start question
why is cooking in oil or fat considered dry heating ?
Oil is dry heat because oil contains no water . Wine does . The " moist " in moist heat really means water . In moist heat cooking , water acts as a solvent and actually dissolves much of the solid matter in the food - hence the reason why steaming and boiling tend to make food rather soft or even soggy . Oil , on the other hand , is very rarely a solvent . There are certain food compounds that are fat-soluble , but most are water-soluble and oil , being <URL> , actually blocks any contact with water , thus preventing any dissolution , and generally making the food crispier as well as promoting the <URL> ( which can only occur with dry heat , due to the low boiling point of water ) . It may seem counterintuitive , but oil is n't wet . It just looks that way .
While yes it can be done , I would n't choose to do it over another technique unless that was my only option or I just needed some chicken cooked quickly for a recipe where it is used in the cooked form and will have a lot of other flavors added ( chicken salad ) . Remember that a lot of flavor is due to browning and cooking in the microwave eliminates those flavors . At least with poaching , if the liquid is REALLY well seasoned you 'll still impart flavor . Any cooking technique can lead to tough and dry meat , including poaching where it 's being cooked submerged in hot liquid . Regardless of the technique , if the proteins heat too hot and too quickly they will constrict quickly and squeeze out the juices . The result will be tough , dry , saw-dusty chicken or other protein . This is the same thing that happens when scrambled eggs are rubbery ... cooked too long over too high of heat . The proteins act like sponges that are being wrung out . Personally I think you have much less control over meat cooked in a microwave because the cooking occurs from the inside outward and the residual heat continues to build more intensely than if it was cooked in a saute pan or on a grill . Is this something that professionals do ? No . Microwaves in a professional kitchen are mainly used for melting butter , chocolate , reheating things quickly ... much the same as I recommend people do at home . We do not use them for " cooking " . Although I do use it for sweating onions if that 's the only thing I 'd be dirtying a pan for ... put the onions in a bowl with a little butter , cover and nuke for about a minute until tender .
Well , this is a common confusion between " sour " and " bitter " . The better your olive oil is , the lower its acid value - extra virgin olive oil has the lowest acid value , it is pressed in ways that reduce contact with atmospheric oxygen . Contact with oxygen increases the acid value of olive oil . Whizzing olive oil in a blender aerates it , and the resultant oxidation increases the acid value , ie it gets more acidic and tastes " sourer " . Lots of people can discern the change , but they do n't use the right word to express it ...
Yes . The important fat is the one the starch first goes into . The higher temperature reached by fats ( as compared to water or milk ) helps cook the flour , creating flavors . The liquid added later dilutes the mixture into a sauce . The liquid 's fats are not as crucial for the sauce 's thickness as the liquid 's proteins . I think of the cooked butter-flour mixture as a thickner that can be added to milk , broths , and even a saucy dish . The roux thickens way better than just a slurry of flour and a cold liquid . Jack Lang has written <URL> and the science is summarized in chapter 4 of <URL>
who determines that an item should be classified as this You do . There is no official list of delicacies . No authority on deciding what food is tasty . If , to you , lavender chocolate is a delicacy , then you can say so . Others will say that it is n't , that it tastes like soap and , and they ca n't bring themselves to eat it . Saying " I like bacon " is just a personal statement about your preferences . Saying " Bacon is a delicacy " is a personal statement which carries a bit more information , namely that you find bacon tasty , but also consider it a luxury food item , as opposed to an everyday food ( although this second semantic distinction is somewhat lost nowadays ) . As tastes tend to be shared within a culture , you will probably find that the people around you tend to agree somewhat on what is a delicacy , although it 's not a complete overlap . This can appear as if there a universal agreement on what is a delicacy . And I do n't doubt that somebody , somewhere has compiled something they call a list of delicacies , the same way that a movie fan will compile a list of " really funny comedies " . Both have equally little validity - what is funny to that person will not always be funny to you , even though there will be a correlation if you grew up in the same culture .
Any number of things can go wrong . Is your flesh cut correctly , that is , against the grain ? Hint : if you see a string , it 's cut with the grain and will affect tenderness . Has your flesh properly aged ? Enzymes in the meat dissolve the tissue , making it naturally tender . 21 Days is recommended . You marinade too long . 15-30 minutes is <URL> for your cuts . You cook the meat too long . A thin slice should be fried on high heat for a short time . Restaurants get better meat . Fact of life . Edit : Basic sauté method . Heat the pan . The pan is hot when a drop of water becomes steam instantly . Add some oil and heat it . It should become very hot very quick . Look for wrinkles on the surface . Add the meat . When you see a drop of ' blood ' ( that 's plasma ) flip the meat . Retire the meat . [ Optional ] Add cold liquid to pan ( could be the marinade ) , clean the bottom of the pan . Lower the heat and make a pan sauce . Add the meat to the sauce for a minute and serve .
Well in Chinese cooking we use a wide variety actually . Typically speaking ... Medium or Long Grain Rice White Rice Fried Rice Sweet Rice or Glutinous Rice Sticky Rice ( You commonly see this at Dim Sum places in the sticky rice dishes wrapped in lotus leaves , among other places . ) There are others of course , but those are the common ones you 'll find since you were asking about Chinese Takeout . The shorter the grain , the more " sticky " it will be . However , that does n't mean that long grain rice should come out grainy either . I suppose different restaurants will do it differently , around here they generally use long grain rice for " white rice " . This is how my mother taught me to make rice : Wash Rice a few times till there is n't any more murkiness . Add water till it reaches your first knuckle on your pointer finger when the tip is just barely touching the rice ( should generally work for any amount of rice ) . Bring to boil , turn to simmer . Check back in 10 to 15 minutes If the water is mostly gone , and it is n't at the texture you like , you can always add a bit more water . Let it sit for a few minutes after the heat is off . In China , you 'll find all different grains . I 've seen both short and long grains , and have seen plain white , long grain rice served as well .
Several sources as <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> practically insist that you salt steaks before cooking them . I do n't think McGee experiments with or discusses exactly when to season/salt a steak in his books , but <URL> that he is also in favour of pre-salting . The fact that so many people seem to prefer this technique would seem to indicate that there 's at least some merit to it , even if the science is n't well-understood . All of the arguments I 've heard against salting steak ( or beef in general ) before cooking seem to be <URL> in nature . When pressed for an explanation , many of these people claim that the salt draws out moisture which will subsequently dry out the cut . In practice , the amount of moisture it draws out is practically negligible unless you actually cure it , which means using lots of salt and letting it sit that way for a long time . I do n't know anybody that does this . Well , <URL> ( warning : do not follow the advice on that page unless you are fully prepared to ruin a perfectly good steak ) . When pressed , most of these people ( including Anita Lo , above ) say that the water it draws out to the surface will inhibit the <URL> . This is true - the presence of water does inhibit the Maillard reaction and any significant quantity of water will give you a steamed gray steak instead of a delicious seared brown one . But the key word here is significant . No reasonable amount of seasoning will draw out so much moisture that you actually end up with a puddle of boiling water underneath the steak , and even if it did , you would simply pat the steak dry before searing it . You do pat your steaks dry , do n't you ? Also note that this applies to dry seasoning . When marinating a cut of beef it is another story entirely . Salt in a marinade really does create brining and that will tend to make the meat juicier . When meat brines , it absorbs extra moisture - the meat still loses moisture when cooked but the added moisture from the brine helps to offset it ( this , again , is all in McGee ) . A saline solution also dissolves a portion of the tougher proteins in the meat , resulting in a more tender result . Salt is a great thing to have in a marinade , which is why some of the simplest of marinades - soy or teriyaki sauce - are so effective . Just , again , make sure to pat that beef dry before pan-searing it if you want to get any sort of browning going on . Anecdotally - for what little that 's worth - I find that there 's very little difference in tenderness whether seasoning with salt briefly before or shortly after cooking ( before resting ) . I 've done both and I honestly do n't think I could identify which was which in a blind test , except perhaps for the consistency of the " crust " that forms when you really pile on the salt - this is a favourable result for many , and I 'll often do this if I 'm in the mood . But all in all , the scientific data on this subject is scant ; the results are very inconclusive . And it just does n't matter that much ; the debaters seem to put entirely too much emphasis on this point when there are far more important factors in preparing a great steak or roast , such as additional seasonings , what it 's seared in , temperature and heat distribution of the pan , and let 's not forget the cut and grade of meat . These things have profound effects on the final result , and if I were obsessive about beef to a fault , then I would concentrate my efforts more on finding better quality ingredients and equipment rather than fussing over the salt issue .
To prevent sticking , your pan surface should be around 150 to 160 ° C . The farther away you move from that ( higher or lower temperature ) , the more likely that your food will stick . So the temperature is very important , but without knowing how you are cooking , I ca n't tell you if you need more or less heat . If you have a layer of food which sticks , but has n't burned , scratch it with a spatula and stir or turn . If it is burned , remove from the heat , scoop the food above the burned layer , and , if not yet ready , continue cooking in another pan . Be careful , because if you include flakes of burned food , your whole meal will taste burned .
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
Adding oil or butter makes scrambled eggs more creamy by giving the egg protein something to hold onto and not curl as tight . The ideal formula for scrambled eggs is one extra yolk for every 4 eggs plus a little fat . I did n't like scrambled eggs until I tried this formula and it 's awesome . Credit goes to either Jack Bishop ( Cooks Illustrated ) and/or Nathan Myhrvold ( Modernist Cuisine ) unfortunately I ca n't remember which of the two clever gents I heard it from .
Not a lot , bacon is basically brined and smoked pork ( the process/recipe depends on where you live ) Fat does not actually change in flavour as much as the flesh does when smoked " Rendered fat " is just the fat that has run off when heating meat . It should be pure fat , with all the impurity left behind , or skimmed off Depending on where you live , lard is either just pork fat , or a common word for animal fat In Asian cooking if it specifies pork fat I would use that . Most Schezuan recipes are not smokey flavour based , so it may be noticeable , and appear unusual
Cocoa nibs are the result of fermenting the seeds from the cocoa fruit ( the size of a large grapefruit ) , and then roasting the whole cocoa beans , and then de-shelling them The de-shelling process tends to gently crack the contents into large pieces . Unlike other seeds and nuts this is acceptable as the product is going to be finely ground anyway You can also buy " raw cocoa nibs " , which are fermented , de-shelled , but not roasted . These have a different taste , and do not make good chocolate Roasted or not they taste interesting and are useful as a whole flavour item in salads , baking , drinks etc. . They are very high in fat so use with caution . The fat also has a very low melting point , so will make any warm liquid dish look oily They are not to everyone 's taste , unlike chocolate compound :-) In both these case the beans have been fermented on the ground for a few weeks . Non-fermented cocoa beans are not very nice ( I have n't ever had any though ) . From what I understand they compare to fermented beans like non-pickled olives are too pickled olives : - / Roasted cocoa bean nibs , and roasted cocoa beans Non-roasted cocoa bean nibs
One of my favorite topics , having grown up close to two apple orchards ... Most likely , by " quick-cooking , " the recipe intends you to use a pie or sauce apple , i.e. one that softens readily with heat . Sauce apples . Use these for a pie if you like VERY soft pie contents . Personally , I prefer applesauce that has some chunks in it , so I do n't use " sauce apples " for sauce ; however , the standard is to list for sauce those apples that practically dissolve ( like McIntosh ) . Pie apples . An apple listed for pie is typically one that retains its shape but softens well ( like Cortland , Mutsu , Empire , Jonagold , or Fuji ) . Consider the taste . Some apples ( Gala , for example ) lose a lot of flavor when cooked , and are best for eating raw . Others gain tremendous flavor when cooked ( Empire ) . Which apple to use is certainly a matter of preference . Some people like their pie apples to remain quite firm ( using , say , Granny Smith ) , while others like them to be VERY soft ( and thus use a " sauce " apple ) . Here 's some apple lists/charts ... I 'd say look up the varieties readily available to you , and see which ones are listed for sauces or pies . <URL> <URL> Look up the website for your local orchard - they may link to a usage chart for the apples they grow !
" Commonly used " depends mostly on the culture , I 'd assume . There 's a lot of different oils , so I 've organized by use rather than try for a complete list . Some of the ones that you might find in a " typical American " foodie 's kitchen include : For frying : something with a high smoke point : peanut , sunflower , soy , extra light olive oil For baking ( muffins &amp; cakes ) : something with a mild flavor : corn , canola , " vegetable " , soy For baking ( biscuits &amp; pastry , or greasing a pan ) something solid at room temp : butter , shortening , lard For general pan cooking : olive oil ( any kind ) , butter , anything from the " baking ( muffins ) " list . update : this assumes sautéing heat or lower ; see ' frying ' for higher heat applications . For salad dressing : any nut oil , mild oil , or virgin / extra virgin olive oil For sauces : Butter . For finishing : something flavorful to drizzle over at the last second ... odds are , it 's extra virgin olive oil , but possibly sesame or a nut oil . Now , there 's regional differences -- in the south , it 's pretty common to save your bacon grease for cooking and to use shortening for frying . Lard 's still popular in hispanic ( and likely other ) cuisine , schmaltz ( rendered poultry fat ) is used in both Jewish and French cooking . Ghee ( similar to clarified butter ) , is used Indian cuisine ... and the list goes on . If you 're looking for a ' must keep on hand ' list -- a mild oil , extra virgin olive oil and butter will get you through most anything . Add shortening if you like baking , and sesame oil if you like to cook asian food , and you 'll be prepared for most anything .
It is due to a combination of several factor , depending on how the particular sausage was made : Dry cured sausages contain <URL> , a mixture of regular salt and sodium nitrate ( which breaks down into sodium nitrite ) , which prevents the growth of <URL> while the sausage cures . Meat for dry cures sausage is also often frozen to specific temperatures for prescribed periods of time to kill any <URL> which may be present . As the sausage cures , it becomes too dry and concentrated in salt to foster pathogens , as well as too acidic from the action of friendly bacteria , and thus is relatively shelf stable . It may also simply have acid ingredients as part of the initial recipe . Modern cured sausages may also be subjected to irradiation , cooking , or another " kill step " to satisfy the needs of regulatory agencies , according to the <URL> . See also : <URL> <URL>
I would think this is happening because your cream is just about to turn sour . As cream ages , lactic acid builds up in it . The acidity in your coffee is enough at that point to push the cream over the edge to curdling . Try newer cream or a very low-acid coffee with old cream and you should be OK .
Blah ... this is getting to be a bit long for a comment , so I might as well reformat &amp; expand more , even though it might not be an appropriate answer . ( and I should note that this is mostly from memory as I got an engineering degree ~ 20 years ago ) Are you asking about the physics of what ' crunchy ' is ? It 's effectively stiff , brittle things . When you 're dealing with strength of materials , you 're looking at how much energy something can absorb before it fails . Strain is a measure of how much something deforms as it 's being loaded . Items that can take a high load ( force applied ) without deforming are considered stiff . ( stiffness = force / deformation ) Brittle is a characterization of how it fails -- something that deforms plastically ( stretches and wo n't go back to the original shape once the load is removed ) can become weaker as more force is applied , but still keep resisting . Think of something like taffy . Brittle failures , however , are almost explosive -- it just breaks suddenly . Think of a concrete block being crushed -- you load it and it looks like nothing 's happening , but suddenly bits of it shoot off and you 're left with a pile of rubble . Why things are crunchy is another issue entirely -- because there 's lots of different structures that can result in " crunchy " . Crunchy baked goods are more like a wooden truss bridge . Wood can handle a lot of force without breaking , but once once member goes , the truss loses strength and is ripped apart , and it suddenly fails . There 's often debris along the breakage because of how the item rips itself apart internally . ( although we typically call them ' crumbs ' not ' rubble ' when talking about this kind of food ) . For these foods , water will typically soften the structure making it so they ca n't support much load -- making them not stiff , and thus not crunchy . Moist things like apples , lettuce and carrots are often crunchy , but it 's a bit different . It 's more like bubble wrap . Cells are effectively a bunch of tiny water balloons bound tightly together . As we apply pressure , they pop . ( although they 're so tightly packed together that unlike a single water balloon , it does n't have space to deform ) . In this case , we do n't see crumbs as much as the moisture from the cells breaking . If the cells are n't full , then we consider it to be mushy ... maybe even chewy if we dry it far enough ... if the cells do n't stay bound together well , then it 's mealy -- it crumbles easily , rather than giving us that resistance before it fails explosively . So anyway ... if you want crunchy without sugar and fat ... have some celery . If you 're okay with a bit of sugar , then carrots . If a bit of fat , then crackers ( but not ritz or really buttery ones ) .
In general lard can always be substituted for butter , but you will not get the same flavour , obviously . Lard is perhaps a bit more ' savoury ' than butter , so it may be worth trying a pie out just to see if it works with a sweet filling . You should be able to convert straight from butter to lard . Another alternative is vegetable shortening , which you can use in all kinds of baking .
There are several options : wrap jerky in paper napkins/towels before putting in the baggie put jerky in a paper bag and then in a plastic one put some uncooked rice , as Optionparty has mentioned The method you choose also depends on how long it takes the mail to be delivered . Rice is the most long-lasting way , but it will also add the most weight to the package . Paper bags and towels are equally effective , but they wo n't do for longer than a few days . Whichever you do , make sure the baggie is well closed to prevent any moisture from outside getting in .
end question
start question
How do I make vanilla sauce without air bubbles ?
You could fold with a heat-safe silicone spatula , that will let you reach the whole surface of the pan so you do n't get scorching , without introducing so many bubbles . Or if you happen to have a vacuum machine , put your sauce in a bag after you make it and vacuum out all of the air . Voila , bubbles gone .
Peanut butter is just ground roasted peanuts essentially . The american style peanut butter tends to be sweetened , as well as having extra oil and salt . But they are only slight flavour/texture enhancers ( not that I think sugar enhances it , UK peanut butter is unsweetened usually ) . Satay sauces are essentially just peanut butter sauces , roast some peanuts , grind them , then add to some lightly fried shallots and garlic , with chilli , soy sauce , lemon juice , salt , sugar and if you want it authentic probably some nam pla ( fish sauce ) , or blachan ( shrimp paste ) , all of the above to taste . Thin with water and reduce to the consistency you desire .
Typically garlic is used . If you prefer onions and garlic , go ahead but it 's typically cucumber , yogurt , dill , garlic , lemon juice or vinegar , olive oil , salt , pepper , and sometimes sour cream .
Mayo that splits is typically from one of two things : Insufficient water Insufficient mixing leading to large droplets ( It 's hardly ever insufficient emulsifier , as one yolk can do many cups of mayo . ) The lack of mixing can happen fairly easily with a whisk , but it wo n't happen if you 're using a food processor , blender , or immersion blender . You 're probably normally making mayo that is on the border of insufficient water , so it 's fairly easy to get it to break . When you added more water , the emulsion actually became more stable . That explains why you ca n't get it to break , I have a few suggestions on how to fix : Freeze it . It should break upon thawing . If hand-mixed , use an immersion blender on it . That should thicken a little , by better mixing . ( Assuming you 're not using extra virgin olive oil , which should not be blended ) I 'm sure there are some thickeners that could be added , but I 've never tried thickening mayo like this . Keep in mind that some flavors are fat soluble , some are water soluble , so if you discard part of the water , you may be changing the flavor balance .
If the problem you 're having is that it is too watery ( I assume that 's what you mean by " too thin " ) , there might be two causes : The recipe you linked to calls for a sizable amount of stock/broth , relative to the wine . It might be assuming that you have something closer to homemade stock , which has a high concentration of gelatin , as opposed to store-brought " broth " , which is more like meat-flavoured juice . You might not have reduced it enough . A " thin layer " could mean anything , but it 's not thickness you 're concerned about , it 's viscosity . When the sauce has been reduced enough , it should have the consistency of ... sauce . As in thick , sticky , and slow-moving . If it still looks and pours like water , it 's not reduced enough . On the subject of taste , there 's also the question of which wine you use . The wine sauce is going to taste like the wine ( stronger , actually ) , which is one of the reasons why chefs will tell you not to cook with any wine that you would n't drink . It 's pretty easy to make a reduction - just continue to let water boil off until it turns into the consistency you want . If you overdo it , you can always add a little extra wine to compensate . As noted in the comment clarification - if you 're simmering at a reasonable temperature , expect to wait at least an hour , and for no less than half the water to evaporate .
I mostly agree with GdD 's answer , but I 'll add a couple more comments . This may be an obvious answer , but I 'd generally follow the recommendation on the specific bottle . Some sauces will clearly state " refrigerate after opening , " and others wo n't . The Frank 's FAQ <URL> is an example of these sorts of instructions : two specific products recommend refrigeration , but in other cases for Frank 's hot sauces it is n't required ( " but doing so will keep the product fresher for a longer period of time " ) . I 've also seen an occasional product that said refrigeration " recommended " or something on the package . I 'd generally assume that if a manufacturer bothers to say something about refrigeration , it 's a good idea to do it . Sometimes it may be for food safety , but in other cases it may just be a product with ingredients that will lose flavor or degrade rapidly at room temperature . Most hot sauces wo n't degrade noticeably at room temperature even over a period of several months , and many will be stable for a couple years . Others will change flavors slowly over time at room temperature , but not necessarily in a negative way . ( Some sauces are deliberately " aged " or fermented at room temperature for periods from a week to several years , and sometimes these processes will continue to change the product even after it is bottled . Some sauces will undergo natural browning reactions at room temperature as well , which can alter flavor . I know some people who actually prefer hot sauce this way , though I 'm personally skeptical . ) If there 's a " best before " date on your sauce and no instruction to refrigerate , you can probably assume the sauce is supposed to maintain quality at least that long without refrigeration . However , that does n't guarantee that it will stay exactly the same over that period . As GdD said , refrigeration will almost always keep the sauce more stable .
Breathe through your mouth . The tear-causing chemicals in onions are absorbed through the nasal mucous membrane . By breathing through your mouth , they do n't get much contact with the fumes and wo n't absorb nearly as much .
Worcestershire sauce is fairly sweet , it 's the sugar that 's blackening . There 's nothing you can do about it - if you add it to your pan it 's going to char . The solution is not to put it in the pan , but put it on afterwards or mix it in with the meat before making patties . You 'll get a better result that way as well , you 're destroying the flavor of the worcestershire sauce by charring it in the pan like that .
You 've pretty much answered your own question . Put the PB in a blender , drizzle in a little peanut oil , blitz and season to taste with salt and a little sugar if you want it . I 'd add them all slowly : you can always add , you ca n't take away .
There are noted resources for flavor pairing , many of which you can find on this site . Check out <URL> . You 'll find : <URL> <URL> , including suggestions for <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( here 's a start for your <URL> ) <URL> <URL> For your specific question of what goes well with citrus rind , you already know chocolate is a good match and that you are putting the sauce on brownies . Nuts in your brownies will be a good match too , especially pecans . Caraway , thyme , cardamom , or black pepper might add an unexpected note with orange . Rosemary is a very nice match for lemon . I recently made cookies using orange zest and black pepper that came out quite well . If you want the citrus flavor to dominate I would leave out the berries . Otherwise I 'd definitely use the raspberries , which go well with citrus . The bluberries would be fine , but I would n't consider them your best choice .
Blah ... this is getting to be a bit long for a comment , so I might as well reformat &amp; expand more , even though it might not be an appropriate answer . ( and I should note that this is mostly from memory as I got an engineering degree ~ 20 years ago ) Are you asking about the physics of what ' crunchy ' is ? It 's effectively stiff , brittle things . When you 're dealing with strength of materials , you 're looking at how much energy something can absorb before it fails . Strain is a measure of how much something deforms as it 's being loaded . Items that can take a high load ( force applied ) without deforming are considered stiff . ( stiffness = force / deformation ) Brittle is a characterization of how it fails -- something that deforms plastically ( stretches and wo n't go back to the original shape once the load is removed ) can become weaker as more force is applied , but still keep resisting . Think of something like taffy . Brittle failures , however , are almost explosive -- it just breaks suddenly . Think of a concrete block being crushed -- you load it and it looks like nothing 's happening , but suddenly bits of it shoot off and you 're left with a pile of rubble . Why things are crunchy is another issue entirely -- because there 's lots of different structures that can result in " crunchy " . Crunchy baked goods are more like a wooden truss bridge . Wood can handle a lot of force without breaking , but once once member goes , the truss loses strength and is ripped apart , and it suddenly fails . There 's often debris along the breakage because of how the item rips itself apart internally . ( although we typically call them ' crumbs ' not ' rubble ' when talking about this kind of food ) . For these foods , water will typically soften the structure making it so they ca n't support much load -- making them not stiff , and thus not crunchy . Moist things like apples , lettuce and carrots are often crunchy , but it 's a bit different . It 's more like bubble wrap . Cells are effectively a bunch of tiny water balloons bound tightly together . As we apply pressure , they pop . ( although they 're so tightly packed together that unlike a single water balloon , it does n't have space to deform ) . In this case , we do n't see crumbs as much as the moisture from the cells breaking . If the cells are n't full , then we consider it to be mushy ... maybe even chewy if we dry it far enough ... if the cells do n't stay bound together well , then it 's mealy -- it crumbles easily , rather than giving us that resistance before it fails explosively . So anyway ... if you want crunchy without sugar and fat ... have some celery . If you 're okay with a bit of sugar , then carrots . If a bit of fat , then crackers ( but not ritz or really buttery ones ) .
A lot depends on what kind of cheese you are making . I will assume that you are making a standard , medium-firm , rennet-set cheese . I have had the most success adding seasonings and herbs with the salt . That is - after the curd has set , been cut , and drained but before it has been pressed at all . Work in the salt and any other flavors before placing the curd in the mold . I imagine any herb or spice would work - it depends what flavor you want . I have used basil when I had a bumper crop . I have also used dried peppers . As to dry or fresh - either would work . As with anything if you use dry then use a lot less . I prefer fresh because it is more tender . Other cheeses might be a little different but as a rule of thumb adding with the salt should work . Mozzarella seems like it would be trickier because the kneading of the curd would change things .
Buy whole bean coffee ( preferably freshly roasted , maybe even from a local roaster ) . Start with a rough grind . Use a burr grinder to achieve a more consistent grind . If the grinder has a french press or coarse setting use that , else experiment with it to find a consistency that produces coffee you like . Take out your plunger and place 1 T of grounds per 4 oz ( 115 g ) of coffee that you are making . Again you can experiment with the amount of coffee you put in to get something that suits you taste . Use 4 oz of water per T of grounds that you put in the press . Fill your press with water no more than about 1 " ( 25 mm ) below the spout ( if you have a smaller press you go a bit higher , but not too much or you 'll spill ) . The water temp recommended is ~ 200 ° F ( 95 ° C ) ( just short of boiling . Stir gently , if you have a large pot use a chopstick . If you have a small pot a plastic spoon or coffee stirrer will work . Put the plunger in the coffee and press down slightly so all of the grounds are below the water level , this will press out some of the air in the grounds and also ensure even wetting . Wait ~ 4 minutes ( again , experiment here to determine best flavour ) . Press your pot slowly and gently . If you encounter too much resistance wait a moment ( or even pull back on the press a bit ) and then continue ( too much resistance can indicate too fine a grind , try a larger grind next time ) . When your plunger is all the way down wait a few moments and then pour . Waiting a bit allows some of the sediment to settle out of the coffee so you get less in your coffee cup . Some sediment is normal and provides body , but too much can be a turnoff . If you will not be drinking all of the coffee you made , decant it into a different pot so that it does not continue to steep in the grounds . While there is some <URL> here . A lot of what you do is informed by your own tastes and preferences . Experiment with it and see what you like . Spend some time deciding what kind of coffee , how long it steeps , how fine a grind you need and even how much sediment you like .
My wife loves bacon that 's cooked to the cusp of burning , so I 've got a good knowledge of the properties of bacon on that fine line . It 's so brittle , you can powder it very easily . I myself would probably just stick it in a plastic bag , and whack it a few times with a pan , but I do n't see any reason why you could n't put it in the blender . I have a nice mortar and pestle I use for powdering things , but that 's probably overkill in this case .
Another option is to make your popcorn in a pot using butter as the oil for the bottom . I find that if you toast the unpopped popcorn kernels in the butter , it gives a bit of a butter flavor to the entire pot -- less than if you were to put butter on the top , but plenty for me .
I would say there are 2 problems here : the lack of water , and the constant stirring . Try adding 1/4 cup of water to the sugar - this should stop it catching and burning . You should avoid stirring caramelising sugar because you run the risk of flicking bits of it onto the side of the pan . These isolated bits cook faster and thus burn , then drop into the rest of the sugar . Result : bitter caramel . Stirring also promotes crystallisation , which is not what you want for a smooth sauce . If you have to stir it , do it slowly , carefully , and infrequently - only as much as necessary to distribute the water evenly through the sugar . I would also use a sugar or probe thermometer to ensure you 're not over-cooking the sugar - get it to 350ºF , then take it off heat . This will take 6-8 minutes , and it will be a dark amber colour . Let it stand for 1 minute before whisking in your cream ( I normally gently heat the cream beforehand by the way , and add a teaspoon of sea salt to it , because salted caramel is effing gorgeous ) .
In general , it is a good idea to go light on spices when trying a new recipe , if you 're not intimately familiar with the flavor and spice combinations in question . It 's a great deal easier to add spice later than it is to mask it once you 've added too much . Assuming you are reading this because you did n't do that , and have now ended up with a sauce that 's far too spicy , then read on . The pertinent question here is where is the spiciness coming from ? There are actually several kinds of compounds that can produce that general aroma and/or sensation . In most dishes they 'll tend to fall loosely into one or more of the following : <URL> , which is the active alkaloid in black pepper . This has poor solubility in water , however , it has better solubility in alcohol . If you can incorporate wine or better yet , brandy or vodka or some other strong alcohol , this can go a long way toward reducing the heat from pepper . <URL> , the heat-producing compound in most types of hot peppers , is the highest on the <URL> ; extremely piquant and can produce a " burning " sensation in very small quantities . It is also poorly soluble in water , but is far more soluble in fat , especially oils . Adding some olive oil or a good quantity of butter to your recipe is a good bet for reducing capsaicin/capsicum heat . Garlic , onion , and other members of the <URL> family put out a volatile sulfur compound called <URL> . Although this is not " spicy " in the same sense as pepper , many people perceive it as such . Like piperine , it is more soluble in alcohol than in water . However , and here 's the catch : That allicin breaks down into various <URL> when cooked , and those polysulfides are fat soluble . So if you 're trying to mask a strong garlic or onion flavour , it 's best if you can add alcohol and fat to cover all your bases . If you 've added too much Ginger - another ingredient often perceived as spicy - then you 're dealing with <URL> and <URL> , the latter of which pack a much bigger punch . One of the things you can actually do with ginger is <URL> which converts those into much milder <URL> . In other words , add some water to the sauce and then boil it to reduce the sauce again - you 'll lose some flavour but in the process you 'll break down the ginger spice . Alternatively ( for ginger ) , all of the above compounds are alkali soluble , so if you add a buffering agent - say , <URL> ( additive E331 ) , it will improve the solubility a great deal . If , like most people , you do n't happen to keep food additives in your kitchen , you can try using something like baking soda , but too much of that will completely ruin the taste , so be careful . In fact , do n't add too much of any buffer because the acidity of most sauces is an integral part of their flavor . I think that about covers it for common " spicy stuff " that goes in sauces . If you want to fix a dish that 's too spicy , you need to know where the spice is coming from and choose what 's most appropriate for that particular sauce . You can also try to mask or balance the spice with something sweet , for example roasted vegetables or plain old sugar . That will not eliminate the heat at all , but does seem to make it more tolerable for many .
I use a potato peeler to peel it . I cut off the top then peel down in strips . with a good peeler you can save most of the flesh this way . I use a <URL> .
There are a few factors that could effect this : 1 ) How the meat is cooked and how lean or fatty it is . If you overcook the meat ( although I doubt that you would ! ) or if it 's leaner or fattier . If its a fattier meat add say an extra 2 tbsps or so of sauce and if it 's leaner ( or overcooked ) I would add a tbsp or so less of sauce . 2 ) The viscosity and composition of the sauce . If it 's a white wine sauce ( thinner , less rich ) you would want to add more , however if it 's a hollondaise sauce ( thicker , richer ) you may want less . 3 ) Opinion , some people like more sauce , some people like less . It may depend on the type of sauce which you may want more or less of . Saying this I would say around 4 tbsp of sauce , then account for the additions and your own personal preference . Any more sauce and it may become swamped , any less and you will not have enough sauce to taste or keep the meat moist . It is a very subjective subject so do keep that in mind .
Are you absolutely certain that the " grittiness " is caused by the cheese not melting , and not because the sauce is curdling ? If you cook it too long or too fast , that is what will happen . If you must use the Kraft stuff ( personally , I think it has no flavour compared to real Reggiano ) , try melting the cheese on low heat in a very small amount of cream first , before you add it to the main sauce pan . If it 's still gritty , either it 's curdling or you need to use a better cheese .
end question
start question
Why use gloves when handling food ?
I am afraid that gloves make things worse . Even with proper training , people who wear gloves seem to be more complacent that those who do not wear gloves . I have seen people handle dollar bills then turn around and touch my food with the same gloves on . Disgusting , and I refuse the food , and when I tell them why , they say the gloves are to protect me ... what the F ever . Then I ask them how that glove protects me From The germs on those dollars you just touched ? I find its better to enforce good hand washing habits than it is to allow gloves to be used at all . When you are wearing gloves , you do n't even wipe your hand on a towel , without gloves your hands kinda start to tell you they need to be washed if you 've been lax .
I would do it the other way round , I 'd fry the sausages first , then add the veg . This has a few benefits as I see it : - The sausages will brown more evenly , purely aesthetic but some people will think they are not cooked if they are not brown . You 'll get the oil out of the sausages so you 'll have a better idea of how much oil to add when you add the veg , if any . The veg will sweat down in the sausage oil which is likely to be much nicer than the other oil You can cook the sausages on a really low heat to start with so that they really get sticky and caramelised , then when you add the veg back in you can add a spoon of water/vinegar/stock to deglaze the pan an get that lovely sticky sausage goodness all over your veggies , which will be delicious . You could optionally take the cooked sausages out of the pan and do the veg separately , or keep 'em in there , I 'd probably take them out so I could turn the heat up a bit without having to worry about the sausages . I 'd say that when you do add the veg you want a thin ( 1mm ish ) layer of oil in the pan . Depending on the pan this is probably a tables spoon or 2 . You probably do n't need to scale up as if you are cooking a bigger batch you will probably use a bigger pan , and so a similar depth of oil should suffice . If you are using the same pan , but with a deeper amount of veg , then I would add a little more , but I would make the depth of oil in the pan proportional to the depth of veggies . Remember the golden rule . You can always add , you can never take away . And once the veg start to cook down and the volume decreases then the oil ratio will be higher , so start out with a little less than you think , just enough to coat the veg when tossed in it .
In freezing , it is mostly the bursting of the cell walls as the ice crystals expand . Much like a water balloon holds its shape when it is intact , but becomes flaccid when punctured , so to the cell walls comprising the vegetable . See related , for why a similar thing happens when you cook spinach : <URL> Cooked vegetables are already soft and their metaphorical balloons partially deflated . It is not going to get a lot worse for the freezing . The par cooking is mostly disable enzymes which would change the color of the vegetable to dull olive drab , or negatively affect the flavor . See : <URL>
Baking powder , especially if too great a quantity is used , adds an unpleasant flavor to a baked good . Even in an appropriate quantity it can be noticeable and it certainly does n't do anything to enhance the flavor . Many baked goods traditionally do n't use a chemical leavener at all , but instead rely on technique . Creaming butter and sugar together or whipping egg whites was historically used to make cakes which rose solely based on the bubble network that was created . Yeast , on the other hand , creates a delightful flavor that you associate with your favorite crusty loaf of bread . Yeast can be used not only in making bread but also in some excellent cakes ( <URL> , for example , although many " knock off " recipes cheat here and miss out on the true goodness ) . Yeast also provides a significantly different texture during the rising due to the intentional creation of a gluten network ( usually something you absolutely do n't want in a quick bread or quick cake ) -- you do n't get a crumb with big , airy holes from baking powder or baking soda with an acid . Also , in my experience baking powder lasts six months in the pantry and yeast lasts at least six months in the fridge . The shelf life is not so different . If yeast scares you , you may want to check out some of the proponents of the <URL> technique . For a lot more information on this subject , there is a recent publication that covers all sorts of <URL> .
What you need for the conversion of collagen is a certain amount of energy . It is a complicated process - the melting point is around 70 ° C for the type of collagen contained in beef , but the melting does not happen instantly once the meat reaches 70 ° C . In a pressure cooking , you can apply the same amount of energy in a shorter amount of time . This is not bad , as opposed to slow roasting of collagen-poor meat . In collagen-poor meat , you have two types of protein , which are soft and wet . Under heat , they curdle , becoming tough and dry . The perfect meat is when the first type has curdled ( so the meat is not raw ) but the second has n't , so it still holds juices inside . If you curdle both , your meat gets tough and you ca n't take it apart with your teeth . In collagen-rich meat , you curdle both proteins - the collagen itself is tough and you want to melt it , but this happens long after the meat has curdled . But because the muscle fibers are not clinging to each other , but separated by collagen , you still get tasty meat . For that , you melt the collagen into gelatin , and serve the meat warm , so that the dry fibers are separated by the smooth , juicy melted gelatin . Unlike slow-roasted meat , you do n't have to tear the juiceless fibers apart , and the gelatin makes up for the missing meat juices which were expelled from the cells during curdling . So , in slow-roasted meat you do n't want to cross the temperature limit for curdling a certain protein , this is why you have to apply heat slowly until the center of the meat has cooked , without the outside getting overcooked . In collagen-rich meat , there is no upper limit at which the meat gets non-tasty , so you can push the energy needed for the collagen-to-gelatin conversion quickly into your meat . The pressure cooker can do this better than the normal boiling process .
Well , you 're definitely right . Onions cooked at a high temperature act differently than ones cooked at a low temperature , per " the bible " aka On Food and Cooking . However , it does n't go in to much of an explanation as to why . Probably the most relevant aspects of what is in there are : When onions and their relatives are heated , the various sulfur compounds react with each other and with other substances to produce a range of characteristic flavor molecules . The cooking method , temperature and medium strongly affect the flavor balance . Baking , drying , and microwaving tend to generate trisulfides , the characteristic notes of overcooked cabbage . Cooking at high temperatures in fat produces more volatiles and a stronger flavor than do other techniques . <URL> Since a low temperature produces less volatiles , I assume that the natural sugars of the onion shine through instead . It 's probably also important to understand where the oniony flavor comes from . The spice , as you describe it , is the onions natural defense mechanism . However , it does n't exist defacto in the onion , but is rather the result of a chemical reaction . The onion stores very reactive sulfur in the cell fluid , and a seperate trigger mechanism in a storage vacuole . When you cut / crush / cook / peel the onion , you break the vacuole and the enzyme and sulfur cause a chemical reaction giving off the spice . <URL> &amp; <URL> )
I agree that , in general , other squashes can be substituted for pumpkin . I have tried some different types of squashes but obviously there are many more that I have n't tried . There are definitely differences in flavor - these will obviously change a dish but not ruin it . The biggest differences I have run into are water content and texture . When roasting squash the cooking time might need to be adjusted to obtain a product with the needed consistency . Using pie as an example - I have had to adjust my cooking to avoid a runny pie filling . Obviously in some recipes , such as soup , this wo n't be as important . Some squash , such as spaghetti , have stringy textures that would be odd where smooth pumpkin is expected .
That 'd depend on the exact microbes involved in making it unsafe ( or , since you probably do n't know , the short answer is " no " ) . There are basically two ways microbial growth makes food unsafe : either by the presence of the microbes themselves , or by toxins the microbes create . Sufficiently heating the food will kill enough microbes , so those ones will be taken care of . Unfortunately , some of the toxins are heat stable , and it is n't possible enough to heat the food hot enough to destroy them ( without turning the food to charcoal ) . The FDA 's <URL> gives details about specific pathogens and their heat-stable and heat-labile toxins .
It really does depend on the recipe . Egg yolks have some protein but a lot of fat which adds flavor and makes baked goods more tender and moist . Whites are just protein which adds structure and has a drying effect . If the particular recipe is depending on the eggs for the binding power of their protein you may not get enough by substituting just yolks . Remember that the volume of the yolks is less than whole eggs so you may see better success substituting two whole eggs with three yolks . Some cakes will handle the reduced protein . White and yellow cakes will be ok . Pound cakes will also be fine and in fact some recipes call for only yolks . Expect your cake to be a little denser , softer , and tastier . Any kind of sponge or angel food cake wo n't work because they rely wholly on the protein from the whites . Soft , rich breads will also benefit from the added fat . The breads will derive their structure from the gluten in their flour . Cinnamon rolls and rich doughnuts come to mind . A local doughnut shop is famous for the yellow color which comes from using fresh yolks . <URL> Yolks can be used in many recipes that call for whole eggs . Look for recipes that will benefit from all the added fat . Anything custard-like , where the eggs are mixed with milk , will work very well - even better than with whole eggs in fact . Examples are custard , flan , puddings , french toast , etc. . Given the season you might consider a custard-based ice cream .
The white , pithy part is a source of the bitterness . Either peel more thoroughly , or trim off with a knife . The pulp of some oranges ( of the navel variety ) , can turn bitter when exposed to air . <URL>
Your microwave is n't exactly cooking your food from the inside out . Instead , what is happening is that some parts of your food that happen to be on the interior are being heated faster than those parts of the exterior that you observe . This sort of uneven heating is intrinsic with how microwaves work . Microwave ovens cook unevenly because a pattern of standing waves forms inside the oven chamber , and the pattern creates an array of hotspots throughout the oven 's volume . An operating frequency of 2.45 GHz will produce a wavelength of around 12.25 cm , and the regions of maximum intensity ( hotspots ) will be at half-wave points , or every 6.125 cm , but in a complex 3D pattern From <URL> So , in your microwave the waves happen to be arranged just so the inside of your casserole heats up faster than the outside . In microwave ovens that do not have a rotating carousel , this effect is even more pronounced , although even using a carousel is not a panacea . Many microwave oven recipes often include instructions to rotate and/or stir the food intermittently as a means of distributing the heat more evenly for the same reasons ; changing the position of the food within the oven has the effect of shifting the hotspots around in the food as it cooks . So , my suggestion is to try changing the position of the food in the oven over time , particularly if it 's being heated over several minutes , as that should help it heat more evenly . If you can , it is also a good idea to stir the food intermittently as well . Personally , after the microwave finishes the allotted time , I also will stir and then wait a few minutes before serving to let the hot spots naturally dissipate a bit via <URL> .
What about tofu ? It can be " jerkyfied " pretty easily . For example : <URL>
As someone who uses liquid nitrogen as part of their daily routine ( in a lab ) and who has made liquid nitrogen ice cream on several occasions , my advice would be to not use a plastic container to hold liquid nitrogen unless it 's designed to . Yes , the plastic vessel may become brittle and may fracture . I have seen some materials shatter with extreme violence when frozen with liquid nitrogen ; do not attempt this . Vessels for handling cryogenic liquids are designed especially for the job , and made from materials such as stainless steel , styrofoam , teflon , HDPE or silvered borosilicate glass . Unless you know with certainty that your container is designed to withstand temperatures of -196 & deg ; C ( -321 & deg ; F ) , do not attempt this procedure .
My best recommendation is to taste as you go . Taste the initial product ... raw vegetable , ingredient from the can , bottle , etc. and then continue to taste and sample a dish throughout the cooking process to see how flavors develop/diminish and enhance one another through the cooking process . Learning to season food is a process of educating your palate and developing a " flavor memory " One of the most important factors is to use enough salt . Food that is properly seasoned with salt should n't taste salty but will have a brighter more vibrant flavor of the ingredients that are in the dish . Food must be cooked with salt for this to occur . Food that is seasoned at the table will merely taste salty as the salt does n't have a chance to dissolve and pull the juices out and help them mingle with one another as happens during cooking . The more of the basic flavor profiles that you can incorporate the more lively and flavorful anything will be . Even before cooking you can take a look at a recipe and " disect " its flavor profile by determining which ingredients will add sweetness , sourness , etc. . If you notice that it 's heavy in one direction or another , the flavor profile of the item ( s ) missing will likely improve the dish . Then it 's a matter of deciding what ingredient with that flavor profile would be best to add to that particular dish . Shameless ( but applicable to the question ) plug : If you 're ever in Savannah , GA I offer a class called " Flavor Dynamics " . It is focused entirely around understanding how flavor develops , what affects our perception of flavor , and how to create well rounded flavor in your food .
Most freezers are frost-free , which means that they occasionally cycle above freezing to prevent formation of frost on the walls of the freezer . This makes them easier to maintain but it shortens the storage longevity of the food . This makes products stored in them vulnerable to freezer burn , which is a loss of moisture . It can also cause ice and IQF products like frozen fruits or vegetables to solidify into a single mass . If you have ice cube trays , you may even notice them becoming empty after a few months of sitting unused . Freezer burn is a loss of quality , though , not a health issue . The food is n't spoiling . If you have a " deep freeze " or a non frost-free freezer that you only access occasionally , you can certainly keep foods for nearly indefinite periods of time without worrying as much about freezer burn . You can also reduce the likelihood of freezer burn by following better freezer practices . Resources available <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
If you mean like a potpie or a TV dinner ? Yes you 're fine , go for it . If you 're really worried about it here is the rule . ( been a few years since I took serveSafe ) When reheating foods you want the internal temperature to reach 165 degrees F. ( 74C ) for 15 seconds . In practice ( at home NOT at the restaurant ) just get it nice and hot . Note : Homemade foods generally need to be carefully reheated but not frozen dinners etc. . They cook them pretty good at the factory .
The choice of one onion over another is really going to come down to personal preference based on color and flavor . Red and white onions are usually milder in flavor than yellow onions which is the reason they 're often the choice for hamburgers and sandwiches . Yellow ( sometimes referred to as " Spanish " ) onions tend to have a more pungent flavor . Sweet onions ( Vidalia , Maui , Walla-Walla , Texas 1015 ) develop more sweetness and fewer sulfuric compounds due to the mineral content of the soil that they 're grown in . This is why you can have onion sets ( small bulbs ) from any of these varieties but they wo n't necessarily be sweet ( or as sweet ) because a lot of it has to do with the makeup of the soiling they 're grown in . Two years ago I hosted Jeanne Jones ( syndicated writer of " Cook it Light " column for King Features syndicate and writer of over 33 cookbooks including " Canyon Ranch Spa Cookbook " ) for guest chef cooking classes . If I recall correctly , she said she used primarily white onions because they have a lower sodium content than any other type . Did that " mean black eyed pea salad " recipe happen to come from a certain " Low Country Cooking Class " ? If so , I used it for two reasons : not everyone will have access to Vidalia onions and it provides additional color .
Structure is the main reason a tube pan is used for angel food cake . Angel food cake rises a lot , but does not have much of any gluten network or other means of supporting this structure . The egg whites can hold the air bubbles initially , but will lose them eventually . ( Hence you should not delay baking after the batter is mixed , and you should treat the batter gently , spooning into the pan and taking care to not slam the pan around . ) The tube pan helps because as the batter rises , it can " climb " the pan , sticking to the edges . This is also why angel food cake is left to cool upside-down in the pan for an unusually long time ; it should not be removed from the pan until it is completely set . If it were n't for the tube , the center of the cake would not have anything strong to hold it up , so it would collapse . This is not an issue for cupcakes because they are so small .
Reducing a mixture is simply boiling out water present in the solution . Adding a starch ( either cornstarch or other flours ) does n't remove that water but instead causes the starch to expand and " trap " some of the water . Cornstarch in particular <URL> when there is n't enough moisture in the base mixture , or if there 's too much fat or sugar present , so it 's not suitable for really rich sauces , for example <URL> . It also does n't work well in acidic mixtures like tomato sauce . The worst thing you can do for a cornstarch-thickened mixture is to cook it at a high temperature ( i.e. more than a moderate simmer ) or for an extended period of time . These will expand the starch granules so much that they pop , breaking the cornstarch and causing the sauce to thin again . So , be very careful of cooking temperature when using a cornstarch slurry . I have also found that cornstarch does n't respond very well to cooling and re-heating , so it 's not the best solution if you plan on saving some of the sauce for later use .
As I understand it , it 's down to the flavour you get from frying the rice . However , it does also break down some of the starch which reduces the thickening it can do when the risotto cooks , which might cause a problem . I can attest to the flavour , but I 've not done experiments about thickening . Serious Eats had a good article on the topic though , in which such experiments were described . The solution in that was to wash the rice in the stock , then fry the rice , then add the stock containing all that undamaged free rice starch during cooking , thus giving you toasty flavour and creamy risotto with no questions asked . I have n't tried that , but it seems like a fairly sound idea to me . <URL>
end question
start question
How to store parts of whole chicken for long time ?
When you want to freeze things so that they do n't stick together , you need to freeze them separately and then combine later . So , for example , if you 're freezing blueberries , you can freeze them on a cookie sheet and then combine them in one bag or container . For chicken , I would n't advise freezing the pieces uncovered ( as you do for blueberries ) . Instead , I would package the pieces in containers that only hold one meal 's worth . You can always defrost more than one package if necessary . This could be a plastic container or wrapped individually in plastic wrap or aluminum foil , or even a zippered plastic bag . Any of these would allow you to unwrap individually and defrost .
The party line from <URL> is to : Cut out the stems , wash , and blanche for about 2 minutes Dry Store in freezer bags with as little air as possible They indicate you will get about a year of storage from this method . That being said , the method you propose is well known for herbs , and kale is certainly much heartier than an herb . It should work very well , given that the application is a smoothie and you do n't mind having the kale pureed already . It should keep the kale usable for a year or so as well . So the main issue with the traditional method is , are you willing to blanche your kale ? I know not everyone is . If you use kale for other dishes and have to blend your daily smoothie anyway , you might use the standard method , and store it in daily sized batches , thus giving you the ability to use it for either a smoothie or some other dish .
I ca n't speak specifically to the shelf life of salami , especially considering all of the factors that come into play ( source , type , age , storage , etc. ) , but when dealing with meat in general , you should never eat it if it smells or tastes " off " . Smell is really the most reliable means of determining whether or not meat is still good - far more reliable than the use-by date . It 's unusual for meat to smell or taste sour as a result of foodborne bacteria ; sourness is more likely to be due to rancidity of the fats , which is of course equally dangerous , albeit in a different way . Oxidation is very likely if the meat was not properly wrapped and/or stored in an airtight container . Of course , many people have trouble telling the difference between spoilage due to rancidity and spoilage due to bacteria , and so what you 're perceiving as rancid ( sour ) may really be bacterial spoilage . Either way , if it tastes off , it 's spoiled ; do n't eat it .
There are many dishes where chicken and rice are cooked mixed together in the same pot . Look at Arroz con Pollo for example , it 's an easy classic and there are loads of recipes . There 's also some types of Biryani , Jambalaya , and other traditional recipes from across the world that would work . Chicken pieces and rice cook in about the same time as you say , if you want to get vegetables in there it 's a bit more complicated as you want the vegetables to be cooked , but not overcooked . I 've generally made them separately to put put as a side as it 's more attractive , however large carrot chunks cook about the same time , and you can put in pureed vegetables or even vegetable juice . One my mother makes uses crushed tomatoes instead of water to cook the rice in . As for having the chicken mixed in or on top there 's no right answer , I like to brown the chicken and lay it skin side up on top of the rice as the rice will cook up around the chicken and the visual effect is good when the pot is put on the table . Visuals aside there 's little difference in the method .
Use a boiled cornstarch wash for an in oven glue Egg wash is a great glue , but generally lets go again when heated in the oven . Best used after baking not before
I always store mine in the pantry . I use it frequently enough that sprouting is rarely an issue . If you need it to last longer you can freeze garlic , though I have never needed to . Shelf Life An unbroken bulb of garlic can last 3-5 months in a cool ( 55-60 F ) dark place . Once broken , the remaining cloves last only about 7-10 days . Frozen , you can store garlic 10-12 months . Source : <URL>
Kneading does two things . First it mixes all the ingredients uniformly . You have to do this no matter what , but you only really have to do it enough to mix the ingredients . If you keep kneading beyond the mixing stage , you are applying energy ( which equals heat ) to the yeast which makes it ferment , generating the tiny bubbles which make bread fluffy . The yeast will ferment on its own , but kneading just accelerates that process . Historically , dough was proved ( left in a hot humid place ) for about 18 hours allowing it to rise slowly in order to make bread . In 1961 a process was developed in England called the <URL> . Essentially you work the heck out of the dough with high-speed mixers . The extra few minutes of high energy mixing applies heat to the yeast , which dramatically reduces the fermentation period required , allowing you to make bread much more quickly ... at factory-type speeds . Factories can make bread in a couple of hours instead of having to prepare dough one day and bake it the next .
When I make home made bread , I decide how much I 'm going to eat in the next day or two and leave that out on the breadboard , usually just covered with a tea towel . I usually put the cut side down on the board to help prevent it from drying out . The rest gets pre-sliced , put in a zip-top bag , and stashed in the freezer . A few minutes in the toaster oven , and the bread is good as new . Pre-slicing it allows you to just use what you need instead of thawing the whole loaf . It lasts pretty much indefinitely in the freezer .
Store cocoa powder in a dark , cool , dry place , sealed against vermin . Dark and cool both slow the process by which volatiles ( i.e. , flavor ) degrade . That said , do n't keep it in the fridge or freezer unless sealed airtight , because both types of chill-chests are relatively humid environments . Humidity promotes mold , even on cocoa . By the way , for future reference : When buying cocoa powder , note the manufacturer 's suggested use-by date . Cocoa powder should last about three years , properly stored . If the use-by date is much less than that , look for another container .
Unless you 've got the time and resources to set up your own biology lab , you 're not likely to have much luck raising your own bacterial cultures from scratch . You 'd probably need growth mediums suited to particular strains of bacteria and strict isolation between them to prevent other opportunistic bugs from taking over . If you really , really want to try , you might have better luck asking on <URL> . Fortunately , a lot of pickled-vegetable recipes ( such as <URL> , or <URL> ) do n't bother with an initial culture . This is what 's called a " wild fermentation " , meaning that you 're culturing with whatever bacteria happen to float their way into your fermentation vessel . If the initial culture is present , it 's there to kick-start the process , or to obtain a very specific flavor profile by using a precise blend of bacterial strains . In those cases , you 'll want to buy , because it 's practically impossible to invite only a single strain of bacteria to the party . Even if your kitchen is scrupulously clean , exposing your food to open air also quickly exposes it to bacterial colonists that you ca n't control . Other fermented foods can be started from a purchased culture , or they can be inoculated from a sample of active culture in a purchased food . For example , <URL> as a starter for fermenting your own , and you can cultivate the scoby from a store-bought bottle of kombucha to <URL> . With some care and maintenance , you can make some of these cultures <URL> . The cultures that give sourdough bread its distinctive flavor are sometimes kept this way . If you need a specific starter for your recipe , you 'll just have to pony up and purchase it . Depending on the final product , you might be able to use a different starter and wind up with a similar end product ( see <URL> ) but it would be inadvisable and possibly unsafe to deviate from your directions .
A microwave-safe container should n't be heated significantly by the microwave ( only by conduction from the food it contains ) . So , it should be fine , so long as the food is , and as long as the food does n't exceed its allowable temperature . You can test fairly easily -- put the container , partially filled with some water , in the microwave for a few minutes . Does the container heat up , possibly more so than the water -- especially where its not in contact with the water ? If so , I 'd be reluctant to use it in the microwave for that long . Some containers are microwave safe , but only for heating to maybe 160 ° F or so . A common example is LDPE ( often used for plastic wrap ) . Some ca n't take boiling for more than a short time ( e.g. , HDPE ) . Polypropylene should be fine , even with boiling . Go any hotter ( e.g. , filled with oil , which is probably insane ) and most will fail . If you 're lucky , the container will have a resin ID code on it , LDPE is # 4 , HDPE is # 2 , polypropylene is # 5 . Your microwave may not be fine with 40 minutes of strait microwaving , or with the steam buildup . You should probably check its manual . I assume also you 've read Jay 's comment about converting recipes , and that you 're doing something where 40 minutes wo n't result in charcoal .
Sorry , USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage ( 40 ° F ) . Beyond that and you 're tempting fate a bit . You 're gon na have to eat some humble pie for your wife on this one ( just do n't ask here for the recipe ) . <URL>
As with all raw-meat or sushi dishes , this will never be 100 % safe to eat ; at best we are talking about a calculated food safety risk , with steps taken to mitigate that risk when possible . For this reason , it is CRUCIAL that the chicken be kept at fridge temperature as much as possible . When cutting , use a pre-chilled cutting board if possible , and serve immediately . For extra safety , blanch the chicken to kill surface pathogens , and slice off the cooked exterior . Given the slimy , gelatinous texture of raw chicken , I believe the best results would come from finely dicing the chicken ( small cubes ) or very thinly slicing it . These approaches seem to work well for sushi and tuna tartare , which have similar textures . As with sushi , you need a shaving-sharp knife to get clean cuts . For flavorings , your goals are twofold : add flavor and kill pathogens . An acidic sauce or marinade is obligatory , to reduce the pH below 4 and render it hostile to pathogens . The acidity should also reduce the slight sulfurous notes in raw chicken , by reacting with the sulfur in the molecules and making them less volatile . Taken to an extreme , this could produce a result much like ceviche , where the acid denatures the proteins and produces a texture akin to cooking . Fresh cut , finely-minced garlic is delicious and also hostile to pathogens . Many aromatic herbs also have antimicrobial properties , with fenugreek being a notable standout in this area . There are a couple ways you could develop this into a full dish from there : Do it up like a ceviche : fresh lemon/lime juice , garlic , chili flakes , onions , salt , and maybe a little cilantro or coriander . Go European : white wine vinegar , thyme , rosemary , parsley flakes , garlic , black pepper , salt , and maybe a little olive oil Go sushi ! Marinate it in rice wine vinegar , soy sauce , and spices , and serve it in sushi rolls , accompanied with a LOT of wasabi and pickled ginger . Those condiments help mitigate the food safety risk with their antimicrobial/antiparasite properties . Go sushi part 2 : marinate it as above , but serve alone with a horseradish-based sauce containing lemon . EDIT : Apparently there is a real recipe along these lines . Toriwasa , or chicken sashimi . I found several recipes using wasabi ( horseradish ) , soy sauce , parsley , and sake . The chicken 's exterior is cooked , but the interior remains raw . I should add a couple caveats to this : I have serious doubts about raw chicken as an ingredient , even with the best cooking possible . At best I think it will be edible but not delicious . The problem is that raw chicken is incredibly bland , and where it is n't bland , it has an unpleasant , slightly sulfurous flavor . The texture is somewhat off-putting too . I might be wrong , of course , but I think this is better handled as a theoretical exercise and not an actual dish . If you try any of these ideas and get food poisoning , it 's your own dang fault for eating raw chicken ... you boob .
I do n't think anything will be wrong with that milk . If it 's fresh milk , which I doubt , you should consume it in less than three days . If it 's pasteurized milk , which is much more likely , it 'll be unaffected . Signs of spoilage are a sour smell and sour taste . You should make a habit of always smelling your milk ( food ) before drinking ( eating ) it . If it does n't smell like you 'd expect , taste it . If it does n't taste like you 'd expect , ditch it . Milk is cultivated with lactobacillus , a bacteria that 's beneficial for us . So , even though milk may taste sour , it does n't mean that it 's undrinkable . In Holland , there 's sour-milk ( karnemelk ) , that some people consume ( I do n't like it , myself ) . Under the right circumstances , milk will turn into yogurt , thanks to the lactobacillus ... At any rate , if in doubt , throw it out .
If your chicken burns , the issue is likely not that you cooked it too long , but that you cooked it too hot . How long to cook it depends on the total amount of meat , the size of pieces that it is in ( anything from bite sizes pieces for a stir fry up to an entire chicken ) , and how you 're cooking it - oven , saute pan , braising ... Roasting in the oven or braising in a stew are generally the most ignorable techniques - if you overcook a roast it may dry out , but wo n't burn , and if you overcook a stew the meat ( especially chicken ) may dissolve into shreds but burning is less likely . Since undercooked chicken can be unsafe , you should choose cooking techniques that are sure to fully cook the chicken without burning it .
Opened wine spoils fast . Red wine lasts about 1 day , white wine lasts about 3 days . You can prolong this slightly by putting it in the refrigerator , but only by a few days at most , and it depends on the wine . It may be " safe " to consume for much longer , but the taste will be way off , even for cooking purposes . If you 've opened it - finish it . ASAP . There are exceptions : " Cooking wines " such as cooking sherry and rice cooking wine have an array of preservatives added and will keep for much longer . But do n't leave perfectly good Chardonnay just sitting around to oxidize .
Do n't cook the chicken pieces for so long . Add them ten or twenty minutes before serving . For that matter , I would n't simmer the aromatics for that long either . Do the long simmer and cooking to make the chicken stock , then strain the now-tasteless and mushy expended bits from the flavorful stock . Heat the stock and add the sweated veggies , diced chicken , and any pasta/rice/dumplings desired but only cook briefly before serving .
<URL> says no , you can enjoy your shot for a little while : In reality , there are only a couple of things that happen to espresso over the course of a few minutes . First , the crema or foam that sits on top of the espresso reintegrates with the liquid . Crema , on its own , contains some of the best flavors and aromatic qualities of the espresso in high concentrations . Drinking it straight can be overwhelming but , it stands to reason , that having the crema reintegrate might actually be a good thing . Second , the espresso cools down . The temperature of espresso has a lot to do with how we taste the various flavors contained within it ... I am not an espresso fan myself -- I like regular coffee , but not after it has cooled down , and never reheated . Many folks are perfectly content to microwave a cold cup and drink it . I imagine that older , colder espresso is palatable to you to the extent that you are willing to tolerate it . A small shot of coffee -- and lets face it , that is all espresso is , even if it is brewed in a fancy manner -- is going to cool off much more rapidly than a full cup , or a full pot .
I 'm not so lucky as to be able to get whole raw milk & hellip ; Wait , then there 's a flaw in your premise . Check the label . Any milk treated using high-heat processes like UHT , pasteurization or ultra-pasteurized milk does n't sour like it used to in your grandmother 's days ; it spoils & hellip ; goes rotten . Spoiled milk is not the same as soured milk . The ultra-pasturized milk sold in the supermarket is essentially a dead product , with little to no live bacteria . When it goes bad , it rots and should be thrown out ( or you can <URL> with it ) . Modern industrial pasteurization kills the " good " bacteria that once made sour milk a wonderful thing for cooking and making bread and cheese . Substituting " Sour Milk " If you have a recipe calling for sour milk , put a teaspoon of vinegar in a cup of fresh milk and let it sit for a few minutes . That 's about the best you can do if you do not have access to raw milk .
Throw it out . Tofu has a very short life . Once opened it can last up to 5 days in the refrigerator , but only if you store it submerged in water , and change it daily . See also : <URL>
end question
start question
How to brown the sugar for pumpkin flan ?
A medium saucepan would probably be in the 8-10 inch range . Your sugar is n't colouring because the heat is n't high enough or it 's high enough but not long enough . Just keep cooking , the change will happen . You can try less water but if you 're not familiar with working with sugar , better to err on the side of caution ; I do work with caramels a lot , and when I know I 'm liable to get distracted by other things I have on the go I purposefully use more water than needed to give myself breathing room . Are you using the correct size of dish as specified by the recipe ? Some of the caramel will dissolve into the filling as you pour it in and as it cooks ; I would n't worry about the thickness at this stage . Beyond that , I would personally stay far , far away from anything done by RR . I do n't criticise cooks lightly , and I generally try to cook some of their recipes before I 'll pass judgement . The recipes of hers that I have tried , both from 30 minute meals and the website , are uniformly awful . Poorly written , ingredient quantities are off , and generally they just taste nasty .
There is no real difference between types of granulated , white sugar . The options you are likely to see are cane sugar and beet sugar . Granulated sugar from sugarcane is often considered " superior " to beet sugar by Americans , but the idea that cane sugar is in any way superior to beet sugar has no basis . Granulated beet sugar and granulated cane sugar are completely interchangeable and indistinguishable . Swapping them will cause no issue . By the way - this is sugarcane : <URL> These are sugar beets : <URL> I 'd post a picture of the granulated sugar made from each , but it seems kind of pointless as they look the same . <URL> On this question ( almost an exact duplicate ) , some posters see a small difference . I never have . <URL>
<URL> Sugar balances both salty and sour flavors in dishes . Adding just a little sugar makes salty things taste less salty and sour things taste less sour , without actually reducing the amount of salt or acid in the recipe . For example , the liquid base of the Pad Thai recipe I follow contains chili powder , fish sauce , tamarind , and light palm sugar . The palm sugar balances out the sour from the tamarind and the salt from the fish sauce . Without it , the noodles would come out too sour and too salty . I do n't know the physiological reasons for this . Would be interesting to hear them if someone knew ...
I ended up measuring the scoop spoon the next time I was in the US , and it turned out to be 1 Tablespoon .
Use an artificial sweetener . There 's no single best one , just pick whatever suits your tastes . The packaging will hopefully have conversion factors ( or you can look them up online ) . They probably wo n't be perfect , but they 'll give you a starting point for how much to use to replace the sugar in the recipe .
I 've seen a lot of different curry recipes with varying levels of authenticity , but the most common ingredients I see in curries that might impart that colour are : Garam masala ( brown ) Chili powder ( red ) Cumin ( brown ) Paprika ( red ) Tandoori powder ( usually a mix of masala , cumin , ground red pepper , fenugreek , and others - very red ) Saffron ( red ) Still , it 's all kind of a moot point , because , in Indian restaurants the most common source of red is actually red food colouring . Do n't kid yourself ; Indian restaurants use plenty of " artificial " ingredients - they also usually use food colouring in the saffron rice , which is how they get those few vibrant red grains to mix in with the yellowish rice .
Removing dissolved sugar from a recipe , as in your soup , practically impossible . You have two main choices : Reduce the impact of the sweetness . Increasing acidity ( lemon juice or vinegar for example -- since ketchup contains vinegar , vinegar or more ketchup may be most compatible with your specific recipe ) may mitigate how sweet the soup seems . This may or may not work -- you would have to experiment , and it could make the soup taste worse worse ( the risk being you would then still have to discard the soup . ) If you really like the borsht , and can eat ( or freeze ) it all : make a second batch with considerable lower sugar , and combine them . You will now have twice as much soup , but flavor balanced .
My preference for sugar work is to either use a pair of rubber-coated cotton gloves like this : <URL> or to use basic cotton gloves and put latex or nitrile disposable gloves over them .
Using the refrigerator for the first rise is absolutely easy , but that is not what you are asking about . For a second rise , tweaking your current approach a bit , I suggest : Place yout bread ( s ) on a baking tray or similar or use a well-floured banneton ( basket ) . Find a plastic bag large enough to fit the entire tray or the banneton plus a bit extra room inside . Lightly " blow up " the filled bag and close with a clip , rubber band or similar . You are not creating a " ballon " , just enough to have the bag " float " a bit over the loaf . Another option would be placing a glass , can or similar object next to your loaves to support the foil tent from below . You need not create an air-tight seal , but you want to limit the loss of moisture to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . For a single boule , an inverted bowl can protect the loaf enough , or if you use an appropriately sized Tupperware or similar bowl in lieu of a banneton , just close the lid . A few additional thoughts : For round loaves ( boules ) a banneton or in a pinch , a bowl , helps to keep the loaf in shape . Especially for long proofing times the tension created by shaping the loaf might not be enough to hold over hours , causing the loaf to " flow " sideways . Flour the basket well and do n't worry about excess flour at the bottom ( or top , depending in technique ) of the loaf , simply brush it off after baking . You do n't need to put parchment under the loaf if you transfer them to a pizza stone or pre-heated tray . Do n't try to lift a baguette by hand , use a sword-shaped <URL> or , in a pinch , a cutting board and roll the baguette onto the peel and back onto the pizza stone or second tray . That said , damp paper is n't much of a problem unless it is so wet that it will simply tear . Rolls or other small items are easier to pack into a plastic container - plus they bake quickly in the morning , which may add a bit of convenience ( or allows for a few extra minutes of sleep ) .
To get the sugar caramelized to that perfect dark brown , I start the sugar on the stove top and finish in the oven . I start by adding a bit of water and some corn syrup ( the fructose makes the brown more intense , but one can skip it ) to the sugar and keep it on a medium burner until it reaches the first caramel stage , at 155 & deg ; C/311 & deg ; F . As Michael notes , the sugar can go very fast from this stage to burnt . To avoid this , I place the pan in an oven that has been pre-heated to 180 & deg ; C/356 & deg ; F , just above the dark caramel stage . Checking every two minutes with an infrared thermometer ( more often as it gets closer to 177 & deg ; C/350 & deg ; F ) , it 's easy to get the sugar to the right temperature . <URL>
Sugar is not critical to the pickling process - it exists primarily as a flavorant . <URL> preservation requires one of two methods - either immersion in vinegar of a sufficiently low pH to kill off unwanted bacteria , or through natural fermentation with probiotic strains of bacteria . Honey is known to have <URL> properties . When using natural fermentation , one might think that there may be a risk that the added honey will kill off probiotic bacteria before they establish a stable population , allowing other unsavory bacteria to grow . However , most brine-based recipes already include known antimicrobial herbs such as mustard seeds , garlic , cinnamon , or cloves . Honey should n't be any different than the addition of these spices . When using vinegar to pickle , there is no reason to be concerned about adding honey . Regardless , it is important to note that honey will have a distinctly different flavor profile from pure sugar . Perhaps try it in a small batch before committing to " large scale " production .
I agree that , in general , other squashes can be substituted for pumpkin . I have tried some different types of squashes but obviously there are many more that I have n't tried . There are definitely differences in flavor - these will obviously change a dish but not ruin it . The biggest differences I have run into are water content and texture . When roasting squash the cooking time might need to be adjusted to obtain a product with the needed consistency . Using pie as an example - I have had to adjust my cooking to avoid a runny pie filling . Obviously in some recipes , such as soup , this wo n't be as important . Some squash , such as spaghetti , have stringy textures that would be odd where smooth pumpkin is expected .
A few things ... I brine for 12-24 hours . It really does make a difference . Do n't bother browning the meat ... you do n't want a crust , you want the meat to break down . Make your own barbecue sauce ! There 's a zillion recipes , and it always tastes better . When I make pulled pork , I take the cooking liquid ( you are cooking in liquid , yeah ? ) and reduce it right down to almost a demiglace , and use that as the base for my bbq sauce .
Hojicha is a green tea which is made from bancha , a low grade green tea , and cooked slightly ; this very inexpensive green tea often comes out brown because it is discolored by oxidation . Other than this variety , and some very stale bancha , I ca n't think of a Japanese green tea that comes out brown . Some stale kukicha might come out brown , and low quality genmaicha made with poor quality kukicha could be brownish from the combination of excess oxidation and the toasted rice . Most of the non-Japanese green teas I 've seen sold as " green tea " and some lower quality teabags marked as " sencha " are broken down tea leaves that can easily oxidize in the packaging to the point where they are , at best , yellowish . However , if you use even a moderate quality sencha , and it is n't stale , it should come out green . Most good quality kukicha and genmaicha will at least come out greenish-yellow . Since most Japanese restaurants use a fairly inexpensive second-harvest sencha , I imagine you 're either buying hojicha or simply using a very stale , low-quality sencha . Chinese green teas are sometimes slightly yellow , but if they 're actually yielding a brown brew , they , too are either stale or are simply mislabeled oolong . I used to sell a fair amount of green tea when I ran a small scale import business . I do recall even matcha products turning brown after being exposed to excessive sunlight ; one of the bakeries I know was constantly running into issues with their matcha pound cake slices on sunny days , especially those pieces in the front of their pastry case . So it 's reasonably possible you simply have tea which has been stored improperly ; you 're best off with a nitrogen flushed tea and it should be used within about 6 months of opening the sealed package . If your tea comes unsealed , it probably is n't in very good shape to begin with . In any event , my recommendation is to try a first-harvest high-mountain grown sencha that is sold in nitrogen-flushed aluminum packages . Depending on the style , the brewed color will be either very green or slightly yellowish if brewed in the typical way . You can either do a very brief , several second infusion at near-boiling , or a longer infusion at around 80 celsius . I like it both ways . Gyokuro , if you can afford it , is extraordinarily green , but is unlikely to be served at a restaurant without an additional charge ( it 's essentially the same leaves used to make matcha , except rolled instead of being milled ) .
Sugar is a natural preservative and provided you store it in a dark , dry , cool place it should keep for a long time . You should store it in a sterilised glass jar or bottle . To sterilise , place the empty , open jar in a pan of cold water and bring to the boil , boiling for ten minutes . Remove , pour in the syrup , then place the lid on and return to the boiling water for another ten minutes . Dry with a clean towel and store .
As André Soltner is basing his recipe from recollections of growing up in Alsace , it may be that it was not the garden pumpkin , as it 's known and which resembles the large US variety most familiar as decoration . Several of the many grown in the Alsation region might be better suited to soups and other recipes . The Hokkaido , similar to Hubbard , has a very hard outer skin , and very dark orange flesh ( image courtesy of Wikipedia ) . <URL> The Muskat-kürbis has bright orange flesh , and is used as a vegetable and for soups , in desserts , as well as being made into jam ( image from <URL> ) . <URL> As canned pumpkin is denser , it may give you the result you 're looking for in the NYTimes recipe .
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
I 'm familiar with the preparation of what the Portuguese call <URL> and <URL> ( the former being a clam , the later a cockle ) . A general advice upfront : make sure that cockles in your region at this season are safe to eat as shellfish tend to accumulate potential harmful substances in their tissue . Cleaning with seawater I ( or already the fishermen that collected the cockles ) usually put them in a container with seawater which was changed every five or six hours . The more often you repeat this procedure the less sand you 'll have in your meal ( however , even in restaurants it is not uncommon to find a bit of sand ) . You do n't want to keep them in there longer than a day though . Keep them out of direct sunlight . Refrigeration generally is not necessary for half a day to a day . Afterwards discard all individuals that are open ( = dead ) and use the remaining cockles to prepare your meal . Cleaning with freshwater I have never put them into freshwater , therefore here only a guess : theoretically you can simulate seawater by adding the right amount of salt . You 'll miss all other elements though , including nutrition , and therefore will generate stress for the cockles which will likely impede their ability to filter water ( = clean ) and survive . I advice you to use seawater if you have access . A recipe A Portuguese recipe includes white wine , a fair amount of garlic , parsley and olive oil . Heat the olive oil in a pot , cut the garlic in half or quarters ( not too small ) and add them to the pot . Once they are precooked add the cockles and the white wine . Put a lid . Once the cockles are open they are ready to eat ( some will not open - Discard closed cockles ) . Add the parsley when nearly all the cockles are open and cook for a minute more . Eat them straight out of the shell , maybe with a bit of lemon juice . Use bread to enjoy the cooked white wine mixture . Eat the garlic , it should taste delicious .
Assuming the rind chunks are fairly large , you could use a colander with fairly large holes or a metal sieve .
Grain is a measurement of the acidity of the vinegar . It is the acidity percentage multiplied by 10 , so 45 grain vinegar would be 4.5 % acidity .
end question
start question
How is long-lasting whipped cream made ?
There are two levels to this question . If you are using modern whipping cream as a starting point , then the trick for a longer lasting whipped cream is stabilization . If this is some farm bought milk you are skimming the cream from , then you have the additional problem that your cream is not fatty enough . Modern creams are concentrated with a centrifuge . To get good whipped cream , whip it cold until it <URL> . Stabilize the whipped cream by hanging it in a cheese cloth in the refrigerator or by adding gelatin.To use the gelatin , dissolve 2 teaspoons of unflavored gelatin into 2 tablespoons of cold water . Work out the lumps . After the gelatin expands , mix in a quarter cup of cream and heat the mixture to dissolve the gelatin . Cool over ice and mix a bit . Complete 2 cups of cream and proceed as you would to finish your whipped cream .
I admit , I 've never attempted making stroop ( apple or otherwise ) on my own ... but some <URL> mentioned that there 's something called ' <URL> ' which sounds like it might be quite similar , based on the description of the end consistency and the amount of sugar used .
I do n't think I 've ever even had hot buttered rum , but I can take a stab at some of your questions : 1 part ice cream and 2-3 parts boiling water will still average out pretty hot . If the ice cream is at , say , -20 to -10 C , that 'll get you in the 60-70C range initially , which is I think fairly normal for hot drinks . And of course , if you keep it in the refrigerator instead , your drink will be hotter ! I suspect mixing ice cream with butter will help it all mix together better in the end , by helping disperse the fat . Ground spices are n't going to need a ton of steeping . I imagine the boiling water would be enough , and if not , the pre-cooking could easily compensate . And since some recipes just have nutmeg sprinkled on top , it sounds like steeping is n't necessarily the goal . If you 're really aiming for spiced hot buttered rum , you 'll probably want more spices than those recipes , and perhaps to cook them briefly with the butter . If you intend to freeze the " batter " , including ice cream will help keep it soft enough to scoop/slice . If it were just butter and sugar , it 'd get quite hard in the freezer . Yes , the milk/cream content of the ice cream would make the drink a little creamier - but I do n't know whether hot buttered rum should be a bit creamy . It sounds like it 'd be fine either way - personal preference , perhaps ?
A foam is just a liquid with plenty of air incorporated into it . You can incorporate air into any liquid ; in order to be able to create an actual foam , however , you need to be able to incorporate the air faster than it escapes . What makes a liquid able to hold the air you 're incorporating ( and hence form a foam ) is a foam stabilizer , also commonly called an emulsifier1 . I know of no specific taxonomy of stabilizers , but the vast majority are hydrocolloids AKA gelling agents and belong to some family of protein . Agar , carrageenan , alginate , xanthan , and pectin are all types of <URL> ; Lecithin is mostly a random collection of <URL> ; Gelatin is denatured collagen , i.e. animal protein ; Whey protein is the prevalent protein in dairy products ; And so on . Really almost any emulsifier will do . Basically everything in your list either is , or contains , one of the the additives mentioned above : Chocolate is almost always emulsified with soy lecithin ; Eggs contain high amounts of lecithin ; Milk and cream contain whey protein ; Most " supermarket cream " also has emulsifiers like carrageenan already in it . ... you get the picture , I hope . The most basic answer I can give to this is that if you want to make a foam , you need to either use something that 's already an emulsion ( milk , butter , chocolate , etc. ) or use an emulsifier/stabilizer additive ( such as gelatin , lecithin , etc. ) If you want a relatively complete list of all of the food additives that qualify , you 'll want to look at the E number , and specifically <URL> ( thickeners , stabilizers , emulsifiers ) . 1 . As commenter Erik very correctly points out , an emulsifier is not the same thing as a foam stabilizer . However , by convention , the terms seem to be used interchangeably all over the place , to the extent that I get blank looks when I refer to a " stabilizer " as opposed to " emulsifier " . So , know the difference , but do n't get too hung up on it .
Mustard is one of those simple condiments to make , and is fun to experiment with . At it 's most basic mustard is two ingredients : Mustard Seed Liquid There are endless variations from there . Mustard seed comes in white , yellow , brown and black variations . I suggest buying whole and grinding them yourself using either a mortar &amp; pestle or coffee/spice grinder . ( Do n't use a coffee grinder that you use for grinding coffee ! You 'll end up with mustard flavored coffee ) . Liquids can be water , vinegar , wine , or even beer . Using vinegar/wine will help it last longer than water or beer would . Once you 've fine ground ( of course there are coarse ground varieties too ) your mustard simply mix it with the liquid until it is the desired consistency . Additional ingredients can be added to taste . Honey , turmeric ( gives yellow mustard its color ) , sugar , etc. are all possibilities . Update : I forgot to mention that mustard needs time for the flavors to mix . This can take anywhere from a few hours to weeks . A fresher mustard tends to be hotter , but an aged mustard can often taste " better " with a slight loss of that initial heat . Refrigerated mustard will keep it 's heat longer . Also note , mustard made with water should definitely be refrigerated and consumed quicker than others .
When I am using skim powdered milk and want more fat , I just replace some of the water in the recipe with heavy cream . Your recipe does n't have water , it already uses milk and cream . You could replace a little of the milk with cream to make up the difference . However , with all the cream and butter in that recipe , I doubt you would be able to notice the fat missing from the dry milk . I would just use your skim dry milk and not worry about it .
It 's definitely an unusually long-lasting melon , although sources list a few different timeframes . <URL> says if kept in a cool , dry , frost-free place , they keep very well for several months , and reportedly over a year . <URL> increases that : If kept dry after harvest , a fruit can last several years .
Corn starch only thickens when heated to 180 F , so it probably is not helping at all with your whipped cream . I live in the US , so I can not compare to whipped cream in the UK . Whipped cream for cake fillings is often beaten almost to the breaking point to make the foam as thick as possible . I assume you are whipping the cream sufficiently , and it still is n't getting as thick as you would like . If that is the case , you might try <URL> . The link is one of many I have found on a quick search , and it specifically calls for 35 % cream . This <URL> also has some interesting thoughts and advise . This <URL> also provides an interesting method of using creme fraiche .
YUM ! I lived in Seoul for a year , Bo Ssam is one of the best things I 've ever tasted . You 're using pork shoulder ( butt ) right ? If so , no oil is necessary . There is plenty of fat in the pork .
Last summer was a long time ago . The National Center for Food Preservation has this to say about <URL> Oils may be flavored with herbs if they are made up for fresh use , stored in the refrigerator and used within 2 to 3 days . There are no canning recommendations . ... Pesto is an uncooked seasoning mixture of herbs , usually including fresh basil , and some oil . It may be frozen for long term storage <URL> is a serious enough hazard with oiled herbs that I 'd not trust a dash of lemon juice on top of the oil to protect me from getting sick after 9 months storage . You 're much safer freezing the stuff as recommended . Ice cube trays produce nice pesto cubes that you can store safely in a freezer bag for at least a couple years .
Not long at all . Usually 1 minute is enough . If it starts to turn brown , it 's been in there too long .
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
It depends on the artichoke 's size . The Birds Eye brand common in the US will take about half an hour at 475 & deg ; F ( I have never timed them , so it 's a guess ) . I just watch them until they start getting brown spots . If they are big , lower the temperature .
Steam a head of cauliflower , puree it . Add it to the soup . You might also consider some squash or sweet potato puree .
I 'll attempt to expand upon daniel 's answer above . Boudin describes a sausage that is generally created from a blend of beef , rice , and/or pork ( <URL> ) . Sometimes other types of proteins are added to create variations : Gator , Shrimp , crawfish , etc. . Boudin is widely known to be used in Cajun cooking . Other various types of Boudin exists . As wikipedia defines various different types of boudin : Boudin blanc : A white sausage made of pork without the blood . Pork liver and heart meat are typically included . In Cajun versions , the sausage is made from a pork rice dressing [ ... ] In French/Belgian cuisine , the sausage is sauteed or grilled . The Louisiana version is normally simmered or braised , although coating with oil and slow grilling for tailgating is becoming a popular option in New Orleans and Baton Rouge . Boudin noir : A dark-hued blood sausage , containing pork , pig blood , and other ingredients . Variants of the boudin noir occur in French , Belgian , Cajun and Catalan cuisine [ ... ] Shrimp Boudin : Similar to crawfish boudin , it is made by adding the shrimp to rice [ ... ] [ 4 ] Boudin rouge : In Louisiana cuisine , a sausage similar to boudin blanc , but with pork blood added to it . This originated from the French boudin noir . Brown Rice Boudin : Taste is very similar to traditional pork boudin , except this boudin > is made with a brown-rice substitute for those looking to cut down on white rice intake .
I can give you the traditional aproach my <URL> uses : Harvest season is just a few weeks per year . The mill will during that time buy the amount of grain they need for one year - from harvest to harvest . The grain gets sorted , tested , dried and cleaned if necessary , and is then put into storage . During the year , it gets milled . The two factors here are capacity and demand . A mill works year-round , it makes no sense to let the machines stand idle for a long time . So there is a maximum capacity they can process per year - and a good management wo n't buy more . Also , there are times of higher demand ( think holiday baking ) which need more flour to be milled in advance . The grain should rest for a few weeks after harvest for better quality . I 'm no scientist , but I trust my miller on this . A good mill will strive to sell the flour as soon as possible after it is milled , partly for economic , but mostly for quality reasons . While especially white flour wo n't spoil for months ( recommended : one year ) , darker or especially whole grain flours get rancid quickly and quality decreases . ( E.g. changes in taste and moisture content and enzymatic degradation which influence the baking process and results . ) The whole grains on the other hand can easily be stored for well over a year , multiple years in fact . Big industrial mills work in a similar way , just on a way larger scale and the flour has a longer time from mill via stores to the customer .
Throw it out . Tofu has a very short life . Once opened it can last up to 5 days in the refrigerator , but only if you store it submerged in water , and change it daily . See also : <URL>
Eventually , yes ... but it does have a fairly long shelf life . According to <URL> , you should expect 1 to 2 weeks after the date on the package . They say : You can tell if sour cream has gone bad if you notice dark mold on its surface , bright bacterial marks , pockets of watery liquid and a sharp , bitter flavor . First the liquid will begin to separate , at which point it can still be used but within a week you will need to throw it out when you notice mold on the inside of the lid and then in the product .
Whipped cream is whipping cream after it has been whipped . Whipping cream is just cream with at least 30 % fat content ( that would be called Light Whipping Cream in the US ) . Heavy Whipping Cream contains at least 36 % fat and up to 40 % and rarely ( in the US ) even higher . Until these creams are whipped , they are just liquid . After they are whipped , they 're fluffy . A way to know that whipped cream is " done " is that it holds " peaks " , like in the first picture . Higher fat cream will thicken more readily , and hold its structure longer . Other countries use different terms for various levels of fat in cream . <URL> Whipped Cream : Whipping cream :
It is a common misconception that the shelf life of a cooked food ( = mix of ingredients ) is the same as the shelf life of the shortest-lived ingredient . I can not stress enough how wrong this assumption is . As with any cooked food , the shelf life of hot chocolate should be about 3 to 5 days in the fridge , with a cumulative stay in the danger zone of no longer than 2 hours . An explanation of why the assumption is wrong : Food spoils when bacteria ( or sometimes other organisms like mold ) create a colony in it . For this to happen , the food has to offer all the conditions an organism needs for survival . Most cooked foods are nutritious enough to ensure the survival of simple organisms . There are single ingredients which hold for longer . Bar chocolate is a good example . The reason for that is that they are not a complete medium . Chocolate does not have enough moisture for bacteria to grow in it . But as soon as you mix any ingredient with something else , you can not know if the other ingredients have not added the factor the bacteria have been missing . So , if you mix for example water ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no calories ) and flour ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no moisture ) , you get dough , which will have large bacterial colonies within 3 days . Exceptions in the other direction ( food that spoils sooner than 3 days ) are foods which decompose on their own . For example fish - it goes bad quickly even at fridge temperature , but the reason is the fish 's own enzymes , not bacteria . That 's why it is normally held on ice , if not frozen outright . As a side note , you can not rely on the expiration date of milk anyway . It is OK for traditionally pasteurized milk . But the expiration date of ESL and UHT milk is only valid as long as the packaging has not been broken . Once you open it , it is again good for about 5 days . Conclusion : For anything cooked , up to 5 days in the fridge is a good assumption . Make it less for food which is known for high risk of contamination ( e.g. food containing raw eggs ) , but never longer , even if the expiration date of the ingredients is longer than that .
end question
start question
Is there a difference between Brie & Camembert ?
They are both soft-ripened cheese , and there are certainly many similarities , but they are by no means the same . Camembert is aged at least 3 weeks ; Brie may be aged as little as 1 week . Brie is generally drained for 18 hours ; Camembert is drained for 48 hours . Brie may be salted before aging ; Camembert is not . Brie is more often pasteurized than Camembert ( although " genuine " Brie is unpasteurized ) . That said , there are many different varieties of Brie and many different varieties of Camembert , and it would n't be too surprising to find at least one Brie that tastes exactly like another Camembert . Still , they are quite different - different moulds , different draining , different aging .
There is certainly a difference between different yeasts . Different kinds of yeast react differently , are happy at different temperature ranges , produce different amounts of gas , live for different amounts of time . In my little world , however , it 's better to use a yeast that you use commonly and understand than it is to experiment with a different yeast that may not behave the way you expect . The thing is , " bakers yeast " is a generic term . If it called for rapid rise yeast , and all you had was active dry yeast , I 'd say to go out and buy some , or your bread would end up flat . Chances are you have one of those two kinds . They 'd both work in most recipes , but each have their peculiarities , and you 'd need to adjust . I 'd give it a shot , and see how it comes out . If your bread ends up whacky , then try something else .
I think you 've answered your question yourself . You use the bean itself to make vanilla sugar , so obviously there is much flavour in it as well and not just in the seeds . My experience is that you get much more flavour out of the pod if you let it simmer in warm milk/fluid .
The difference in their name is - not surprisingly - because of their form . Cherry tomatoes are round , while grape tomatoes are more oblong . <URL> mentions that grape tomatoes are ' sweet as cherry tomatoes ' , so not much difference in flavour according to this . Perhaps grape tomatoes are more similar to small plum tomatoes . <URL> claims grape tomatoes to be sweeter , having a thicker skin and a lower water content than cherry tomatoes . Interestingly , it also says that grape tomatoes are a cross between cherry tomatoes and other tomatoes . The claims of the second site are in agreement with <URL> site ( " grape tomatoes have thicker skin , lower water content and intense sweetness " ) . It also states " a grape tomato is half the size of a cherry tomato " , so perhaps they are smaller . Due to the lower water content , grape tomatoes have less chance of ' squirting ' when being bitten into .
If I recall correctly the differences are slight , but significant . Both have a subtle , delicate flavour with an exceptionally light texture . The Victorian is usually regarded as the healthier , lighter of the two , but I believe this is mostly due to the Génoise usually being rendered as a layer cake with a lavish buttercream filling , though if I remember right it can also be used as a base for madeleines and ladyfingers . The Victorian can be baked thin and carefully rolled with cream for Swiss rolls . The main difference is the Victorian slices disorderly and ' crumby ' while the Génoise retains its form neatly . Both are accompanied well by , and are traditionally served with hot beverages namely tea and coffee . The Italian creation is undecidedly the more complex one to prepare . You 're right about separating the egg whites and beating them separately aerating the mixture further , but I 'm not certain if it would make a noticeable difference in case of sponge cakes but I 'd love it if someone could comment on this .
They are both soft-ripened cheese , and there are certainly many similarities , but they are by no means the same . Camembert is aged at least 3 weeks ; Brie may be aged as little as 1 week . Brie is generally drained for 18 hours ; Camembert is drained for 48 hours . Brie may be salted before aging ; Camembert is not . Brie is more often pasteurized than Camembert ( although " genuine " Brie is unpasteurized ) . That said , there are many different varieties of Brie and many different varieties of Camembert , and it would n't be too surprising to find at least one Brie that tastes exactly like another Camembert . Still , they are quite different - different moulds , different draining , different aging .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
It becomes quite confusing when talking about the difference between chow mein and lo mein mainly due to the error in translation . In Chinese chow mein literally translate as " fried noodles . " However when buying chow mein at a chinese restaurant , you get vegetables with a side of deep fried noodles . Somehow the title of a dish is referring the to side rather than the main dish which leads to much confusion . When talking about chow mein at a grocery store , it also gets confusing because you can get two types of noodles . The first kind is a fried noodle that looks something like this : This is definitely not what your recipe is referring to . The second type of chow mein you will find is very much similar to lo mein . It should be a raw noodles that is still semi-soft . It should look like this : If the chow mein you have at your grocery store resembles the second type of noodle , then you may use that as a substitute . If it resembles the first type , do n't . The first type is used as a topping sort of like chinese croutons .
春卷 ( Chūnjuǎn , Spring rolls ) are julienned vegetables , sometimes with a bit of noodles , sometimes with a bit of minced meat , wrapped with a flour dough skin and pan - or deep-fried . They are a filled roll . You can see the different varieties by country here : <URL> Spring roll : 鸡蛋卷 ( Jīdàn juǎn , Egg rolls ) are many different things around the world . In Chinese communities , these typically refer to a sweet biscuit type roll , of hollow flaky egg pastry ( not filled . ) However , there is also another variety ( common in American Chinese cuisine ) where a flour dough wrap is filled with " pork , shrimp , or chicken , adding cabbage , carrots , bean sprouts and other vegetables , and then deep fried . " In the American Chinese respect , I believe it is very similar to a Spring roll really , although the flour dough looks thicker and of a different composition than a typical Spring roll ( the dough bubbles when deep-fried , with Spring roll skin it does not . ) <URL> Sweet egg roll : American Chinese egg roll :
I 've only heard of massaging kale . If you rub the greens together they get softer , darker and more tender and useable in a salad . Never done it with anything else . Wilted is steamed or blanched greens . Wilting definitely changes the texture and can make the greens more palatable and less bitter . I wo n't eat raw collards . I also always salt and squeeze my cooked spinach before using as it knocks out the bitterness .
A standard ratio of dried seasoning to fresh is 1 part dried to 3 parts fresh . For garlic specifically the ratios are slightly different : 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 1/4 teaspoon dried garlic 1 clove garlic 1/8 teaspoon garlic powder
I guess it depends upon the definition of " crushed " If by crushed , you mean using a garlic press , then there is quite a difference between chopped and crushed garlic . When you crush garlic , no need for a garlic press , the flat of a knife and a little salt is all that 's needed , you release the essential oils , resulting in a stronger flavour . You can also purée the garlic . It 's also important to consider the type of recipe , in some recipes , such as a pasta sauce , chopped garlic is fine . In Asian cooking , especially Indian cuisine , it 's common practice to use minced or puréed garlic . In roast dishes , using the whole cloves in the roasting tin with the meat , can produce an incredible sauce .
White , green , oolong , and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds , the only difference is how they are processed . You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties . Different sources will give different accounts of the processing steps , but in rough order of least-to-most processed : White tea is minimally processed and not oxidized , meaning it retains the natural antioxidants , but does not develop as much flavor , color , or caffeine . Sweet or flowery flavors are characteristic . ( Chinese Silver needle white tea ) Green tea has a minimal amount of oxidation , halted by additional pan-frying ( Chinese teas ) or steaming ( Japanese ) steps . The additional processing brings out more flavor , and allows for caffeine to develop , at the cost of a reduction in antioxidants . Characteristic flavors are grassy , vegetal , and earthy , with sweet notes . ( Japanese Sencha ) Oolong tea gets partial fermentation , and often an additional shaking/bruising step that release additional flavors . Oolong can range in color from dark green to black . The combination of bruising and partial fermentation give many oolongs distinct flowery &amp; earthy flavors . Darker oolongs may have buttery or smoky tastes to them . It has somewhat more caffeine and less antioxidants than green tea . Tieguanyin or Iron Goddess : ( light oolong ) Black Oolong : ( Wu Yi ) Black tea is fully fermented , which blackens the leaves and causes the formation of caffeine and tannins . It generally possesses the most robust flavor and highest level of caffeine , but the least antioxidants . ( Chinese keemun ) Pu-erh is tea that is pressed into cakes and post-fermented , meaning that after processing and drying it undergoes an additional ripening/fermentation . Microorganisms work on the tea , changing it chemically in a similar fashion to aging cheeses . Traditionally this is accomplished over years in controlled climate conditions ( 10-15 years being ideal ) , but in recent decades a several-month fast ripening process is sometimes used . Pu-erh develops a richer , more complex flavor , and has the widest range of flavors of any of the varieties . Before post-fermentation , it may resemble a white , green , or oolong tea , but the ripening process can impart darker black-tea flavors , giving a unique character . Pu-er Cake Rooibos , sometimes called red tea , is made from another plant entirely , Aspalathus linearis . It is a traditional South African infusion , prepared like a black tea but without caffeine . There are two varieties , green and red . Green is un-oxidized , where red is oxidized . Rooibos is characterized by a sweet , woody/malty flavor . Health-wise , it is a source of anti-oxidants , may aid in digestion , and some say it may aid with nervous tension and allergies . Yerba mate is from the South American plant Ilex paraguariensis , whose leaves are steeped like tea . It is generally toasted in processing , and produces a brew with caffeine similar to coffee . Despite its caffeine , mate is actually relaxing to smooth muscles , so you do n't get jitters , and it also helps control appetite . The flavor is vegetal and herbal , and can be bitter if brewed hot . Although it contains antioxidants , this is balanced by traces of carcinogens from the toasting , and the jury is still out on whether mate overall increases or decreases cancer rates . Tisanes or herbal infusions these are various blends of dried herbs , fruits , spices , and flowers which are steeped like teas , but do not contain tea leaves . Generally , the ingredients are dried , although fresh ingredients can be used too . To confuse matters further , black and green teas may also have flavorings added to them , giving a similar result .
Short answer : yes , milk chocolate differs from chocolate by the milk its manufacture . Real chocolate ( as opposed to many other confections ) is made from chocolate liquer , which despite the name , is not alchoholic , or even liquid at room temperature . The fruit of the <URL> tree contains seeds , known as beans . The harvested fruits are allowed to ferment , bringing many flavor and chemical changes to the beans , as well as removing the pulpy fruit . The beans are then husked for the seeds inside , the nibs . The nibs are the first true chocolate product , although they are not sweet . The nibs are roasted , and then ground . This is chocolate liquer , a solid colloid of cocoa fat and solid particles . It would be solid at room temperature , but the grinding process melts it . The cocoa liquer can be pressed to separate out the cocoa butter ( as for use in the cosmetics industry ) , leaving cocoa powder , but that is not the point of your question . Instead , to manufacture chocolate , the liquer is <URL> , a mechanical process that makes the suspended particles much smaller , part of what gives chocolate its smooth mouthfeel . Various products can be made from chocolate liquer , or cocoa butter , including : baking chocolate - essentially , just chocolate liquer , hardened and tempereded . May or may not be fully conched , so may not be as smooth as chocolate intended for eating . chocolate or dark chocolate - Chocolate liquer , possibly extra cocoa butter , and sugar . Minor optional ingredients often included are vanilla or other flavorings , and lecithen , an emulsifier . milk chocolate - Same as dark chocolate , with the addition of condensed milk or milk solids , depending on whether it is made via the Swiss method or the Hershey method white chocolate - cocoa butter , plus sugar and other flavorings chocolate chips - Another form of chocolate in a particular shape . Many manufacturers do n't make these from true chocolate , but rather substitute another fat which does n't melt as easily as cocoa butter , for economy , and so the chips hold their shape in the oven chocolate bunny - Chocolate molded into the shape of a bunny , then tempered and cooled German 's chocolate - A brand name of quite sweet dark chocolate Chocolate labels which list " cocoa percentage " are saying what proportion of the chocolate is cocoa liquer or additional cocoa butter or cocoa solids -- that is , stuff from nibs , as opposed to sugar or other flavorings . The cocoa percentage for milk chocolate tends to be much lower than that of dark chocolates , although not every milk chocolate has a lower percentage than every dark chocolate . See <URL> for information on tempering chocolate , which gives its snappy mouthfeel . Edit : On dairy products in dark chocolate : I was very surprised at Lemontwist 's comment , so I did some googling and found this <URL> : A good quality dark or semi-sweet chocolate will only have sweetener / sugar in some form added , and may also include a touch of soy lecithin as an emulsifier . These brands are milk-free by ingredients , but keep in mind that most brands of chocolate are made on shared equipment . That is , an inherently milk-free dark chocolate may be made on the same equipment as milk chocolate . See below for my note on cross-contamination issues . The complications arrive as some brands of dark and semi-sweet chocolate do include milk ingredients for a " smoother " end result . This is particularly true in mainstream brands like Hershey 's . Some ways that you may see milk listed in the ingredients include milk solids , milk , milk powder , whey , butter oil or butterfat ( see the Ask Alisa post on butter oil ) , or even casein . If milk is in the ingredients , it should be listed in a clearly identifiable manner per the labeling laws , but still , use caution . This is still in line with the information I provided , as I did mention " other flavorings " in dark chocolate , and it is not a universal or even common practice as far as I know . For people with strong allergies , the cross-contamination issue may be more of an issue . Vegans would have more of an issue , as lecithen is a very common ingredient in chocolate of all types , and may be animal sourced . Vegans would specifically need to reseearch and obtain chocolates that meet that standard . Googling will find many such products , but I did not find an easy single reference list .
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
It mostly depends on the heat used . If you are cooking at a high enough heat that vegetables and thinly-sliced meats ( if using ) are cooked through in only a few minutes then it matches with the term generally used as " <URL> " . In this heat , if you stop stirring even for a moment , pretty much , the food at the hottest part of the pan ( at the base , near the flame ) will start to burn . It needs to be in motion constantly . That 's the stir part of the stir-fry -- constant motion up the curved sides where it is cooler and letting other parts of the food go to the bottom to the heat and around and around . A full dish of meat , veg , noodles , etc can be completely cooked start to finish in just about 5 minutes . <URL> demonstrates stir-frying baby bok choy in 2 1/2 minutes of cooking time for the veg , <URL> for 2 minutes , and <URL> at 3-5 minutes . <URL> should also be at a fairly high heat and generally with less oil ( although stir-frying does n't use a lot of oil either , usually ) . The heat is lower than what is implied by stir-fry . With sautéing you are still generally keeping things moving , but it does n't need to be quite as frantic . You can let things stop a moment , and it can help to let them start to brown and caramelize . To demonstrate , <URL> for sautéed baby bok choy cooks them for 7 minutes , <URL> for 9-11 minutes , <URL> cooking it for 4 minutes . The fastest of these is twice as slow as most of the the stir-fry or about the same as the slowest stir-fry . The slowest of these sauté recipes is nearly 3-5 times as slow as the stir-fry with fairly similar ingredients , especially similar to the slowest of the stir-fry recipes . But to be fair , <URL> I was , strictly speaking , abusing the term sautéing by conflating it with even more moderate temperatures ( which are more properly simply called " pan frying " ) . A kadai is a good implement to use for stir-frying , but a kadai can also be used for cooking at a slightly lower temperature . Simply using a kadai does not 100 % determine the end result will be either a stir-fry or a sauté or a gentle fry , or even deep-frying . It 's a versatile vessel . :-)
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
I have not found that there is a definitive answer , the most common I know is that it depends on what you like for a pizza dough . I know many people who use a common bread dough for pizza . I personally find that too " bready " , but they like it that way . When I first learned , I was taught use a basic french bread recipe and add a couple Table Spoons of oil then allow to rise in cool environment rather than warm . Many use a higher gluten flour , but if you prefer a more cracker like thin crust then whole grain and a extra pinch a salt and immediately cook after rolling out with only one rise . If you like a thicker , chewy crust , then I suggest letting the dough do a second 10-15 minute rise after you have it ready for toppings but before you put them on . Most times what many of us consider a better pizza crust , regardless of if we like thin , thick , crispy , chewy , or some odd combo is one with smaller fermentation bubbles which calls for slower rising than bread . Higher gluten , a more elastic knead , a bit extra oil and a pinch of salt can all help get this . Starting with a regular break dough would restrict you down to only being able to go with a slower rise in my mind .
Chapathi or Roti is made from wheat flour usually in all of the Indian homes . Chapathi is usually bigger in size than Phulka . both sides are cooked on pan . Some people apply oil/ghee after completely cooking it but when it is not on the pan but while eating . Roti / chapati is usually not made to swell up , especially if it is rolled comparatively thick . Bubbles do appear in the roti / chapati when steam forms in some places . The word ' Roti ' is used commonly in north , central and east India , whereas ' Chapati ' is used more in west ( Mumbai ) , and south India . Only in south India Chapati is fried in a bit of oil ! Elsewhere , only a Paratha is fried with oil or ghee Paratha is something which can be stuffed paratha or non stuffed paratha . Stuffed parartha is like Aloo Paratha , Methi Paratha and it is cooked on a pan too but oil/ghee/butter is applied while cooking on a pan . Non stuffed paratha is you make a puree of spinach or fenugreek with different spices and add it while preparing the dough itself . And then it is cooked on pan . Paratha ( plain , folded or stuffed ) is made from an unleavened dough of wholewheat flour , and shallow fried with a little oil / ghee / butter . Parathas generally stay soft and moist even when cold . Yes , certainly sometimes meaning differs with context to people and region , though there may not be much difference in preparing it.Triangle Shape has nothing to do with the Taste or Texture , it deals more with Presentation . Oil indeed influences the flavor &amp; texture of dough . The " moistness " of the Parathas - the soft texture - is actually from oils and fats . Adding in extra fat , such as oil , butter , shortening , makes the Parathas seem extra moist and soft .
Whipped cream is whipping cream after it has been whipped . Whipping cream is just cream with at least 30 % fat content ( that would be called Light Whipping Cream in the US ) . Heavy Whipping Cream contains at least 36 % fat and up to 40 % and rarely ( in the US ) even higher . Until these creams are whipped , they are just liquid . After they are whipped , they 're fluffy . A way to know that whipped cream is " done " is that it holds " peaks " , like in the first picture . Higher fat cream will thicken more readily , and hold its structure longer . Other countries use different terms for various levels of fat in cream . <URL> Whipped Cream : Whipping cream :
end question
start question
Why does canned mango pulp have no vitamin A ?
The vitamin loss is due primarily to the puree'ing . The viramin A in mangoes comes from beta-carotene , and beta-carotene breaks down easily due to oxidation . On a similar note , I 've seen recommendations that carrots ( another good source of beta-carotene ) not be chopped into small pieces before canning to preserve their vitamin content . Lots of vitamins are also destroyed by the heat of canning , but beta-carotene is not as susceptible to this problem because it is fat soluble .
White sugar was commonly used as a preservative in the past , in much the same way as salt . It 's wildly hygroscopic ( like salt ) , and an excellent desiccant , so if you packed something in it , it would accelerate the drying process . This is actually the origin of fruit jam and fruit preserves , which are still common today , even after better methods of preservation are available . Salt was more common simply because many things like eating/living in WET sugar , so you had to be careful with how much water was in the thing you were trying to preserve . But as long as the sugar was dry it 's an extremely hostile environment for bacteria and little crawly things . Kept dry , it will last forever .
As André Soltner is basing his recipe from recollections of growing up in Alsace , it may be that it was not the garden pumpkin , as it 's known and which resembles the large US variety most familiar as decoration . Several of the many grown in the Alsation region might be better suited to soups and other recipes . The Hokkaido , similar to Hubbard , has a very hard outer skin , and very dark orange flesh ( image courtesy of Wikipedia ) . <URL> The Muskat-kürbis has bright orange flesh , and is used as a vegetable and for soups , in desserts , as well as being made into jam ( image from <URL> ) . <URL> As canned pumpkin is denser , it may give you the result you 're looking for in the NYTimes recipe .
<URL> tells us this is a myth : Many tea companies , and even some reputable entities such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture , have made misleading generalizations about the caffeine content of broad classes of tea . It is a widespread myth that black tea contains more caffeine than green tea , and another myth that white tea contains the least caffeine of all teas . They indicate that brewing method is the main determiner of caffeine levels in the brewed tea . The source article goes on to cite various credible scientific sources , which raise the credibility of this assertion . Unfortunately , most of their links have gone bad , which makes it harder to check the background science . This <URL> does indicate slightly different levels , but that is likely to be a result of different brewing details across tea types rather than fundamental to the tea plant itself .
White chocolate <URL> is at least 3.5 % milk fat and 14 % milk solids . As far as I know , the EU uses the same definition as the FDA ( US ) . So , nothing vegan can legally be sold as " white chocolate " . That said , there are a great many non-dairy white chocolate substitutes , usually made with any combination of soy milk , maltodextrin , vanilla , and saturated/hydrogenated fat ( palm oil , shortening , etc. ) , among other ingredients/additives of course . They do n't taste the same as real white chocolate , but then again , white chocolate is n't real chocolate to begin with , so it ca n't hurt to experiment with some of the products out there - which can be easily sourced with a Google search , as one of the comments indicates .
There are two parts to this question , the stated part , and the unstated " are you really frying an egg if there is no oil ? " For the first part , most manufacturers of non-stick pans claim that their product makes oil unnecessary , and generally I 've found that to be true . A little oil helps , but " necessary " might be a stretch . To maximize your non-stickyness of a non-stick pan , you should always preheat the pan before adding the food , at least to 250F or so . Preheating causes the teflon to expand a bit , closing up pores and micro-scratches in the surface . It is also common for oils from the past to form a polymerized layer on top of the teflon , making the pan more sticky . This is actually worse when you use aerosol spray oils , because the tiny droplets hit the pan and very quickly polymerize to form a slightly sticky layer . This layer is similar to the one you intentionally create when seasoning a cast iron pan , but in this case it is not helpful . All-Clad recommends periodically cleaning teflon pans with a light scrub of baking soda and water to remove that coating of oil . It should bring back the maximum slippery of your teflon . When cooking protein-rich foods , you can also minimize sticking by letting the food cook a bit before attempting to move it . The loose , floppy denatured proteins in an egg are extremely sticky , but when they coagulate ( set ) from cooking , they become less sticky . It may seem impossibly sticky at first , but may release on it 's own after a minute of cooking . As to the second , unstated part , oil provides flavor , and is also a heat-transfer vehicle . When the food is on the pan , if you looked at it with a microscope only a small portion of the food is actually in contact with the pan . Those areas will get heated more , and other areas will get heated less . A little oil fills those gaps , causing more even thermal contact , which allows fried food to fry , rather than just get burned in some areas . It is really a matter of taste whether the flavor of the oil and the way that it changes the texture of the food is appealing to your boyfriend . I would n't like it without any oil , but if he does , well , so be it . If he does n't really like the taste , but is concerned about health , I 'd suggest using a little olive oil - it has no cholesterol , is low in saturated fats , and has a good flavor . Different than butter , but still very enjoyable .
There are only three advantages that I can think of for a brasier : The lower sides result in faster evaporation when cooking on the stove top , as it does n't hold in the steam . It 's typically not as heavy for the same surface area . You should be able to fit two of them in your oven ( on different racks ) , which is unlikely for a dutch oven . Personally , I do n't have any of that shape pan in cast iron , and the ones that I do have , I do n't use for braising ; I use them for pilaf-type dishes or casseroles where you want a wide but shallow covered dish . I do n't know if a cast iron vessel would work as well for those dishes , as the thermal mass could make it more difficult to cook the middle sufficiently without overcooking the outside , unless is n't something that you can serve immediately after coming out of the oven .
Those are called " Eyes " by cheese makers . The appear when bacteria convert lactic acid into propionic acid and carbon dioxide , or metabolise citrate . These bacteria occur in dairy products , though they can also be added to the curd to get the characteristic eyes . See for example <URL> on Wikipedia .
Interesting question , tried to search and it is very hard to find any real answer , I did find <URL> which speculates that since duck eggs have thicker shells they have longer shelf life .
Antibiotics might be a reason , but it 's not the only cause . Other significant reasons are : exercise feed post-processing Most of the chicken available in grocery stores in the U.S. is factory raised ... they 're bulked up as quickly as possible without threat of predators . They 're fed corn , rather than their acting as pest control on farms , where they 'd be eating insects , moving about ( in their search for insects and other things to eat ) , and possibly running away from predators ( getting more exercise ) . That 's not to say that free roaming chickens would n't be fed corn or other processed feed ( or even antiobiotics ) , but that they 'd still have an opportunity for other food . The lack of predators means that chickens never have to fly , so they do n't need fast-twitch breast muscle , and they can grow to a size where they 'd never be able to fly , even for short flight to excape predators . Also not common in the U.S. are old chickens for stewing ... we have large chickens , but not necessarily the old ones , such as formerly egg-laying chickens that are no longer producing eggs . I have no idea what 's done with those ... they 're not in grocery stores , so I assume that they 're used in some other way ( dog food ? ) . One other possibility is the gender of the chicken . I do n't believe that males are raised for meat ( or anything else , really , other than in token amounts to sustain the species ) in the U.S. . I assume that a higher percentage of roosters would be produced in other countries , but I have no idea if they might be culled early ( if there are agression issues , etc , that would make them difficult to raise ) , like male cows are . And as for the post-processing comment ... much of the U.S. chicken is sold cut up , possibly with a brine solution injected , rather than being sold whole . This does n't seem like a big deal , other than the possibility of the brining , but it also means that chickens have been selectively bred for breast meat , rather than whole carcass weight . It also means that most of what we 're eating is white meat , rather than a mix of white &amp; dark meat .
Mostly , it 's just more efficient from a time perspective . You can do all the stuff that a restaurant kitchen does at home on a smaller scale , but it may seem like a lot of work for just a small portion . For example , the prep time to make homemade broth , then put together ingredients and cook a homemade soup for 4 servings might take you most of an afternoon . Maybe by adding an extra hour for processing ingredients , you could easily make 100 servings of that same soup . The difference between making 1 loaf of bread and 20 loaves of bread is minor , assuming you have equipment to handle the larger quantities . You 'll spend a few more minutes dividing and shaping , but otherwise most of the time is just waiting for the dough to rise and then bake . So it 's really about efficiency . If a recipe says " stir for 20 minutes while simmering , " you 'll probably have to do that for roughly 20 minutes whether you 're making a cup or 3 gallons . And because all that prep work is tedious for just a few servings , many home cooks wo n't bother -- they 'll substitute store-bought broth or bullion , they 'll buy pre-mixed bread dough , etc. . Those " shortcuts " are often one main difference that can make your home cooking not as good . Otherwise , there really are n't specific advantages for most dishes . In some cases , you may need to adapt techniques or recipes to handle larger vs. smaller quantities . But flavors can be effectively developed in most dishes whether you 're making one portion or a hundred .
Two hours is on the borderline , so you will have to assess your risk tolerance . No harm will come to your cookies by refrigerating the dough ; in fact , the later trays may actually be superior due to the additional time hydrating the starches . Baking cold dough will only trivially change the baking time . I would probably err on the side of caution and put the dough in the refrigerator . One thing that can speed up your tray recycle time is to cool the tray with running water on the back side , so that you can reuse it right away without waiting for it to cool . You can also pre-scoop cookies onto a plate , which makes moving them on to the tray much faster . You can even refrigerate or freeze these pre-scooped cookies .
There 'll be a lot of variation depending on temperature , humidity , the exact nature of the jam , and pure dumb luck , but I would n't be surprised if it started growing mold within a week , if not within a day or two . When things say to refrigerate after opening , they tend to mean it .
It sounds like you may be having temperature control issues . If it 's not dark enough , keep it over low heat for a bit longer . If it 's hardening/burning , it 's probably caused by one of the following : 1 ) your stovetop ( if burner is n't turned low enough or burner is too large and overheats sides of pan ) 2 ) your pan ( easy to burn things if your pan is n't sufficiently thick-bottomed ) 3 ) lack of attention during the carmelization process ( you need to move the sugar towards the center once carmelization begins to prevent burning at the edges , but not stir it too much ) . You might find these <URL> helpful for troubleshooting .
Lemon juice thickens condensed milk in the same way it would " thicken " regular milk , i.e. , by curdling . Basically , milk has two general types of proteins : casein and whey . The casein is what forms the " curds " in " curds and whey . " Both proteins are somewhat unusual in that they do n't tend to coagulate with heat ( as eggs proteins do , for example ) . Thus , they will survive largely intact even with the processing of condensed milk . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking explains what happens when they encounter acids , though : The casein family includes four different kinds of proteins that gather together into microscopic family units called micelles . Each casein micelle contains a few thousand individual protein molecules . . . . Around a tenth of the volume of milk is taken up by casein micelles . Much of the calcium in milk is in the micelles , where it acts as a kind of glue holding the protein molecules together . One portion of calcium binds individual protein molecules together into small clusters of 15 to 25 . Another portion then helps pull several hundred of the clusters together to form the micelle ... One member of the casein family is especially influential in these gatherings . That is kappa-casein which caps the micelles once they reach a certain size , prevents them from growing larger , and keeps them dispersed and separate . One end of the capping-casein molecule extends from the micelle out into the surrounding liquid , and forms a " hairy layer " with a negative electrical charge that repels other micelles ... If [ milk ] gets acid enough to approach pH 5.5 , the capping-casein 's negative charge is neutralized , the micelles no longer repel each other , and they therefore gather in loose clusters . At the same acidity , the calcium glue that holds the micelles together dissolves , the micelles begin to fall apart , and their individual proteins scatter . Beginning around pH 4.7 , the scattered casein proteins lose their negative charge , bond to each other again and form a continuous fine network : and the milk solidifies , or curdles . Thus , if you add lemon juice to regular milk , it will curdle and thicken , just as milk does when it sours naturally or when it is fermented into yogurt , kefir , cultured buttermilk , etc. ( which all involve bacteria that acidify the milk ) . The same process happens if you add acid to condensed milk .
This video of Alton Brown - Good Eats explains it way better than I ever can . <URL> If your bottle of wine turned to vinegar you probably have some " mother " at the bottom of that bottle that you can use in your next batch .
The preserving effect of canning is based on removing all bacteria and fungi ( normally present at least to some extent even in perfectly safe food ) by a combination of heat and pressure over a certain time preventing new bacteria or fungi from reaching the food by sealing the containers avoiding oxidation by sealing the cans sometimes supporting this by ingredients that are very inhospital for bacteria and fungi like acids ( pickles , anyone ? ) or sugar ( less available water ) . For your tuna , this means the heat/pressure of the canning process is sufficient to prevent spoilage for a long time . Special preservatives are typically not necessary . Checking the label should confirm this . If one brand should have choosen to add them nonetheless , you can pick another manufacturer .
Jennifer Frazer experimented with frozen coconut milk and wrote about it on her blog . The conclusion is that you can freeze cococnut milk . The taste is preserved , but the consistency is not . Jennifer writes : The thing is , you can still use it just fine for purposes that do n't depend on coconut milk 's texture or consistency ; Coconut milk is an emulsion of oils in water . To freeze and thaw the coconut milk is enough to affect the emulsion . You can compare the situation to cow 's milk . Cow 's milk is also an emulsion and the mouth feel will change if you freeze and thaw it . References : <URL> <URL>
Olives ( and onions ) are a very traditional garnish used by bartenders to add a slightly savory flavor to a drink . As with many things behind the bar , they 're used nowadays largely because they 're iconic , but they do have a subtle effect on flavor . It 's not really known where traditional garnishes such as citrus peels , cherries , olives/onions , and mint sprigs originated , but they 're found in the earliest known published bartender 's manual . ( This was <URL> ' How to Mix Drinks or the Bon-Vivant 's Companion ; cocktail historian David Wondrich 's book <URL> , which reorganizes and provides context for the original , is required reading for the modern cocktail nerd . ) These garnishes may have started with early drink families called cobblers and juleps which feature fresh berries and mint , respectively . Over time , drinks got more elaborate and drinkers came to expect something added to their drinks to give them more visual appeal . <URL> . At first , as seen in other early bartending guides , bartenders just tossed whatever they had ( usually preserved or pickled items that kept well including nuts , olives , and cherries ) into the drink on hand . Eventually they sorted themselves out and figured out that olives or onions went best with savory drinks such as the Martini , and cherries went best with sweeter drinks such as the Manhattan . The tradition solidified a few years before <URL> in the US , and was one of the practices that survived the resulting upheaval in drinking traditions . In the 1950s , Martini practices grew more variable ; when ordering , you 'd be quizzed about whether you wanted vodka or gin , shaken or stirred , an olive or a twist , without any particular standard . The olive may have become even more tightly associated with the Martini later on , when drinks began skewing to sweet and fruity in the late 1960s and 1970s , and fresh citrus started disappearing behind the bar . For whatever reason , bartenders also seem to have forgotten how to store vermouth ( which , since it 's a wine , will go off if stored at room temperature and allowed to oxidize ) and the olives may have been the only thing preventing Martinis from being unpleasantly bitter . By the 1980s , the " dirty " Martini ( which adds a dash or more of olive brine ) emerged as one of the few options for drinkers who wanted a non-sweet cocktail at a bar . Fortunately , we 've now come full circle , and a Martini closer to the original pre-Prohibition version can be found at many cocktail bars ( usually with a twist of lemon peel ) . But the olive has now been firmly established as the traditional Martini garnish for multiple generations . One of the main reasons that the briny olive works as a garnish is because a small amount of salt is a flavor enhancer , which is why just about every savory dish that we eat ( and some sweet ones , ala salted caramel ) contain at least some salt . There are n't many drinks where salt is added directly , but there are certain drinks ( such as the <URL> ) where it 's an important part of the flavor , and <URL> with a culinary background use a couple drops of salt solution in almost all of their drinks . Some people particularly like this in a Martini , especially if that 's what they 're used to . So , the tl ; dr : It 's now seen as traditional , some people really like the salty flavor it adds , and it works pretty well in a largely savory drink like the Martini .
I 'm used ( since childhood ) to eat ptitim that are only a little firmer than al dente . I 've never had 5mm ones , though .
end question
start question
Lots of water coming out of chicken breasts when cooking in pan . Why ?
Liquid naturally comes out of all meats as they cook . If you 're using high heat and a frying pan , you do n't really notice it because it evaporates quickly . That brown stuff you see in a frying pan after cooking meat on high heat are the evaporated juices . If you 're baking them at around 350 F , you 'll also notice water being released . This is amplified if you overcrowd the cooking vessel . You do n't see it in a whole roasted chicken or roast beef for example because the liquid coming out caramelizes and creates those lovely browned bits to make a sauce or gravy . I doubt that WF is selling water and phosphate tumbled chicken breasts .
Which pan should I use ? Volume of a regular muffins 1/3 cup equals about 79 ml 1/4 cup equals about 60 ml -- > I take the average of both : 70ml per regular muffin Volume of mini muffins 1/8 cup equals about 30 ml 2 tablespoons equal about 20 ml -- > I take the average of both : 25ml per mini muffin Total volume 24 mini muffins ⋅ 25 ml/mini muffin + 4 ⋅ 70 ml/regular muffin = 880 ml = 880 cm ³ batter Using the 8x8 pan 8 " ⋅ 8 " = 20.32 cm ⋅ 20.32 cm ≈ 413 cm ² . Height of the unbaked cake : 880 cm ³ / 413 cm ² ≈ 2 cm ≈ 0,75 " . Using the 9x13 pan 9 " ⋅ 13 " = 22.86 cm ⋅ 33.02 cm ≈ 755 cm ² . Height of the unbaked cake : 800 cm ³ / 755 cm ² ≈ 1 cm ≈ 0,4 inches . I assume that baked muffins will gain the same the volume as the volume of the unbaked batter . Or at least 3/4 of their original volume . The cake without streusel topping in the 8 " x 8 " pan will be 4 cm or 1,5 " thick and the cake in the 9 " x 13 " pan will be 2 cm or 0,8 " thick on the average . After baking , the cake in the 8 " x 8 " pan might look like a <URL> :D After adding streusel topping , I assume you cake will be 1 cm thicker . To prevent extreme doming and to have a shorter baking time I recommend using the 9 " x 13 " pan . Baking time Some receipes in my cook / baking book say that pound cakes backed directly on a sheet pan take about 25 to 30 minutes at 180 ° C / 356F ( in an electric oven ) to de done . You should still check your cake continuously after 15 minutes . image sources : <URL> <URL>
As a child , I used to hate the feel and taste when I conciously bit on a piece of onion ( strongest offender : medium-sized chunks , sautéed glassy but still firm ) . Sometimes that still happens . However , I use onion a lot myself now in cooking . Lots of dishes really need the kind of taste onions can supply ; even though that taste may by itself be a bit gross , it 's really useful in the mix . ( This is true for many other ingredients as well ! ) I can only speak for myself , but very likely , there are some dishes where you do n't even notice that onions are in , but they are -- and you would n't like it if they were n't ! Do use onions , just do it consciously . There are broadly three ways of preparing them that I consider effective , each suited to different cases : Disperse them throughout the dish . Either chop them really fine and saut&eacute;e ( with the right technique and a decent knife you can get the chunks down to only a few millimetres ) , or boil with other vegetables and then pur&eacute;e . You 'll get all the good taste , but nowhere too strong and without any unpleasant mouth-feel . Ideal for light/creamy sauces or soups . Caramelise them boldly . Frying changes the taste of onions a lot , it makes them much sweeter , gets rid of the pungency in exchange for a really concentrated savouriness , and almost completely tames the consistency . Browned onions play great together with strong seasonings like garlic and pepper , as flavouring for chewy mushrooms or meats . Or the opposite : keep them mostly raw ! The freshness and crunch of raw onions can also be very useful without evoking what I call the bad onion effect -- albeit in a completely different way . Thinly sliced in salads , or very quickly stir-fried in rice dishes , you keep the raw pungency in check while staying clear of the uncanny softness . Again , it 's a good idea to define the taste heading with other sharp flavours : vinegar or chilies work well . Perhaps you wo n't be able to befriend yourself with all of these preparation methods , but you should give them a try .
Getting the Vanilla from the bean to the taste bud takes time . While many will advocate the use of fresh vanilla beans ( as you have tried ) , I have always preferred the flavor that is granted from a good vanilla extract . In my opinion it is stronger and better distributed throughout the dish . Whether you buy or <URL> I think you will get a more consistent and rich flavor that way . ( note : thanks to @rfusca for providing the extract link in a <URL> )
All moving water has dissolved oxygen in it . That is what fish breath Dissolved oxygen is reactive , and will most likely extract more substances from the tea leaf , than without it . If these are the good flavour parts of tea , I do not know ? When you heat water it starts to release the dissolved oxygen . The more you heat water the more oxygen escapes You can buy tea making kettles that bring water up to 95 ° C ( 203 ° F ) , but not boiling , so as to decrease the amount of dissolved oxygen lost , but still making the water hot enough to brew tea . They also save energy :-) I use one of these , and am happy with it <URL> Some people " watch " their kettle , and switch it off just before the water boils ! It is a personal taste preference if tea tastes better when brewed in water with more dissolved oxygen or not
The USDA NAL <URL> : Refuse : 20 % Refuse Description : Bone In addition , you can compare the serving size weight of the breast with skin ( 145 g ) to the weight of the <URL> ( 118 g ) , each derived from 1/2 chicken breast , so the skin accounts for about 18.6 % of the deboned breast and 14.9 % of the bone-in breast ( accounting for the earlier 20 % ) . All in , it looks like a bone-in breast with skin is slightly more than 65 % meat . Breast meat is generally the most expensive part of the chicken to buy , even bone-in ; if economy is really a factor here than you really should consider using the whole chicken .
Ok , first of all make sure you are getting French or Italian truffles , not Chinese or Oregon . Some people like the latter but they are quite a bit different . Black truffles do well cooked , while white truffles are usually only used shaved raw over a dish . When I use them , I like to use them in a situation where I will really be able to taste them . A few classic ideas are an omelette , risotto , or pasta with a cream sauce . Those all carry the flavor and aroma of truffles very well . Chop some of it very fine and put it in the dish and then slice the rest paper thin ( with a mandoline if possible ) over the finished food right before serving .
Adding oil or butter makes scrambled eggs more creamy by giving the egg protein something to hold onto and not curl as tight . The ideal formula for scrambled eggs is one extra yolk for every 4 eggs plus a little fat . I did n't like scrambled eggs until I tried this formula and it 's awesome . Credit goes to either Jack Bishop ( Cooks Illustrated ) and/or Nathan Myhrvold ( Modernist Cuisine ) unfortunately I ca n't remember which of the two clever gents I heard it from .
The party line from <URL> is to : Cut out the stems , wash , and blanche for about 2 minutes Dry Store in freezer bags with as little air as possible They indicate you will get about a year of storage from this method . That being said , the method you propose is well known for herbs , and kale is certainly much heartier than an herb . It should work very well , given that the application is a smoothie and you do n't mind having the kale pureed already . It should keep the kale usable for a year or so as well . So the main issue with the traditional method is , are you willing to blanche your kale ? I know not everyone is . If you use kale for other dishes and have to blend your daily smoothie anyway , you might use the standard method , and store it in daily sized batches , thus giving you the ability to use it for either a smoothie or some other dish .
Would n't it have to do with insulation ? A heavy , well insulated cake pan results in less doming of the cake . If you 're baking a layer cake you want minimal doming which mean less trimming to get everything even . Also , I believe you 're supposed to get a more uniform texture since the rise is more even .
The fat in your dough started to soften/melt - especially if you have a hot oven running in the kitchen . Keep your dough cold in the fridge between batches . See <URL> for more details on the issue in general , but for your situation , keep it cold between batches . You seem to have started correctly , which is good - you just have to keep it going right .
If you boiled the eggs but left them in the pot of water , you may be in luck . The shell should keep the rotten egg safe from cracking and exposing the apartment to the truly rancid smell of spoilt eggs , assuming they have n't cracked during boiling . You will know a spoiled egg when you crack open the shell . Whether raw or cooked , a spoiled egg will have an unpleasant odor . No question about it : throw it out . - <URL> What you will probably find when you get home are unmolested eggs in a stagnant pot of water . Throw the eggs out if they have n't cracked . They WILL be spoilt . <URL> describes why . <URL> ( similar information can be found from other food agencies ) : Why do hard-cooked eggs spoil faster than fresh eggs ? When shell eggs are hard cooked , the protective coating is washed away , leaving bare the pores in the shell for bacteria to enter and contaminate it . Hard-cooked eggs should be refrigerated within 2 hours of cooking and used within a week . Simply put , you 're damaging the shell , and that expedites spoilage . If you 're unlucky and the eggs did crack ... well , the water might absorb some of the scent , but after four weeks , you 're still likely going to have some odor . Throw the eggs out , pour the water out , throughly clean the pot , and try to air your apartment out as best you can .
<URL> is a report entitled " Change in sodium content of potato , pasta and rice with different cooking methods " . So the " scientific answer " is : The sodium content in pasta cooked with different levels of salt increased approximately linearly with the amount of salt added to the cooking water . Pasta cooked in 4g salt/100g raw took up on average 28 mg Na/100g whereas when cooked in 40g/100g raw this increased approximately 10 fold to 230 mg Na/100g . HTH ! PS : This may help you forget the Na intake temporally
To release the bone marrow , which is excellent source of protein and has medicinal properties .
One of the best ways I 've found to remove ants from the bread is to put it into the oven at a light temperature . Out of the frying pan and into the fire .
Liquid naturally comes out of all meats as they cook . If you 're using high heat and a frying pan , you do n't really notice it because it evaporates quickly . That brown stuff you see in a frying pan after cooking meat on high heat are the evaporated juices . If you 're baking them at around 350 F , you 'll also notice water being released . This is amplified if you overcrowd the cooking vessel . You do n't see it in a whole roasted chicken or roast beef for example because the liquid coming out caramelizes and creates those lovely browned bits to make a sauce or gravy . I doubt that WF is selling water and phosphate tumbled chicken breasts .
If you cool a pan too quickly it could deform , especially if your using a cheap pan . A cast iron pan could crack . This is most likely to happen if you dip a hot pan in cold water . If you want to get a jump-start on cleaning , de-glaze the pan with a cup of water as you would when making gravy . Pour off this liquid and set the pan aside to cool completely .
Use a <URL> . Just fill it up with a big handful of spinach , and give it a good squeeze in the sink , or over a bowl if you like to drink spinach water . It extracts a ton of liquid quickly , and is a breeze to clean up when you are done .
Go for 145 . 2 hours . Salmonella dies even at " low " temperatures ( from 135 ) as long as you cook it for longer . 135 for at least 87 minutes , will kill salmonella . However , I like it best when cooked at 145 for 2 hours .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
end question
start question
Hot tea to iced . Safe ?
Please see <URL> which gives the very strict FDA guidelines for iced tea as : Iced tea sould be brewed at 195 F for 3-5 minutes . Iced tea should be stored for no longer than 8 hours . The tea brewer , storage dispenser , and faucet should be cleaned daily . while pointing out that " Tea is a beverage with little history of disease transmission . " Applying some common sense , assuming that you : Keep all of your tea equipment " impeccably clean " as Julia Child used to say Do not leave it very long at room temperature Refrigerate it thereafter given that tea does not have a huge number of nutrients to encourage pathogen growth , the risk should be minimal , although non-zero . You must assess your own tolerance for risk , but this is not an activity that is inherently highly dangerous . Finally , please note that modern refrigerators perform very well , and there is minimal heating of the other foods , even if you put a fairly large volume of tea in the refrigerator to cool . See : <URL>
Charcoal can get to 700 degrees F but in normal use you 're more likely to be in the 500F range . In order to get to the higher end of charcoal 's abilities there are a couple things you can do : Use natural <URL> , not briquettes . Lower the grill grate to within 1 " of the hot coals If 1 &amp; 2 do n't get you enough heat , consider using the Alton Brown <URL> ( Setup starts around the 8 minute mark )
Whey is an excellent source of protein and whey protein in particular is used in many body-building supplements . Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . Drink Up ! -- The acidic tang of whey may be a bit of an acquired tasted but I actually find it refreshing . Cultured whey has pro-biotics that can help balance the microflora in your gut as an extra bonus to the protein . The web page gives a lot of information about whey and the many other uses for it as well as a great tip for storing . Hope this helps !
I do n't think it 's your fault . Mates do n't break that often . Besides , I 've seen a lot of people drink it hotter than me without any problems . As for preparation , it was recommended to me the following : Place the leaves in the mate Add a little bit of cold water Add hot water When and how you put the straw is a whole other chapter !
If you wish to explore adding spiciness to a dish , there are two primary methods for increasing the heat : additive and reductive . The one you choose will depend on the dish and what you are trying to get out of it . For something like a simple oil and pasta dish , the latter may be preferable , whereas with something like a three meat chili the former may be better . One that I could n't quite class was thermal . The capsaicin acts on the VR1 Ion Channel , which is somewhat heat dependent . At higher heat ( in excess of 42 ' C/107 ' F ) , <URL> . You may want to avoid reducing the heat of the dish when served . However , this was dependent on a higher ambient temperature , so your subject may need to have a fever or something . For the findings : Instead , heat had a localized effect on the reduction of long closures between bursts ( of ionic receptivity ) ... and the elongation of burst durations . ... Both membrane lipids and solution ionic strength affected the temperature threshold of the activation , but neither diminished the response Reductive Methods If you wish to simplify your dish , reductive methods would be ideal . They are simply ones in which you would analyze the ingredients that you are using in your dish , assessing which ones either water down or act as solvents of the capsaicin , and then remove them . Capsaicin is lipophilic , fat soluble . If you have dairy products , excess fat from meat that could have been rendered , and so on , I would remove or substitute these as possible . Alcohol in some contexts can dissolve the capsaicin , however does not typical work in this fashion when consumed or if combined in the same dish ( i.e. if the capsaicin has nowhere to dissolve ) . Additive Methods If you are not concerned about adding complexity , additive methods may be ideal . This approach will include not just adding a given capsaicin medium , but could also include adding a variety of them . This would also include adding items like beer , tomato , or really any carbonated , acidic , or alcoholic liquid that enhance expression of flavors generally and not just of capsaicin . If you add only one medium ( ground cayenne , capsaicin extract , etc ) , you will have only one form of the spiciness . The concentration and distribution of the capsaicin will be singular . If you think about the dishes ' ingredients as a range of slots to fill , food preparation will only distribute the capsaicin of the capsaicin medium into a given number and type of slots . However , if you utilize a number of capsaicin media , then the range of slots will begin to open up and the expression of the spiciness will become more diverse . Although I am unsure how to express this in chemical terms , I think that this is a decent way of explaining the phrase " the heat builds . " A " building heat " is one that relies on more than one capsaicin medium ; a good case for this might be a 4-pepper chili where the heat is derived from multiple types of hot peppers .
On another couple of sites ( <URL> for starters ) I found the answer to this . It appears that mould is expected sometimes in the Pancetta making process and as a general rule of thumb as long as it is n't too green and furry then it should be OK . I 've followed Ruhlman 's advice and dabbed the spots of mould with a vinegar soaked cloth and it wiped straight off and looks fine . My meat was coming up to the end of it 's hanging time anyway so rather than worry about it further I 've refrigerated it . I hope this helps anyone that stumbles across this with the same issue .
In short , the answer is no , it is NOT safe . <URL> It 's tempting to lop off the fuzzy patch , but the mold could have spread already . " Once you 're able to see mold on bread , it means there 's quite a lot of mold , " said Nelken , a food consultant in Woodland Hills , California . " It 's indicative that there 's mold on other slices , just not at the level you can see it . Why jeopardize your health on a slice of bread ? " Nelken likened mold to jellyfish . " Even though you scrape off the head of the jellyfish , the tentacles are still in the food product . " Eating moldy bread could cause an upset stomach . Although most molds are innocuous , it 's probably not going to taste good , food experts said . The U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service recommends discarding moldy bread and baked goods , because of their porous texture .
These products are called thickeners . Gum Arabic is often used for this as well as karageenan , xanthan gum , sometimes corn starch or potato starch . You have to experiment with the different thickeners so you get the consistency you want .
I would not eat any soup containing meat more than a day or two after it was cooked , and certainly not if it smelled suspicious . The logic with this kind of thing is simple . If you have any doubts , chuck it out . Not getting food poisoning is worth losing a little soup over .
Alright . I did it . I took photos , but it might be only later before I can upload them . The Equipment . Small macchinetta , enough for two small tea glasses . The Process . I put about half the height of the holding chamber . In retrospect , I could have gone even 2/3rd of the height . Edit : I just opened up the pot , to clean it up , it seems that my amount was right on the money . After the second pot the leaves expanded even more . I think that a third pot could have been made with them as well . End edit . I poured water to the appropriate height ( or a bit less ) , and put it on the stove on a low heat until there was some noise that indicated that more or less the tea is ready . The first serving was weak . But that was expected , my dad remarked that it 's normal for the first washing to be weak . So we did a second run . The result was pretty good . It would have been better if I padded up the tea leaves , but it was pretty nice . The Consequences . I would n't recommend this method over pouring hot water through the tea leaves ( not steeping ) . But the experiment was fun ! Thanks for the two answerers that reassured me that this is doable .
One tablespoon is three teaspoons , so no , it ca n't be considered half a tablespoon because it 's one-third instead :) You can use three teaspoons to measure out one tablespoon , but it might be tricky to measure the other way : as Rumstacio said below , the 1/3 is by volume , and it can be difficult to eyeball the volume of a semi-sphere ( 1.3 the height of the spoon is not 1/3 the volume because it 's wider at the top ) .
The original Buffalo Wings are made with <URL> . The original recipe is simply equal parts melted butter and hot sauce . However , you truly can use just about whatever hot sauce you want in even greater ratios if you want more kick . There are also some distributors that specialize in spicy wing sauces . I recommend <URL> if you are adventurous and enjoy a very nice kick of heat .
The flexible generalist thermometer of the kitchen , the instant read thermometer , should be quite suitable measuring the temperature of the water for tea brewing . It covers the right range , has reasonable accuracy , and responds relatively quickly . You can get traditional ones such as the <URL> very inexpensively , or high quality electronic ones such as the <URL> , as well as a large number of mid-range models that offer excellent value , accuracy , and reasonable response time . Many come with a clip that would allow you to set them on the side of a pot , but you would not attach them to kettle . Instead , you hold them in , and they register the temperature in a few seconds ( depending on the model ) -- thus the name , instant read .
Unless your hot water tank is very close to your hot water tap , this is a very energy inefficient . As Jefromi notes it would be faster to boil water in a electric kettle first , and then pour it into the pan . Put the pan on the heat at the same time if you are really in a hurry Hot water systems are normally hot enough ( above 55 ° C , 130 ° F ) to keep water borne nasties at bay , plus if you are on town supply water it will be chlorinated etc Normally on the first few meters of hot water pipe are copper , then it switched to normal crimped plastic plumbing . This will vary depending on your local building codes The rate at which pipes lose their heat would ensure it never sits in the danger area for long , not that I think this is a big issue for clean plain water In general , modern copper pipes are not soldered , they are crimped using special hand tools Old or non-renovated houses may still be 100 % copper pipes that have been soldered . This poses no extra safety risks with just clean water in the pipes
According to ( US ) <URL> : ( c ) In accordance with § 184.1 ( b ) ( 1 ) , the ingredient is used in food with no limitations other than current good manufacturing practice . ( d ) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived . Basically , you can eat the stuff by the spoon-full if you can stand the sour . If you 're adding a lot compared to how much you think you should have to add , you might consider Phosphoric acid instead . You get a little <URL> with that , and it too , within limits , is generally regarded as safe ( GRAS ) .
It is perfectly safe to eat ( when produced , transported , and so on under sanitary conditions , just like any other edible meat ) . In some cultures it is considered a delicacy ; in others , it is not considered appropriate to eat , but those issues of cultural norms , not of safety . The news is because it is a violation of trust ( truth in labeling ) in a cultural background where horses are not normally eaten . Personally , I might wonder what other shortcuts the purveyor had taken if they are lying about content ...
You have basically made tea-flavoured vodka . The <URL> ( for essential oil ) is unrelated to the <URL> for the beverage . Commercially , tea tree oil is produced by <URL> , specifically <URL> . Though possible to obtain leaves and perform the distillation , it 's probably not practical on a small scale outside of the tea tree production regions . For completeness , <URL> is toxic ; you do n't want to eat it . What you used was conventional tea leaves . The tea beverage is made by steeping ( soaking in hot water ) leaves of the <URL> , which have been dried or otherwise prepared ( e.g. , fermented , roasted , etc. ) .
What is wrong with a regular ice cube ? As you state that the tea is not yet ready , you just use slightly less water and then add the ice cube , which has a fixed temperature . I use this for large scale ice tea production . As I use 1:1 hot water : ice cubes I simply brew a double strong tea .
The vanilla chapter of Ian Hemphill 's " Spice and Herb Bible " says , Vanilla is also delicious in savory cooking because it is not overtly sweet . An innovative Mauritian restaurant in Sydney served a delicious vanilla chicken [ ... ] It was aromatic delicate and beautifully balanced . The same book has a recipe for Vanilla Salmon Salad where vanilla seeds are scraped into the dressing . I did a quick taste test using vanilla extract with various savory things from my fridge . Here are the results : Cheese : tasted fine , but I would n't call it a taste sensation ; Vegeburger : nasty combination ; I think the leeks in the burger were a problem ; Avocado : actually quite a nice combination ; Roasted aubergine : not bad ; Tomato : fine ; Savory omelet : not good ; onions do n't seem to work with vanilla extract ; Baked beans in tomato sauce : very nice . Note that using vanilla extract and a vanilla bean to flavor a dish are not the same thing . There is an amount of alcohol in the vanilla extract I used ( bourbon ) and this may completely invalidate the test . Having said that , the first indications are that alliums ( onions , leeks , garlic etc ) do n't go with vanilla . So onion soup may not be a good plan . And since curry generally contains plenty of onion and garlic , I 'm skeptical about using it there too . Turning to the question of whether vanilla and vanillin become dangerous when heated , the answer is almost certainly no . That does n't mean that heating vanilla is inconsequential . Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " mentions that vanilla beans contain more than 200 volatile compounds and notes , Prepared vanilla extracts [ ... ] are best added toward the end of cooking ; any period of time spent at a high temperature causes aroma loss . On the other hand , heating vanillin at normal cooking temperatures ( i.e. normal for soup and curry ) is not a problem . Its <URL> . As another answer mentions , vanilla has a more complex taste to pure vanillin . Most of what you will read comparing the two will be very much in favor of using real vanilla beans in cooking . Instead of repeating this advice , I 'm reminded of having read that in a Cook 's Illustrated <URL> to synthetic vanillin , the artificial flavoring came out on top . It 's probably not be enough to conclude that vanillin tastes better than vanilla but may encourage you to forge ahead if vanillin is all you can afford . Update : Having read @papin 's suggestion that you may need to caramelize the onions , I just did a quick taste test with rostad lök ( not sure how it translates from Swedish , the literal translation is toasted onion ) . It tasted slightly better but still not great . Again , I 'm using vanilla extract so my taste test is not necessarily valid .
Safe ? Or good to eat ? Pesticides usually do n't penetrate thick-skinned produce ( oranges , etc ) , so as long as you 're not using the skin , there 's not a lot to worry about . They 're not the best pumpkins to use for other reasons ( linked in comments ) . In summary , the smaller " sugar " pumpkin is better for cooking , if you have the option .
end question
start question
Is there any advantage of applying dry rub overnight for baby back ribs for smoking ?
Many people have strong opinions on when to apply a rub -- some say to allow at least a few hours and preferably overnight . Others literally apply it as they are putting them in the smoker/oven . Since people do it both ways and both claim to end up with terrific , moist ribs , whatever effect this might have is probably small . It may change aspects of the " glazing " effect that a rub might give , depending on what is in the rub . A rub left on for a longer period will become more mushy and more like a paste or a glaze/sauce , while a rub put on fresh before cooking wo n't have time to become as moist . You will get slightly more flavor penetration with a longer rest , but there are diminishing returns there too after the first hour or two . I do n't have experimental evidence to back this up , but I think the " early rub will dry things out " argument is pretty flimsy from a food science perspective . It is true that rubs which contain significant amounts of salt , sugar , or other hydrophilic substances will cause some moisture to come out of the meat . On the other hand , most people tend to cook ribs for quite a few hours anyway ( and some smoke them for many hours ) , so the rub will have plenty of time to draw out that moisture regardless of whether you put it on ahead or time or right before cooking . It 's not like you 're salt-curing the meat and leaving the salt on it for months . Once the salt ( and/or sugar ) draws out the moisture from the outermost thin layer of meat , it generally takes much longer for moisture to migrate from inner parts of the meat . That surface layer of meat will release most of its moisture within an hour or so after you put salt or sugar or whatever on . So , even if you put your rub on immediately before putting it in the smoker , that moisture will tend to be drawn out in the first part of the cooking time . Adding a few more hours or even overnight to the rub should n't result in significantly more moisture loss from the meat 's interior -- and the exterior will always dry out a bit as it cooks anyway . Moreover , you are n't generally draining away moisture from the surface . With ribs , you often have them wrapped up to rest , which means the meat sits in that moisture . And guess what ? About 10-15 minutes in , the brine produced by the moisture combined with the salt in the rub will begin to break down the outer muscle structure of the meat and cause it to absorb more moisture than usual , so much of that liquid lost will be reabsorbed back into the meat within an hour or so . ( Note that the <URL> with some of the other spice compounds which are in the rub , so there is perhaps some flavor advantage to applying the rub at least a little in advance . On the other hand , again this mostly affects only the outermost layer of meat , so more than an hour or two probably wo n't make more significant changes in the flavor . ) If you 're talking about searing a steak , when you salt it might have some impact , since you generally <URL> at the point at which moisture is being released at the maximum rate . But for ribs or anything with a long slow cooking time ? It 's really not a big issue . As mentioned above , the larger effect will generally be what happens to the rub as it sits on the meat for many hours . You may find that the change in texture there may change the final appearance or texture of the outer surface . But the idea that the interior will dry out significantly ? It does n't seem likely .
You are correct : Cupcakes are just regular sponge cakes cooked in approximately cup-sized tins .
Yes you can use 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) of light/dark corn syrup : You can use any of the following substitutions : 1 cup of honey 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) maple syrup plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) light or dark corn syrup plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) light molasses plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 1 1/4 cups ( 250 grams - 265 grams ) granulated white or brown sugar plus 1/4 cup ( 60 ml ) additional liquid in recipe plus 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar Courtesy of <URL>
We get a bushel of apples every year and make and freeze pies . We do a double crust without problem . We put a couple of tablespoons of flour on the bottom for the juices , but we do that for fresh pie as well . We use tin and pyrex , whatever we can get our hands on . The main concerns we have is the apples juicing too much in the pie , so we assemble and freeze them as fast as possible . ( And we made 18 two weeks ago Saturday ) so every time one is done we run it down to the freeze to freeze it immediately , we freeze them uncooked . Do n't thaw the pie as again the fruit will have time to juice . We unwrap it ( we wrap ours in plastic wrap and then foil to protect the foil from some of the acidic fruits ) and put it in the cold oven and start cooking it as normal . My family has frozen , apricot , apple , and blackberry . Also when doing the pies en mass like this , we roll our open crusts for the holidays as well , since the mess is already made . These are for the pumpkin , banana , and chocolate pies . The crusts alone we do let thaw before cooking , as they cook so fast .
There is no problem at all doing this . At a restaurant where I worked , we would make up a couple pounds of butter worth of roux at a time . The main thing you want to do is use a pan with a lot of surface area , so it cooks evenly . A whisk will work fine . You do n't have to stir constantly , just frequently .
I agree that you can get some good meat from the head and could use it to flavour Bouillabaisse , i would n't however use it for stock as oily fish can lead to a cloudy fatty stock rather than the clearer and more flavoursome fish stock that can be derived from the off cuts and bones from white fish .
When I was a kid , we used to run over them with the car . Put a bunch in the driveway and drive over them so they got a single pass from a tire . That usually crushed a few beyond help , but just split the majority open nicely . They were still a lot of trouble to pick from the hulls , and ultimately not very nice to eat , IMO .
The bakers couche is not just floured fabric , it is usually a hard wearing canvas It is used to allow the dough to breath , and hold it 's shape while your actual bread moulds are being used in the oven . The all over air gap allow the crust to dry slightly . A dry crust makes it easier to handle and bakes slightly more crispy The flour is there to stop the soft dough from sticking to the canvas , but a with careful handling and a well worn in couche this should not happen If you keep the couche dry it should not develop mold or mildew . Even if it does , leave it out in the sunshine , so that the UV light can deal to it . I ca n't imagine that the occasional normal household mold is going to form dangerous toxins that can survive the oven ! After use , give the couche a good brush down with a clean fine bristled brush , and store somewhere dry If you have plenty of the fine perforated steel moulds , you wont need to use a couche , just use the pans
You ca n't just pick up any old wood chips but you can get ones for cooking at the hardware store . Even Home Depot or Lowes should have wood-for-smoking available . You have to be careful since if you get chips made out of treated lumber for example the resulting smoke could be poisonous . Probably not something you want to eat . You also want to avoid poisonous wood or trees . Warnings aside , you can use just about any non-poisonous hardwood to make woodchips . Just make chunks or chips out of nice dry seasoned logs . Usually , people use wood with interesting favors to add such as fruit tree woods ( apple , pear , cherry ) . Other popular woods are mesquite , hickory , or maple .
The answer , quite simply , is no . Even advanced laboratories have difficulty making the determination for certain . This is also a complex problem that gets more difficult as various standards are used and then fail . Before 2000 , a common solution was to simply use microscopic analysis to look for pollen and and other vegetable matter . Since then , many honey processing plants have been developing increasingly advanced filtering techniques that will remove the characteristic markers ( deliberately or unintentionally ) . [ ** See detailed note below . ] Various chemical or basic physical markers also have proved insufficient , since the sugar composition of honey can be faked quite well with various sugar syrup blends . The accepted standard these days , as mentioned in the question , seems to be to use a mass spectrometer to determine the <URL> in a rather specific lab procedure . ( Obviously most people do n't have a mass spectrometer at home . ) The current procedure for this test was adopted after previous lab tests were shown to <URL> in some batches of honey . The isotope ratio method is the only one specifically listed in the FDA 's <URL> to determine the possibility of adulteration : FDA laboratories do not have the instrumental capability to analyze honey according to the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC International , AOAC Official Method 991.41 , which requires an isotope ratio mass spectrometer . Ironically , in order to avoid the previous false positives for the New Zealand honey mentioned above , the new testing process <URL> , a process which has also been used to hide the origin of honey and to confuse analysis : To eliminate a false positive C ( 4 ) sugar test for Manuka honey , prior removal of pollen and other insoluble material from the honey is necessary to ensure that only the pure protein is isolated . But even a refined isotopic methodology is flawed when it comes to detecting various types of adulteration , specifically beet sugar . As <URL> notes : [ Using isotope ratios from a mass spectrometer , ] adulteration using C4 sugar syrups ( HFCS and GS ) could be detected to a certain extent while adulteration of honey using C3 sugar syrups ( beet sugar ) could not be detected . Adulteration by using SS ( beet sugar ) still has a serious detection problem , especially in countries in which beet is used in manufacturing sugar . So , what 's the alternative ? Well , the other general method that could detect various adulterating components is <URL> ( DSC ) . <URL> gives a good summary of the process , which essentially looks at how a material behaves as it undergoes thermal changes . At certain temperatures when crystallization or something occurs , there will be excess heat absorbed or given off compared to at other temperatures . And at other points there will be minor changes in heat capacity ( i.e. , the amount of heat it takes to alter the temperature of a substance by a specific number of degrees ) . Honey , for example , displays a glass transition temperature ( Tg ) around -40 ° C ( -40 ° F ) near a certain point in crystallization . Other sugar syrups may not show this , but they may show changes at slightly higher temperatures ( still below freezing ) , due to water crystals freezing or thawing . ( Water is included in the sugar network in honey , so it does n't show the same characteristics . ) There are other thermal properties that can be measured at various temperatures . As <URL> summarizes in its conclusion : Used concomitantly with the second enthalpy of fusion ( occurring between 40 and 90 ° C ) , the glass transition temperature , Tg , is one of the most potentially useful parameters for characterizing honeys and syrups and for distinguishing between them . The Tg value , being strongly dependent on the amorphous phases of the sample , will respond to modification of the chemical composition and the implicit structural modification caused by the addition of exogenous material . Thus , adulteration of the honey will cause inevitable changes in both Tg and [ delta ] H2 values . Under laboratory conditions , adulterations by industrial sugar syrups can be detected from 5-10 % additions depending on the measured parameter . I would pay particular attention to this final sentence -- the differences can only be detected " under laboratory conditions " where precise temperatures and amounts of heat can be measured . To replicate such a test at home , you 'd need to be able to add a certain precise amount of heat to the honey at subzero temperatures , all the while keeping it isolated from other sources of temperature fluctuations and observing where the heating " stalls " briefly . Then , you 'd have to calibrate your homemade test against some known samples ( syrups , 100 % honey , etc. ) just to be sure you 're actually observing the same things as in the article cited here . You 'd need to confirm that by observing a more subtle difference in heat capacity changes that would occur in hot temperature ranges
Back meat on poultry tends to be rubbery , inaccessible , and there is relatively little of it . The meat is almost like other dark meat but is found only in thin sheets . Also since , during tradition roasting the back meat is down in the pan , it tends to be less cooked than is pleasant for dark meat . It is n't practical to try and carve it because it is a ton of effort for just a little bit of not-very-good meat . After carving off the major cuts I will use my hands to pull off any useful scraps - including some of the larger pieces of back meat . I save these pieces for my standard poultry scraps applications : pie , soup , and enchiladas . Whatever is left gives up it 's goodness into the broth when the carcass is boiled and is then fed , with the spent carcass , back to the chickens .
Tamarind gives a sour and slightly molasses note to food , including rendang . To replicate it , you thus need something sour , like lemon juice , and a dark sugar flavour , like black treacle , molasses , or dark brown sugar . For your recipe I would add 2 tablespoons of lemon juice and 1 tablespoon of dark brown sugar .
When you cut any food you expose the cut surface to oxygen , which causes chemical changes due to oxidation . You also expose the cut surface to microbes and organisms which break down food . Both of these will impact the quality of cut meat or fish , so yes a filet cut from a whole fish just before cooking would be fresher and better quality than one cut some time before . The effect is not great , however . If you had a whole fish and cut one filet from it the day before , then cut the other filet just before cooking both identically I doubt you would be able to tell any difference between the two . To me the reasons for buying a whole fish as opposed to filets is cost and choice . A whole fish is easier to judge for quality than a filet , you can see whether the eyes are cloudy or clear , for instance . Buying a whole fish is cheaper than buying the filets off of it because it 's much less work for the seller , so you can save some cash doing it yourself . However , fileting a fish is not that easy . It 's perfectly do-able at home and there 's loads of how-to videos but it 's still pretty involved and hard to do that well without lots of practice . It 's also messy time consuming , so when you buy filets it 's for the convenience of not having to do it yourself . The important thing is to make sure it 's fresh whether it 's whole or already prepped .
Good lord no . You have no idea how the drumsticks were treated or with what chemicals ( cyanide derivatives are often used in pressure-treated woods , for example ) . No . No no no no no .
No , it is n't possible to over soak wood chips , chunks , planks , or any other size that you want to throw on the grill ( within reason , I would n't soak them for weeks because the water would get scummy ) . In fact , the directions given often grossly underestimate optimal soaking time . I assume this is because the manufacturer does n't want to scare people off by saying " soak for 12-24 hours before use . " Wood smokes better when it 's wet . If it 's dry , it catches on fire and produces less smoke for a shorter period of time . What you really want is for the wood to be thoroughly wet so that it smolders rather than flames and produces lots of smoke for a long time . As you would expect , the larger the piece of wood , the longer it will smoke and the longer you need to soak it . My general soak times are as follows : Small Chips - These are very small , coin sized . Generally get totally saturated in 2-3 hours . Large Chips - Between Small Chips and Chunks . Soak for 12 - 24 hours . Chunks - These tend to be about 1/2 to a whole fist sized . These want to soak for at least 24 hours . Planks - For plank smoking . Soak for 8 - 12 hours . You can always soak for less time , you just wo n't get quite as much smoke production . Judge the need based on what you 're cooking . If you want a little smoke on a steak that you 're only cooking for 5-8 mins , then you do n't need to worry about it . If you 're trying to smoke salmon , it matters more . If you want to smoke a butt for 12 hours , it matters a lot .
From personal experiences , reading cookbooks , and making far too many baked goods I 've learned that it can be tricky to just adding extra ingredients while maintaining a universal base cake or cupcake recipe . However , with good judgment and some basic ingredients ratios you could come close to an archetype . Some ratios ( by weight ) of basic ingredients include : Pound Cake - 1 part each flour , eggs , fat , and sugar Butter Cake - 2 parts each flour , and sugar . 1 part each eggs and fat Beyond that here are some basic rules The ratio of sugar to flour should be 1 to 1 in most recipes , maybe slightly higher in the sugar side of things . Same with eggs , they should weigh about the same as your fats , possibly slightly more . In general liquids measurements ( including eggs ) should weigh the same as or more than the sugar . Eggs are in interesting ingredient . Whites tend to dry things out while yolks tend to make a richer more velvety texture . More yolks to whites ( like in a yellow cake ) make for creamer textures , the inverse make for drier more crumbly textures . Then comes leavening . A teaspoon of baking powder per cup of flour often does the trick . Adding extra ingredients however can throw off your recipe . Bananas for example can replace some of the sugars and some of the fats . Peanut-butter some of the flours and some of the fat . Adding enough chocolate chips , though they stay pretty much contained , may not interfere with the other ingredients but will increase the density of your recipe and may require additional cooking time . Adding coco powder instead of flour usually deems the need for more egg yolks and sugars . Really you just have to play around until you get a good feel for things .
Ideally , wood for smoking needs to be chipped , probably using a wood chipper though you could do small batches by hand using a chisel or bandsaw . Chips allows a greater surface area and gives a more consistent behaviour compared to large blocks of wood . Whether you need to dry of not depends on several factors such as how old the wood is ( I 've never used apple or fig to smoke personally ) and how much sap/sapwood it contains . While I have not tried with green wood , I suspect it would just take longer to catch as the fire you put it on will dry it naturally . Others on BBQ/smoking forums such as <URL> say they have tried it and it works fine but obviously YMMV . As for the bark - I would say for the smaller sticks where the bark is relatively thin then it 's fine to leave on , but with larger branches I would remove it . In some types of tree the bark contains more oil than the rest of the wood ( e.g. Birch ) , meaning you will get a blacker , sootier type of smoke that is generally undesirable for smoking food .
Peach and Apple wood are readily available , and I use them regularly for fish . You may find that since the wood is in fact considered treated , you may find it is in fact available ... Try here : <URL>
It seems the main thing you 're trying to do is avoid any work in the morning before bake . As suggested in comments , the easiest way to do that is to get a mechanical bread-maker . Since you say you 're inexperienced in bread-making , you can dump everything in the night before , program it with a time , and voila -- fresh bread in the morning . ( I do n't tend to like the loaf quality that comes out of most home bread-makers , though ; but if you find one that makes good bread , this is the best solution . ) That said , if you actually want to make the bread yourself , you can do what you want . It 's just going to require a lot of work the evening before . Many recipes can be adapted to do this , though it tends to work best with sourdough loaves . Basically , the technique works like this : Mix dough Knead First fermentation ( 1-3 hours , depending on yeast quantity and bread type ) Shape tightly , preferably with a pre-shaping and bench rest ( another 15 minutes ) Second fermentation , generally takes place entirely in fridge Place in fridge overnight Remove and bake immediately Jeffrey Hamelman suggests this for a number of sourdough recipes in his book Bread : A Baker 's Book of Techniques and Recipes . He also notes that it 's not necessary to let the dough come to room temperature before baking : assuming it has risen enough , you can remove it directly from the fridge and bake with little consequence . ( Also , just to reply to one notion in comments -- it is possible to bake bread starting from a cold oven . Many people prefer to do it that way , though the results tend to be a little less consistent and oven spring is generally a little less . If you do so , it might be easier to bake in a pot . But it would be possible to get up in the morning , turn your oven on , throw the bread in immediately , and have it baked maybe 30-45 minutes later , depending on the size of the loaf . For those who do n't believe me , <URL> who did a comparison of cold oven start vs. preheated and found little difference . ) My experience trying shaping before overnight retarding long ago is that it can work well for sourdough ( see method # 2 <URL> for more details ) , since the yeast tends to rise much more slowly in the fridge . The danger with normal baker 's yeast is that most recipes use too much yeast to make this method work -- what will happen is that your bread wo n't cool fast enough in the fridge , then the dough will overproof and collapse a bit in the oven , often with poor crust formation . Normally , when professional bakers retard pre-shaped dough in the fridge , they do so for only a couple hours , which tends to add flavor . For detailed instructions with illustrations and a recipe showing this , see <URL> . Basically , what you want to do is a similar thing to that recipe , but with less yeast , so you can refrigerate overnight . Unfortunately , that will tend to make your bulk rise go slower , which means a longer wait in the evening between steps . For more information and recipes online , I 'd try instead searching for something like " retarding after shaping , " which is the kind of recipe you 're looking for . You just need to find one that allows retarding for 8 hours or more , rather than just a couple hours . The other option is obtain sourdough cultures and try those recipes . Usually with them the pace of the yeast rise is appropriate for an overnight final proof in the fridge . Still , the results will be a little more finicky ( i.e. , harder to get a " perfect " loaf every time ) than using a more standard method . Also , I just noticed you mentioned rolls in your question . Those would be a lot easier than trying to do this with an entire loaf , and it 's pretty standard to refrigerate overnight before baking . If the recipe is one that depends on removing from the oven for a while before baking , then just delay putting the dough in the fridge for maybe 1/3 to 1/2 of that time ( varies by recipe ) the night before . Then you should be able to bake straight from the fridge to the oven the next morning . Again , it may take a bit of experimentation with a specific recipe to get this perfect .
When you find cheap lemons , buy a lot . Squeeze half a lemon in each of the cavities of an ice tray . Freeze . Within a day , remove the frozen slivers from the tray to a ziploc bag in the freezer . You now have measured units of fresh lemon juice you may use for cooking and will keep for months . The frozen lemons are a bit less acid than fresh juice , but full of flavor . You can do the same with limes .
end question
start question
Can someone please give an explanation of different egg preparations ?
Fried Eggs : Sunny Side Up -- Not flipped , unbroken yolk . The top of the egg is just barely set . Basted -- Sunny Side Up , hot fat spooned over until the white surrounding the yolk is opaque . Over Easy / lite -- Flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk runny . Over medium -- flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk creamy ( not completely runny ) . Over Medium Well -- Flipped , unbroken yolk , yolk cooked to have a firm but wet-appearing center . Over Hard -- Flipped , broken , fully-cooked yolk . Over Well -- Flipped , intact , fully-cooked yolk . Broken / Lightly Scrambled -- Broken in pan and gently stirred while cooking - yolk and whites should not be mixed entirely . Scrambled Eggs -- Made in many different ways . Generally the eggs are mixed in a bowl before being put into the pan , and often stirred while cooking . Some recipes add fat to the eggs in the form of milk , cream , butter , or oil . A distinction can be made between Wet/Loose or Dry , which refers to the degree of doneness . Omelettes : Filled Omelette -- Eggs mixed before cooking , possibly with added fat as in Scrambled Eggs . Cooked in fat in a saute pan ; when set but the interior still wet , previously-cooked fillings ( cheese , onions , mushrooms , peppers , tomatoes ... ) are added , and the eggs folded over into a half-moon shape . Spanish Omelette / Western Omelette -- Same as filled , but the egg mixture is poured over the fillings in a hot pan and cooked , thus incorporating the fillings into the egg . Fluffy Omelette -- Whites and yolks beaten separately . Yolks are gently folded into the whites without breaking the structure of the whites . Optional toppings are added . Cooked slowly in a pan , or baked ( an electric frying pan with a lid works well for this preparation ) . Boiled : Cooked in shell in water for a timed period . Some people will refer to degree of doneness by cooking time , i.e. , a " 3-minute egg " is soft-boiled with some runny white around the yolk . Some recipes call for eggs to be added to boiling water , others to be started in cold water . In the cold-water start , the pot may be left on the heat or removed when the water reaches a boil . The eggs may be shocked in ice water when removed . Soft -- Yolk runny , potentially with slight unset white around the yolk . Medium -- White completely set , yolk firm but with a dark , wet appearance . Hard -- Yolk completely set and pale yellow . Poached : Egg cooked , out of shell , in water , stock , or other liquid -- excluding fats or oils -- at a temperature in the range of 160-180 ˚F ( 70-82 ˚C ) . There are possible degrees of doneness , however the typical poached egg has a runny but warm and thickened yolk and fully-set white . Coddled : An egg that has been very lightly cooked ( poached eggs are sometimes considered coddled ) . This can either be accomplished with an egg coddler or cooking an egg in its shell with water that is slightly below boiling point . Shirred : An egg cooked in an oven at the low-mid 300 's ˚F ( ~ 160 ˚C ) , contained in a ramekin , until the whites are just set and the yolk is runny but thickened . Often butter or another fat is placed on top before cooking . Steamed : Very similar to shirred eggs , but the ramekin is covered with some aluminum foil and put in a steamer for 7-15 minutes . In a basket : Eggs fried in a hole made in a slice of bread
French Cuisine ( other than JC ) : Patricia Wells - Bistro Cooking , At Home in Provence Paula Wolfert - The Cooking of Southwest France ( if you love ducks , that 's the book for you ) Elizabeth David - French Provincial Cooking I 've also heard great things about Dorie Greenspan 's recent Around My French Table , although reviewers note that as a contemporary French cooking has a lot of influences from around the globe ( Asia , North Africa and even USA ) . However , if you 'd like to find out what French people are likely too cook at home these days , this has to be a great resource . Spanish Cuisine Penelopa Casas - The Foods and Wines of Spain , Tapas Portuguese Jean Anderson - The Food of Portugal Italian Marcella Hazan - The Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking Mexican Rick Bayless - Authentic Mexican , Mexico One Plate At a Time Russian Anya von Bremzen - Please to the Table : The Russian Cookbook German Mimi Sheraton - The German Cookbook : A Complete Guide to Mastering Authentic German Cooking Japanese Shizuo Tsuji - Japanese Cooking : A Simple Art Chinese Irene Kuo - The Key To Chinese Cooking Barbara Tropp - The Modern Art of Chinese Cooking Thai David Thompson - Thai Food Indian Julie Sani - Classic Indian Cooking , Classic Indian Vegetarian and Grains Cooking Madhur Jaffrey - Indian Cooking , An Invitation to Indian Cooking , A Taste of India Middle-Eastern Claudia Roden - The New Book of Middle Eastern Food Greek Susanna Hoffman - The Olive and the Caper : Adventures in Greek Cooking Diane Kochilas - The Food and Wine of Greece South American Filipe Rojas-Lombardi - The Art of South-American Cooking Copeland Marks - False Tongues and Sunday Bread Elisabeth L. Ortiz - A Taste of Latin America
I would n't recommend to bake this again and eat it because there is a food safety issue . If you had noticed this right after baking , this would not be a problem regarding food safety . But since the bread stayed for many hours in the <URL> and since it contained perishable ingredients like eggs , I strongly suggest to discard the raw bread .
When this happens to me , I am distrustful of a simple reheat . It is possible that it was undercooked , but also possible that it was maybe overcooked/understirred and that most of the binding proteins solidified on the bottom and too little of them remained in the milk , or maybe that the ratios were simply wrong . Your specific recipe also contains starch , so if you truly undercooked , then it 's very probable that the yolks dissolved your starch , so you are left without any starch binding power . The most secure way is to throw it out and make another batch , this time boiling so that it blubbs for at least a minute . If you really want to save it , just use another thickener . In pure custards , I tend to add starch if they do n't turn out . If there is already starch in there , I prefer another thickener such as xanthan . First , I do n't know why the starch did n't work the first time , but repeating it somehow feels wrong . Second , it can get too much of a starchy/floury taste . The " other dish " is not something that can be answered on a Stack Exchange site . You have limitless possibilities to do with it whatever you want , starting with drinking it as it is . Anything which you can make with a custard which was made thin on purpose can be made with your failed custard too .
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
Like Bob said , surely boiling some noodles is way less of a bother than breaking out the pasta machine ? If you really want to make fresh pasta , I do n't see any reason you could n't use it for lasagna without boiling it - the reason one boils dry noodles is because it 's hard to get them to soften in the time it takes to bake the lasagna . But just like when cooking fresh noodles , you need to be careful not to overcook it , so make sure all your fillings are fully cooked before you start layering . It also should be perfectly fine to not cut the noodles into strips - the reason dried noodles come that way is for easier handling . It is possible to make lasagna using dried lasagna noodles without boiling them first , but you need to add more water and bake it longer . A search for " no-boil lasagna " will turn up scores of recipes .
Perhaps : <URL> St Louis , claims to be only one made in USA , Seems to fit time-wise . per one of several catalog sites ( <URL> ) John J Steuby Company of Hazelwood , Missouri , has purchased the equipment used to manufacture the original , MADE IN USA , SWING-A-WAY can opener and now uses that equipment to manufacture the EZ-DUZ-IT can opener .
The skin is the outer thick orange-coloured cover ; obviously as you 're not told to remove it this would include the pith ( the white fibrous material ) as well . The pips are the seeds inside the fruit : pip noun plural noun : pips 1 . a small hard seed in a fruit . synonyms : seed , stone , pit
For Baking , to double the quantities , try the following : Remove 1/3 of the cooking time . Double the remaining amount . Add your original third back on . So If you 're doubling something that would take 1 hour to bake . Remove 1/3 ( Leaving 40 minutes ) Double this new amount ( Giving 80 minutes ) Add your original 1/3 back on . ( 100 minutes ) You may need to play around with the temperatures to make sure that you 're not burning the outside .
Flour paste . Mix flour with water and a bit of salt . Go for a thick glaze-like consistency , and use it instead of the egg . Give it at least 10 minutes to hold before frying , and try to hold the edges closed with tongs when initially frying .
There are things you can do to tweak the colors , but generally it 's easy to move towards brown and dark , and hard to move towards a pure shade and light . You can use food coloring , spices with a lot of color ( like turmeric ) . You can lighten with cornstarch , flour , and dairy . ( thanks satanicpuppy ) If presentation is important to you , you can buy ingredients that make it easier to get the colors you want in the final product . For instance , next time you make the dish you could use <URL> and a little more sugar .
Actually , hard boiling is one of the recommended uses for older eggs , since <URL> . I 'd highly recommend against using old eggs if you were going to whip the whites , for example , or any other heavy " structural " application . Quiche would probably be fine .
Use part of the shell you just cracked to scoop it up ; it will attract the broken bit . Also , if you frequently end up with bits of shell in your eggs , you should revise your cracking technique . Eggs should be cracked on a flat surface ( countertop or plate ) not a sharper surface like the edge of a bowl .
If you heard people talking about " thick " vs. " thin " soy sauce , they were probably actually referring to dark vs. light soy sauce . Dark soy sauce does not actually refer to the colour . It does tend to be darker than natural fermented soy sauce , but if you 're comparing to the hydrolyzed kind ( the most common sold in stores ) , it will look about the same in terms of colour . What actually distinguishes dark soy sauce is that it is aged longer and has added molasses , which makes it thick , sticky and syrupy . Dark soy sauce does taste quite different from light soy sauce , even when it 's the same brand . Dark soy sauce replaces some of the saltiness of light soy sauce with sweetness instead , and in general just has a " bolder " taste . It 's usually used as a cooking ingredient , not a condiment . I 've heard , but ca n't verify , that it is more common in Japanese cooking than other Asian cuisines ( although I have used it with much success in Chinese and Thai dishes ) . I 've started to see a lot more ordinary grocery stores carrying dark soy sauce , but until recently it was difficult to find unless you went to an Asian grocery store , and may still be difficult in some regions . Unless the bottle specifically says dark soy sauce , it is light soy sauce . You should not directly substitute one for the other . As for your comment about the one you bought tasting too " hot " - you must have bought a chili-infused soy sauce or something . Ordinary soy sauce ( dark or light ) is never spicy-hot .
It appears to be feasible ! I found <URL> in which a " cooking expert " gives a specific recipe : Frozen egg tempura Remove the shell of a frozen egg and cut the egg in half lengthwise without thawing . A peeled egg is slippery , so put a paper towel on the cutting board before you place the egg on the board . Lightly flour the halves of the egg all over , and dip it in a mixture of three tablespoons of tempura flour and two tablespoons of water . Deep-fry the egg in oil heated at 160 C for about three minutes . They 're not too specific about the results , but I imagine they 'd have mentioned if it exploded or anything ! <URL> mentions doing essentially the same thing for a scotch egg : Freeze the raw egg in its shell , de-shell the frozen raw egg and wrap the sausage meat around it whilst it is still frozen . This can be difficult as the egg 's albumen defrosts quickly . Coat in flour , egg and breadcrumb . Fry till the scotch egg floats and the crumb is a deep golden brown . It 's the only way I know that gives a soft runny yolk every time . I do n't know what frying temperature was used , and it 's got sausage and breading around the egg rather than just tempura batter , but it 's a deep-fried egg , starting from raw/frozen , and produces a soft yolk .
Actually it is neither filler nor binder , but moisture retainer . Breadcrumbs in your ground meat will absorb much of the natural juices during cooking and then will release that moisture back into the meat as it rests resulting in a ' juicier ' burger , meatball or meatloaf .
Applesauce has little flavor and almost no nutritional value . It is added to baked goods for the one thing it does have - pectin . Pectin interferes with gluten in a similar manner to fat although by a different mechanism . For this reason applesauce is often used to replace some of the fat in recipes for health-conscious bakers . <URL> . Or if you are <URL> . Other banana bread recipes are very similar to cakes and rely on a huge amount of fat - often creamed with a large amount of sugar . Your options are then to : Replace the applesauce with some other oil substitute . Another puree of high-pectin fruit would work . Switch to a recipe that just uses the fat and enjoy a richer banana bread .
They would totally end up tasting like oniony beef ! In fact your whole kitchen does - that 's part of the magic of making jerky . I ca n't think of a way to prevent this as the whole idea of dehydrating is to pull water out of the food and blow it away into the air . If the flavors are compatible ( or milder , like fruit ) I have done different things together at once . If they do n't take the same amount of time , I 'll just take the done items off earlier when I check it .
In the Caribbean and other Rum producing areas , you find Rum in all sorts of recipes It is sometimes an unusual flavour pairing , but not necessarily bad . In savoury cooking it adds a semi-burnt sweetness , more like toffee or butterscotch than straight Rum Caribbean and Mexican cooking is well blended and harmonious with many common ingredients ( chilli , coriander , avocado etc. ) Considering the popularity of spicy jerk meat and Rum , the Rum Fajitas would be an interesting experiment
Unless there is something seriously wrong with your stove , you should not have any negative effects from using it to make choux pastry . Simply melt the butter into the water over medium then adjust the temperature to high . The purpose of boiling the water and then cooking the pastry over low heat is to gelatinize the starches in the flour . Your recipe likely adds emphasis to the point of bringing the water to a boil quickly so that you do not simmer the water away . Doing so can have negative effects on the finished product because it will throw off the water : flour ratio and you will not be able to completely gelatinize the starches . If your stove heats up so slowly that you think this might be an issue , you can simply place a lid over the pot as you bring it to a boil , making sure to add back to the pot any condensed vapor on the inside of the lid .
end question
start question
Freshly ground coffee , how fresh should it be ?
Posted as answer by request of @BaffledCook : Here 's an slightly informal blog post outlining changes in taste between varying degrees of freshness in the grind of a coffee . <URL> The short version is that the coffee starts losing freshness as soon as it is ROASTED . The longer it sits the faster it goes stale . The more surface area it has ( ie : you 've ground it up ; also , the finer the grind ) , the faster it goes stale . The more you expose it to air , the faster it goes stale . So , seal your coffee in an air tight container at room temperature . And grind as close to the time you add water to it as possible . How much of a difference detected depends on the the actual coffee been , the roast , the taster 's taste buds . If you buy a bean that 's been sitting on the shelf for 3 months already , you will probably notice less of a difference than a bean that was roasted last week . I buy beans that are roasted and sold within a week , and I DO notice a difference if I leave the grounds for a day or two before drinking .
Add the baking soda to the cut meat and then wash it off . Measure about a teaspoon in your palm and then sprinkle it over the thinly sliced meat from high up . This way you get a thin layer over all the meat . Wash after some time ( you can do it overnight ) . There is an <URL> that you may follow The baking soda will work like other meat tenderizers , by denaturing the proteins on the surface of the meat , so it should work on pork or chicken as long as the baking soda is on the meat ( and not the skin or fat ) . The tenderizers penetrate the meat very slowly , millimeters per day at refrigerator temperatures , faster at cooking temperatures , so in practice it will only work on thin slices . If you use thicker pieces , you will still change the meat 's surface texture . If you use the baking soda straight into the dish in the same proportion ( some people like it this way ) , adjust your salt accordingly , as the baking soda will make the dish salty .
In my opinion , the best option is to have someone grind them for you . Ask your friends -- someone may have a grinder you can borrow , or would be happy to grind them for you in exchange for some cookies or part of the bag of coffee . If you have a local coffee shop , talk to the barista ( over the latte ' you just bought ) and ask if he/she will grind your beans for you . I 've heard even the mighty Starbucks will grind your beans for you if you ask nicely enough . If you want to do it yourself , you need to find a way to get the beans down to grinds . Some ideas : Mortar and pestle . Be careful not to make Turkish coffee powder instead of the more chunky grinds you want . Rolling pin . Put the beans in a heavy Ziploc bag or similar , and have a go at them . Roll , whack , smash . Have a nice , heavy frying pan ? Ziploc bag again , hammer away . And speaking of hammers ... No , not that Hammer . This hammer .
Broiling fish is extremely easy , although I would recommend saucing the fish after it is cooked as your BBQ sauce will most likely burn under the heat from the broiler . Your food should be about 8 to 12 inches away form the heat source , but most under oven broilers have a fixed height away from the flame . You need to make sure that your fish is fully scaled before cooking and you should season it with salt and pepper as well . Lay the fish on a pan , making sure that you lay it skin side down and that there is room on each side of each piece . Turn on your flame and slide the fish under the broiler , remove when the fish is flaky , white and lightly browned on top . If you are unsure if it is done , take a fork and twist it in the flesh of the fish and it should flake away fully white , it 's done . Then add your sauce and serve . Additionally , BBQ sauce will mostly overpower the flavor of your tilapia , you might find that whipping up a butter sauce or a white wine sauce will suit you better . Also , alot of fish does well with just a little salt , pepper , and lemon juice .
Yes , you would remove the peas from the pods . <URL> shows how to do it efficiently . And no , the pods are not normally eaten , although according to <URL> you can .
To help get uniformly broken up ground beef : Choose an at least moderately fatty ( say 80-85 % ) grind , as very lean ground beef will tend to stick to itself more . Do n't compress it when you are bringing it home , as by setting other groceries on top . Do n't salt the meat before cooking , as salt tends to help it bind to itself . Break it up into chunks with your finger as you put it in the pan to brown . Do n't raise the heat too high , which leaves you less time to break it up as it browns . While it cooks , frequently break up chunks with your spoon or spatula The real key is the last one . There is always going to be certain variability in the size of chunks , unless you are very vigilant in breaking up the pieces fairly continuously . If you cook it in water , as per Cincinnati chili , you can get it very broken up , but it will be a different texture .
The usual materials used in an oven ( no matter if electric or gas ) are almost all food-safe non-melting materials used for cooking vessels . If you can use it on a stove top , it should be OK for the oven too ( unless it has a handle from a different material ) . Metal . Oven pans are made from non-reactive metals ( like stainless steel ) or reactive metals with a protective layer ( e.g. seasoned cast iron ) . Do n't use metal vessels which have non-metal parts , like wooden or plastic handles ( except for oven-rated handles , like the phenolic handles on Le Creuset enameled cast iron , which are rated for up to 200 ° C ) . Else , all metallic pans and pots meant for stove top are good for the oven . Also , pay attention to temperature : PTFE ( non-stick ) coated vessels should n't be heated above 250 ° C. Ceramics . If glazed , you should make sure that the glaze does not suffer under high temperature or does not leach dangerous chemicals into the food under high temperatures . There are many glazed ceramic pans meant for the oven , such as lasagna pans , quiche pans , tagines , gyveches , etc , and you can be sure that these are oven-safe . You can also use table porcelain for some limited scenarios , e.g. poaching an egg in an individual serving of soup , but do n't risk your finest porcelain , and do n't do it if the plates are decorated with adhesive designs . If unglazed , you should make sure it is intended for the oven , some types of earthenware may be damaged by the heat . The ones meant for the oven ( like römertopf ) should be fine . Glass . If it is borosilicate glass ( sometimes called Jena glass ) , you can use it in the oven . Do n't subject it to temperature shocks , use room-temperature glass pans ( do n't layer a lasagna the day before in a glass vessel and then bake it straight from the fridge ) , and do n't put them in too hot an oven ( up to 200 ° C should be OK ) . You ca n't determine if it is borosilicate glass or soda lime glass from its looks , so here you have to be sure that the manufacturer markets the vessel as oven safe . Silicone . Food-grade silicone is great for baking and practically indestructible ( unless you cut it ) . If the manufacturer gave a temperature range , go by it , I 'm not sure it will hold up at above 250 ° C , but it is no problem in the normal cake and pastry baking range . Plastics . Some plastics may be able to withstand heat , but you ca n't usually recognize that from their looks , and you do n't know if there may be other problems ( such as melamine , which releases toxic chemicals when heated ) . In theory , I would trust a big manufacturer who markets a plastic pan explicitly as oven-safe , but in practice , I have n't seen such pans . So do n't use plastic vessels in an oven . Wood . Do n't use wood in an oven . It should n't be able to catch fire at normal oven temperatures , so it is not a hazard , but the heat will damage your vessel . While it will still be usable ( especially if you take care to wet it beforehand ) , it will lose its smooth surface , and it will probably warp . Glued wood can also split along the glue lines . If you have a cheap bowl you do n't mind damaging , you can use it in the oven , but I do n't see why , when other materials are much better suited .
Personally when ever I do Swiss rolls or anything requiring me to roll or manipulate the sponge in any way I 'll use a Genoise sponge recipe . It 's a bit more effort to make than a bog standard pound cake recipe but worth it . While still warm I 've managed to roll it anywhere between 2mm thick and 3cm with little or no cracks or splits . In my opinion the optimum thickness for a full sized Swiss roll is around 1cm thick , but obviously if making canape sized versions you 'll be looking more towards the 2mm thickness .
Actually , I think " the Internet " is wrong on this one , assuming that we are talking about proper caramel sauce . In most of candy making , you are very careful of crystalization . You are working with a supersaturated sugar solution , and it is looking for the slightest excuse to precipitate . Stirring will clump the sugar out of the solution into crystals . Some candy types need to be perfectly smooth , while others ( like fudge ) get their characteristic texture from careful management of crystal size . You should n't be stirring there at all . But once you have reached caramelization , you can stir . What you have in the pan is no longer a supersaturated sugar solution , but caramelization products mixed in a less-concentrated sugar solution . In other words , you have caramel , which is a substance quite different from sugar syrup . And it does not clump into crystals . It is amorphous in its structure , not a crystal , and it 's actually got some viscosity ( if you leave a clump a solid caramel around for years , it will flow a few centimeters ) . And you are not just dealing with pure caramel , but with caramel sauce , which also has lots of liquid added in the form of cream . So much liquid would have also prevented the sugar syrup from crystalizing if it had been added earlier . So , to summarize , you should n't stir a sugar solution during candy making , but you can stir both caramel and caramel sauce . It seems that somebody learned the rule about hot sugar solutions and decided that it applies in all kinds of candy making , without exceptions . But in fact , it does n't apply to caramel sauce .
Without knowing the constituent ingredients of the sausage it is difficult to give exact advice . There are generally two types of chorizo fresh ( or cooking chorizo ) and cured chorizo . Fresh or cooking chorizo is made with pork , red wine , smoked paprika and salt ( along with some other spices depending on the particular recipe ) . The alcohol and salt combine as a mild preservative and therefore the sausage will last a little longer than a normal fresh sausage but only a few weeks realistically . As the name and the lack of a long curing process suggests it needs cooking before it can be eaten . Cured chorizo is made using similar ingredients but uses more salt and sometimes some sodium nitrate and nitrite . The additional chemicals create a much stronger preservative drawing out the moisture and curing the meat so that it can be safely eaten raw when finished . Cured chorizo develops a darker colour and loses around 30 % of it 's weight as it hangs whereas the fresh chorizo is likely to go bad if left to hang but this is only general advice and not definitive . As for hanging locations , sausages normally hang best in cool environments , 15 degrees C max , with a humidity of 60-70 % . Hope this helps .
It 's always a good idea to wash and " pick over " a bag of dried beans before soaking them . You never know what sort of grit or weirdness you might find . It 's a lot more difficult to find the stuff-that-isn ' t-beans once it 's all been soaking together for a long time .
It depends on how moist you like your jerky . A typical jerky loses half of its starting weight in moisture , so 2:1 is the proper ratio . " Low moisture " jerky can actually be 1/3 the starting weight , a 3:1 ratio . So 2-3 pounds of beef will make 1 pound of jerky .
Generally , no , it should not be overly gritty . The grind itself should be very fine , finer than an espresso grind . Secondly after the coffee is brewed , it 's generally covered and left for a while so that the coffee grounds settle to the bottom of the pot . Then , when being poured , it should be poured carefully so the settled grounds are n't disturbed and end up in the cup . If you do n't let it settle , you 'll have a lot of the coffee grinds floating in the cup and it 'll have a powdery texture ( although it should be overly gritty given the fineness of the grind ) . You 'll generally still get a little of the coffee grinds in the cup but it should n't be a small amount and it should settle to the bottom . Generally , the coffee is unsweetened ( as many take it unsweetened ) but it is commonly spiced with cardamon . The host will generally sweeten each cup to taste or will provide a small bowl of sugar allowing drinkers to sweeten the coffee to their own taste .
It sounds to me like you are making your pudding almost as thick as it should be . It should be able to stand up a little . In other words , if you spoon some into a desert cup or small bowl , it should make a pile . It should n't be solid like ice cream , it should be smooth , but still stay in a pile shape . Do you have custard where you live ? It should be similar to that in thickness . Though custard is very different from Chocolate pudding .
Like Bob said , surely boiling some noodles is way less of a bother than breaking out the pasta machine ? If you really want to make fresh pasta , I do n't see any reason you could n't use it for lasagna without boiling it - the reason one boils dry noodles is because it 's hard to get them to soften in the time it takes to bake the lasagna . But just like when cooking fresh noodles , you need to be careful not to overcook it , so make sure all your fillings are fully cooked before you start layering . It also should be perfectly fine to not cut the noodles into strips - the reason dried noodles come that way is for easier handling . It is possible to make lasagna using dried lasagna noodles without boiling them first , but you need to add more water and bake it longer . A search for " no-boil lasagna " will turn up scores of recipes .
" Instant " coffee typically is disolved in hot water , so I 'd think that just stirring it into a cold product would be less than ideal . You might try <URL> ( as you 're adding sugar anyway ) or try steeping the instant coffee in hot milk or water first , cool it down , then mixing that into the yoghurt .
Referring to the quotes from the below links ; • " Baked cheesecake should be refrigerated as soon as it is cool or it may develop harmful bacteria from heat resistant spores . " <URL> • " Foods made with eggs and milk such as pumpkin pie , custard pie and cheesecake , must first be safely baked to a safe minimum internal temperature of 160 ° F. Then , they must be refrigerated after baking . Eggs and milk have high protein and moisture content and when these baked products are left at room temperature , conditions are ripe for bacteria to multiply . It 's not necessary to refrigerate most other cakes , cookies or breads unless they have a perishable filling or frosting . " <URL> When to throw it out ; a quote from the link below ; " Refrigerator Foods When to Save and When to Throw It Out FOOD ... ... ... ... . Held above 40 ° F for over 2 hours Cheesecake ... ... . . Discard <URL>
I found <URL> in the LA Times with detailed experiments suggesting that soaking beans is unnecessary and it takes away the flavor and texture .
Its been a while but I found this thread as I was wondering the same thing ... Not much info on raw okara but I just googled raw soybeans ... " For human consumption , soybeans must be cooked with " wet " heat to destroy the trypsin inhibitors ( serine protease inhibitors ) . Raw soybeans , including the immature green form , are toxic to humans , swine , chickens , and in fact , all monogastric animals . " From wikipedia <URL>
Those single serving ' creamers ' have been manufactured using Ultra High Temperature ( UHT ) processing . According to <URL> ( the most reliable information source in the multiverse ! ) , milk treated by UHT has an unopened shelf life of 6 to 9 months . The reason there is no ' best before ' date is that they are purchased in bulk by the merchant , the container for a bunch of them ( which the retail buyer will rarely see ) would have the best before date on it .
end question
start question
Does resting the dough for a long time reduce the need to knead the bread ?
Kneading does two things . First it mixes all the ingredients uniformly . You have to do this no matter what , but you only really have to do it enough to mix the ingredients . If you keep kneading beyond the mixing stage , you are applying energy ( which equals heat ) to the yeast which makes it ferment , generating the tiny bubbles which make bread fluffy . The yeast will ferment on its own , but kneading just accelerates that process . Historically , dough was proved ( left in a hot humid place ) for about 18 hours allowing it to rise slowly in order to make bread . In 1961 a process was developed in England called the <URL> . Essentially you work the heck out of the dough with high-speed mixers . The extra few minutes of high energy mixing applies heat to the yeast , which dramatically reduces the fermentation period required , allowing you to make bread much more quickly ... at factory-type speeds . Factories can make bread in a couple of hours instead of having to prepare dough one day and bake it the next .
The first yeast was " just there " - in the environment , everywhere . People discovered very early on that leaving the dough ( or just a flour-water slurry ) out would lead to it getting " sour " and " bubbly " , thus leavening the bread : What we today call sourdough is in fact a mixture of yeasts and bacteria ( lactobacillae ) . The origins of bread-making are so ancient that everything said about them must be pure speculation . ( M.G. Gaenzle : Encyclopedia of Food Microbiology ) Early sources are the Bible ( - > the explicit demand for of " unleavened " or " unsoured " bread during Passover suggesting that otherwise was the norm ) and sources from Ancient Egypt . The " modern " yeast that was explicitly added was mentioned by <URL> in his Naturalis historia as a foam skimmed from beer : In Gaul and Spain , where they make a drink by steeping corn in the way that has been already described - they employ the foam which thickens upon the surface as a leaven : hence it is that the bread in those countries is lighter than that made elsewhere . Source : <URL> . Pliny the Elder . John Bostock , M.D. , F.R.S. H.T. Riley , Esq. , B.A. London . Taylor and Francis , Red Lion Court , Fleet Street . 1855 . Sources from the 18th century describe how the <URL> ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) was used for baking , leading to the " specialized strains " of <URL> cultivated separately when the brewers switched to bottom-fermenting yeast ( S. pastorianus ) in the 19th century , which preferred cooler temperatures and was not as easy to harvest as the top-fermenting types . The use of separately cultivated yeast allowed to bake " milder " breads than the sourdough types with their typical acidic undertones but is restricted to certain flour types .
I am an Indian and we make dough for everyday bread at home . It 's easy to knead dough ; you just have to take care while adding water . Do not add all the water you have , and add water slowly and steadily . For pizza dough I follow these steps : Mix yeast in warm water , add sugar to this water . Observe this mixture - as soon as you see bubbles , it is ready to be used for kneading dough . Add oil and salt to flour along with the yeast you have prepared . I use a spoon to keep mixing the flour and add spoonfuls of water , I keep some flour handy in case I have accidentally added too much water . I keep kneading the dough gently and add water or flour as needed . This does require some practice .
Cookbooks describe the state as " smooth and elastic " I think this is a reasonable description . When the dough is first mixed it is very wet and sticky . As it is mixed you can see a lot of clumps and heterogeneous textures . As the proteins in the flour mix with water they form gluten and the kneading folds the elastic gluten over itself again and again making sheets . The dough becomes less sticky and wet and more springy . The texture becomes completely homogeneous . Kneading by hand it is impossible to over knead this type of dough . I have read that it is possible to over knead in a machine . In this case , supposedly , the protein sheets eventually rip up enough that you lost what you created and the dough reverts . I have kneaded in a machine for a long time and never personally seen this effect .
You absolutely do n't need a bread maker for good bread . They have been making bread for at least 22,000 years and I promise , in the vast majority of those , having a bread maker would have gotten you stoned as a witch ( if you had electricty to run it ) . However , a good bread maker will vastly cut down on the time you have to spend making bread . Basically , bread by hand requires a few hours and lot of physical kneading to develop the gluten that gives bread it 's structure and in a bread machine , you dump the ingredients in , turn it on and walk away , then come back and enjoy some fresh bread .
Just to clarify , the mortar is the bowl and the pestle is the rod . I have n't ever seen a grooved pestle , but the grooves on a mortar will wear off with use . The grooves are useful for holding seeds and the like in place while grinding , but they are not strictly necessary . Spices can actually be ground finer in a smooth mortar than they can with a grooved one since the particles ca n't get caught in the ridges , however the initial grinding and tapping may take slightly longer to get started as you chase things like seeds around the bowl a little . The rough surface of the granite alone is enough , just adjust your technique as it wears more .
<URL> is as good advice as any I 'd give . In my experience , it gets some slimy mold stuff on it . If it feels slimy , its probably not good to eat , although the mold might taste delicious , you never know ...
Most small bakeries use small rotary mixers ( like a Kenwood that stands as high as a man ) that handle batches up to about 100lb - using a dough hook for bread . The really big bakeries use trough mixers with blades that turn along the length of the trough . A typical batch is around 600lb .
Japanese style whetstones made of natural material , also known as " waterstones " , rely on water to make a paste from the material , and this paste is abrasive and aids in sharpening . Oil is not as effective as water in making this " mud " as the stone material is n't as soluble in oil . Further , once you have used oil on any type of whetstone , water may no longer be used as a lubricant , as it will be shed by the oil that has soaked into the stone and be ineffective in carrying away the swarf ( metal abraded from the blade by sharpening ) . Here is a <URL> on natural waterstones from an online retailer .
The number specifies the diameter of the grinder plate # 5 is 2 1/8 inches # 8 is 2 1/2 inches # 10 and # 12 are 2 3/4 inches # 20 and # 22 are 3 1/4 inches # 32 is 3 7/8 inches
The leavening action of baking soda begins as soon as it is moistened - that is as soon as you mix your wet and dry ingredients your baking soda begins the chemical reaction that creates the carbon dioxide which causes the rise in your quick bread . Because of this I would say that there is no advantage , but in fact a disadvantage to resting a quick bread . Also , it is usually recommended to mix quick breads as little as possible and over mixing them can cause them to be tough .
Fat floats , so if you dump the water into a bowl and let it sit for a bit , you can see how much floats to the top . You can then remove the fat in any of the normal ways ( this is exactly the process you use to defat a stock or a soup ) , and measure it . Of course , I quickly looked up the nutrition information on ramen , and it has ~ 7g fat , ~ 3g saturated . An egg is ~ 6g fat , ~ 2g saturated . The fish is ~ 27g fat , ~ 6g saturated . Check your red curry seasoning as well ( varies a lot by brand/type ) So it seems like your approach is misguided , but nutrition questions are off-topic here . edit : From thinking about your comment , you may want to try switching to spaghetti . You can just break it until it fits in the bowl , and it should be cookable in a bowl in the microwave , or even soaking in boiling water . You wo n't get perfect al dente or anything close , and my Italian ancestors will be after me for even suggesting this , but it will cut down on the fat . You can even get whole-wheat spaghetti .
A very long blade is only useful in specialty situations , such as cutting very thin slices from wide cuts like an entire top round , or a full sized ham where there is no bone to be negotiated around ( in the ham , the slice is only down through half , until the bone is reached ) . Otherwise , for more typical home carving purposes , extra length just gets in the way , especially for oddly shaped meats like an actual turkey . I find that a traditional chef 's knife or my santuko are the best tools for most home carving jobs -- and they are also useful for many other purposes . I have a 10 inch ( 25 cm ) granton ham slicer , but I never use it for carving : it is reserved for slicing layer cakes in half horizontally in one pass .
Make the bread all the way through . You can even let the first rise happen . Drop your yeast to about half . Oil a bowl , drop in the dough , spin once to get the ball of dough covered with the oil and then put plastic wrap over the bowl , or a damp cloth ... and plastic wrap . Put the bowl in the refrigerator . The refrigerator slows down the yeast without killing it , which also increases the flavor of the bread ( over night cool low yeast methods for bread are considered the " right " way to make bread ) . In the morning , pull out the bread , press out any large bubbles , roll it around and let it come to life again . I usually punch it down one more time and then let it rise in the pan or on a sheet depending on what kind of bread I am making , then bake as normal . In your case , because you 're doing a stuffed loaf , assuming there is a rise before the stuffing , THAT is the point where you will start the morning . Everything before the pre-stuff rise , the refrigerator IS the pre-stuff rise , pull it out , let it warm , punch it down , stuff , put in the pan , let rise , bake .
You should have no problem refrigerating the dough . I have done it with chapatti dough , which is essentially the same thing , without a problem . It 's only flour , water and salt after all . You might find it a little hard to roll out straight from the fridge but nothing some brute force and ignorance ( or letting it warm up a little ) wo n't cure .
Bisquick-originated pancake and waffle batter lasts a day , two at the most . Data : in college , I made pancakes or waffles every day for a year and a half , making the batter on day 1 and then cooking it on days 1 , 2 , and 3 . Once in that time I got sick on Day 3 . Based on that experience , more than 24 hours is getting sketchy , though 48 seems to work most of the time .
Most turkeys sold in the United States for Thanksgiving are frozen . It simply is not feasible for meat processors to process the huge spike in turkeys for the holiday and provide everyone a fresh turkey . Expect to pay a premium for a fresh turkey over a frozen one . If you buy a frozen turkey , from a quality standpoint it does not matter whether you buy a turkey a month out from Thanksgiving ( now ) or wait to buy the turkey later . You will basically get the same product .
No marinade penetrates very deeply in unless : The marinade is quite salty , as the salt can diffuse past cell membranes into the meat The marinade contains an active enzyme or acidic component which will denature the meat over time , allowing deeper penetration Marination is by its very nature a surface treatment , although one that can add considerable flavor . Kenji Alt at <URL> says ( in regards to flank steak ) : In reality , a marinade is mostly a surface treatment , and not much benefit lies in marinating for more than half a day or so . If you 'd like the flavor of the marinade to completely coat your meat , your best bet is to reserve some marinade and simply toss your meat with it after it has been cooked and sliced . I am more partial to the dry rub or wet rub myself . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> with experiment showing limited penetration into beef
Your metal bowl sitting in your 70 ° F room is 70 ° F ( at least , if its been sitting there for a bit ) . Your plastic bowl , or glass bowl , or ceramic bowl , or any other bowl sitting in the same room is also 70 ° F. They 're all actually the same temperature . Now , given , when you touch the metal bowl , it feels cooler than the plastic one . This is because your finger is n't 70 ° F , and your body heat is transferred away quicker by metal than ( say ) plastic . If the dough is room temperature , it wo n't matter -- heat is n't flowing out of it . The dough itself does n't generate much heat . If your dough started above room temperature , it will cool a little quicker in a metal bowl . But , if you wanted to keep it from cooling , putting it in a warm place is much more effective . A stainless steel bowl is fine . I 'd avoid aluminum ( and copper , if anyone makes a mixer with such a thing ) due to them being reactive , especially if you 're making sourdough .
Overly sour yogurt is a sign of inconsistent inoculation Check the type of culture you are using , and ensure you are keeping the yogurt above 37C for more than six hours . The yogurt should finish as a solid lump that resists pouring , not a thick liquid , or a lumpy paste Pouring off the whey and straining the yogurt makes it more creamy and taste sweeter Thickeners are not required , just complete inoculation For sweet yogurt dishes I mostly use sour berries ( blackberry , raspberry etc ) so it is expected to be somewhat sour anyway
end question
start question
What effect have bay leaves in a meat/tomato sauce ?
It does n't do anything , it 's your second suggestion . The feeling of " right/wrong " and " like/dislike " is highly correlated with familiarity . This is proven not only by psychometry , but even physiologically , with fMRI scans . People like most whatever they are familiar with , up to the point that unfamiliar things seem wrong . This applies not only to bay leaves , but also to all other tastes ( or taste combinations ) and many other areas of life , even beyond sensory perception . You can teach yourself to like bay-leaf-less sauce too , by just eating it frequently enough that it becomes familiar . But I do n't see any advantages in doing so . Just cook with bay leaf and enjoy it .
What you 're describing is n't all that different from how they make various products like Liquid Smoke ( make smoke along with steam , then condense that steam ) . You will need to make sure that some actual condensation occurs ( for example , by having a lid for the smokey vapor to condense onto ) . However , it may be simpler to add a liquid smoke-type product directly ; at least the main brands are actually smoke distillates ( and not artificial flavorings or similar ) and thus should be effectively identical to this process , but quicker .
Yes . Water boils at about 212F ( 100C ) and meat is cooked from 140F to 160F . If you left the meat in there for a very long time it would eventually approach 212F and start to get tough . The time that they give you is going to be the time it takes to ensure that the meat is safe to eat . Generally I like it to be closer to the rare side as it is more tender that way .
Do n't Rinse You should not need to do more than shake the excess marinade from your chicken , or if you want to be very thorough , pat it down with towels lightly . If you rinsed , you would be washing away from of the flavor developed by your marinade , and the seasoning at the surface of the chicken . Cook on The goal is to not put the chicken on the grill with so much left over marinade that it fails to cook through and dry . By the time you are done grilling , the chicken should be essentially dry at the surface with nothing left to curdle . The other goal of the grilling ( or putting in the tandoor , I imagine , if you have one ) is to develop the nice browned and delicious flavors , and that wo n't happen if there is still liquid yogurt on the surface . Type of yogurt The particular type of yogurt you use should not be a factor , since it should be fully cooked in the grilling phase . However , in general , very high fat dairly products ( like cream , or a yogurt made from full cream ) .
The biggest cause of mould or fungus is humidity ( moisure , dampness , water in the air ) and the leaves by nature will produce this as they dry . After all , the drying process is removing water from the plant . As long as you dry the herbs in an area with plenty of air circulation ( to avoid humidity build up and take away any moisture as the leaves dry ) you should be fine . Make sure the herbs are n't bunched together , spread them out on a tray so the air can circulate around them . Turn them over regularly - every day or every 6 hours or so so they can dry evenly . Remove any damaged/crushed/torn leaves or stems where mould can get a hold and spread . Also remember just because the outside leaves stems may feel dry , the insides may not be , so give them longer to dry out than you think .
The original Buffalo Wings are made with <URL> . The original recipe is simply equal parts melted butter and hot sauce . However , you truly can use just about whatever hot sauce you want in even greater ratios if you want more kick . There are also some distributors that specialize in spicy wing sauces . I recommend <URL> if you are adventurous and enjoy a very nice kick of heat .
From : <URL> Can sizes change over time , important if you are adapting an older recipe . Prior to 1980 's ) , # 303 was the popular size for most fruits and vegetables. ; No. 303 = 16-17 oz . ( 1 lb.-1 lb.-1 oz . ) = 2 cups = 4 servings ; Principal size for fruits and vegetables . Also some meat products , ready-to-serve soups , specialties . Tomato paste has , as far as I know , always come in size 1/2 ( 6 ounce ) cans , at least since I began using it , starting in the mid 1960s . Think this is what you are looking for . There are lots of information bits on line , search ; ' can sizes ' . cheers
Peel the rhubarb before cooking - you can strip off the outer skin from the stalks quite easily . That helps . EDIT : My wife told me to explain why . In Yorkshire , the rhubarb capital of the world , you can buy " forced rhubarb " , which has a tender pink skin because it is forced to grow up through dark tubes towards the light . Because " garden Rhubarb " is not forced , the " gritty teeth sensation " components accumulate in the skin , and an authority on the subject ( my mother ) told me many ( > 50 ) years ago that it was a good idea to peel it . She also taught me that it was a good way to divert children - show them how to pick a tender stem and dip it in sugar , then eat it raw - and that the sugar sticks to the stem easier if you peel the skin off first . My grandmother had a lot of mysterious ways with rhubarb , including using it in ginger beer instead of the usual lemon . These are lost in time , but she always peeled it , whatever it was being used for , to avoid that sensation .
Your typical Tamari is , to my understanding , going to be closer to dark than light soy sauce . So you 'd want light as a second soy sauce . Inside Japan , there are five kinds of soy sauce : Koikuchi , which is your most typical soy sauce Usukuchi , which is lighter because it has fermented rice in it Tamari , which has more soy than wheat and thus is a bit darker Shiro , which has more wheat than soy and thus is a bit lighter Saishikomi , which is " twice-brewed " and thus twice as dark In China , you have two : regular " light " soy sauce , and " dark " , which is the light stuff processed further and aged . Therefore , " sashikomi " is the Japanese equivalent to dark soy sauce , if you want to stick with Japanese classifications . If your recipes are aimed at english-speaking audiences , however , the terms are likely to be used a lot looser and less precisely than in Japan or China . Kikkoman , which is the biggest name brand I 've seen in the US , brews a regular , a Tamari , and a gluten-free ( Tamari can have some gluten in it ) . Therefore , I would normally assume that to an American chef , " dark soy sauce " is Tamari . " Light soy sauce " might mean the low-sodium stuff , or it might mean Shiro or Usukuchi . Your basic unqualified " soy sauce " is Koikuchi .
The USDA NAL <URL> : Refuse : 20 % Refuse Description : Bone In addition , you can compare the serving size weight of the breast with skin ( 145 g ) to the weight of the <URL> ( 118 g ) , each derived from 1/2 chicken breast , so the skin accounts for about 18.6 % of the deboned breast and 14.9 % of the bone-in breast ( accounting for the earlier 20 % ) . All in , it looks like a bone-in breast with skin is slightly more than 65 % meat . Breast meat is generally the most expensive part of the chicken to buy , even bone-in ; if economy is really a factor here than you really should consider using the whole chicken .
I do n't know how you would describe the flavor of bay -- I would call it a subtle savoriness , with a complex aroma . Bay is very tough -- almost sharp . It is generally not eaten directly . Instead , the whole leaf ( or several whole leaves ) are put into a dish or sauce to cook with it , then removed prior to service . The shortest recipe I have for using bay is in a rice pilaf while it cooks , which is 15-30 minutes depending . I am not aware of an upper time limit . Here is a Miami Herald article offering some other perspectives on using bay leaves : <URL> As they Herald points out , many folks prefer Turkish bay rather than California bay , because it has a more complex , subtle flavor . ... I believe custard in Britain had bay as a traditional ingredient -- you might make a custard with a single bay leaf to get some sense of what it tastes like without lots of competing strong flavors . ... Update : Serious Eats Food Lab has just published an article , <URL> with lots of good information that may be of interest .
Fats adhere to broad or flat areas nicely ( fettucini , linguine ) and press the creamier sauces against more tongue surface to enhance/emphasize their smoothness Pooling sauces needs nested , medium pasta ( round or flat ) that help to punctuate the sharper and more diverse flavors of a smooth , acidic by alternating between pasta and sauce Angel hair and other fine pasta do well with a chunky sauce as it is effective with pick up but does n't obstruct the sauce 's texture once you get it in your mouth My basis for this is ( 1 ) ease and volume of transport , plate to mouth of sauce ; as well as ( 2 ) how the pasta interacts with the sauce to create mouth feel and churn of sauce against tongue . As for gnocchi and other variously shaped pasta ; if it has a cavity , it should have fats , if it has a textured surface acidic sauces will cling nicely . Obviously , I would shy away from pretending any of these were definitive answers , they are reasoned and seasoned , based on sauce/pasta dynamics and experience preparing them . This book has a listing of <URL> . This book , upon which Geometry was based , also has a <URL> . I do n't seem to be able to find any good , objective maxims for when to use what ; but , considering the variety of pastas and the prolific diversity of sauces ( i.e. a different ragu for every house ) , it seems only appropriate that every person should have an opinion on why a particular sauce works with a particular pasta .
American versions of Mongolian BBQ are often pretty sweet ( this does n't sound like an authentic recipe ) . More soy sauce ( or more of everything but the sugar ) would cut the sweetness . Chili oil would certainly give it heat , but is n't going to temper the sweetness much . Any of the following would offset the sweetness and be appropriate for this type of dish : Any tart apple ( a common ingredient in the Japanese version of Mongolian BBQ ) Onions ( not caramelized ) Rice wine vinegar
You do n't tell us neither the ratio of double cream to caramel , nor the time you heat the completed mix , so this is just a guess . But it sounds logical that your problem is evaporation . Double cream consists mainly of fat and water . I do n't remember the exact percentages , but more than half of it is water . So , if you heat cream , part of it evaporates during the heating , and it continues evaporating after being added to the pan with bubbling caramel . But if you use cold cream , its water has n't evaporated during a heating phase , and if you add a large amount of cream to a hot caramel mixture , the whole mixture cools considerably . If you do n't heat it and let it simmer for long enough afterwards , the water content of the cream continues thinning the spread . You end up with a runny sauce instead of a sticky spread . Instead of pre-boiling , you should be able to just simmer for longer time after adding the cream , if you find it more convenient . But you 'll have to try it a few times until you have found the cooking time which gives you optimal consistency .
There are only three advantages that I can think of for a brasier : The lower sides result in faster evaporation when cooking on the stove top , as it does n't hold in the steam . It 's typically not as heavy for the same surface area . You should be able to fit two of them in your oven ( on different racks ) , which is unlikely for a dutch oven . Personally , I do n't have any of that shape pan in cast iron , and the ones that I do have , I do n't use for braising ; I use them for pilaf-type dishes or casseroles where you want a wide but shallow covered dish . I do n't know if a cast iron vessel would work as well for those dishes , as the thermal mass could make it more difficult to cook the middle sufficiently without overcooking the outside , unless is n't something that you can serve immediately after coming out of the oven .
You need a sharper knife . With a dull knife , you 'll have trouble getting through the skin , and end up tearing and smashing , releasing a lot of juice . With a sharp knife , you 'll get through the skin cleanly and leave the tomatoes much more intact .
I would n't bother keeping the skins , if they 're hurting the texture . Many recipes using tomatoes end up removing skins for this reason . My exec chef showed me an easy way to remove the skin from tomatoes ( we were doing tomato concasse ) : Wash tomatoes thoroughly , and slice a shallow cross in the bottom . Bring a pot of water to a rolling boil , and also prepare an ice water bath nearby . Drop tomatoes into the boiling water for 30 seconds to a minute , until the skin starts to crack . Using a slotted spoon , transfer tomatoes to ice water to cool for a minute or two Peel -- the skin should already be peeling back around the X-mark .
At least in the case of marinades containing acids ( such as vinegar or lemon juice ) or certain enzymes , especially from papayas , kiwis , or most commonly ( at least in the US ) , fresh pineapple juice , a certain amount of denaturing of the proteins will occur at the surface of the marinated meat . This will turn it opaque rather than translucent -- chicken will look kind of white . This is perfectly normal , and safe . Depending on the color of the marinade , and the particular cut being marinated , some of the marinade may also penetrate into the meat , changing its color as well . These are normal effects , and assuming you have otherwise respected good practices ( keeping the meat refrigerated during the marination , not holding the food uncooked longer than would be safe without the marinate , and not cross-contaminating and so on ) , the product should be safe to eat . In the case of your meat marinated triple the planned time , the outcome will depend on the nature of the particular marinade . If there was active enzymatic action , it could be very mush to the point of unpleasantness . On the other hand , if the marinade was mostly for flavor , rather than highly acidic , it might just have a more intense flavor from the marinade . Edit : I should add for clarity , above means ...
Per the <URL> , frozen chicken should not be cooked in a slow-cooker or a microwave . It can only safely be cooked in the oven or on the stovetop . A similar warning is given for <URL> as well .
When you buy it , the fenugreek is almost certainly still alive , even if the roots have been cut off . It continues to respire and metabolize , or tries to . The leaves almost certainly wilted because the plant had no water . Treat it like flowers if you are going to hold it for a more than a day or two , by giving it water at the roots or root end of the stems ( if you have no roots , again like flowers , trim off the bottom of the stem , to allow a fresh surface to absorb the water ) . This technique also works with celery ( very well , in fact ) , parsley , cilantro ( eeew !!! ) and so on .
end question
start question
Any way to make sweet mashed potatoes less stringy ?
I believe ( although I am not sure ) that the majority of the stringiness of mashed sweet potatoes comes from the fibrous parts of the potato that are near the skin . If when you remove the skin , you remove a bit of the flesh as well , it should solve your problem .
In my experience ( I 'm Texan , I 've seen my share of okra ) , 2.5-3 " is pretty small , and 6 " is on the big side but I would n't expect it to be inedible . It 's certainly going to be much more tender at 2.5-3 " ; there 's no possible way it 'll be too tough to eat . Larger does mean tougher , but at that size they might still be okay ( for example <URL> says 4-6 " is good ) . It looks like different varieties can have pretty different sizes - for example , this <URL> is supposed to be best at 6-7 " but still be good at 14 " ! In any case , test the okra you have ; no reason to choose just based on the length . Just try cutting it with a sharp knife , and if it 's really hard and fibrous , you 'll know . If it 's borderline , any sort of long stewing method will be your best bet . You 'd also want to cut it fairly thinly , so that you do n't have very long fibrous strands to try to chew . If it 's really too hard to soften even like that , you might still be able to get some use out of it as a thickener but I do n't think you 'll ever be eating it on its own . If you want to try thickening with it , I 'd cut it into bigger chunks , so that you can easily fish them out once they 've done their work .
Usually that would mean potatoes that have been simmered to fork tender , but you could use potatoes that have been baked too . It 's faster to dice the potato before simmering , but for some things it actually tastes better ( tiny difference ) to simmer first , then dice . Be careful if you dice first , they will overcook and become waterlogged quickly . If the recipe does n't specify , you can use peeled or unpeeled potatoes . I almost always prefer scrubbed , unpeeled potatoes . Do n't forget to salt the water ! EDIT : One more little note . 1/4 inch dice is small for simmering potatoes . If you do it that way , get them out of the water just before they are completely tender , carry-over cooking will get them the rest of the way . You might also want to rinse them in cold water to stop the cooking .
In a cup with water . You place them straight up in a small cup with a little water . Just like you would if you were storing flowers . You 'll want to store this in your chill chest on the top most rack ; to avoid any cross contamination from other possible food products ( chicken , etc ) . You may want to leave the rubber band on to allow it to stay tidy . If you must you can cover your asparagus cup with a zip lock bag on top . With this method we usually can store asparagus for 5-7 days . If you must keep them longer it maybe better to just freeze them in an air tight bag . after they 're dried out .
Donuts are a deep fried food . The texture of deep fried food is unique and can not be duplicated by other methods . If you bake doughnut dough , you will get small rolls , which will have a similar aroma , but not the same combination of moist , soft inside and fat-crispy outside . You could bake it , as with any other yeast dough , only nobody will recognize it as a donut . Assuming that you want to get actual donuts , you must fry them . And no matter what you do to them , the more oil you use to fry them , the better your donuts will turn out . The physics of deep frying include throwing pieces of food with a starchy surface ( potatoes , or breaded items , or dough pieces like donuts ) in oil at around 190 degrees Celsius . At this temperature , the outer surface of the dough/vegetable/breading crisps immediately , preventing from any oil getting into the item and any vapor getting out of the item . This only works when the oil in the vicinity of the fried item stays within a few degrees of the target temperature during the first ~ 30 seconds of the frying process . Which means that you need a stable temperature in your fryer . Now , thermodynamics tells us that , if you throw a 25 degrees piece of food into a puddle of 190 degrees hot oil , they will exchange warmth proportionally to their mass . So , if you want the oil to stay close to the correct temperature , the mass of the donut has to be very small in comparison to the mass of the oil -- which means that you need lots of oil . The options you have to do with less oil are all unsatisfactory from my point of view , you might decide to pick one of them . Put up with the quality reduction . Use less oil in the pan , maybe even shallow frying in oil up to the half of the donut only . The donuts will lose moisture and soak up grease . The less oil you use , the worse the grease soak will be . Also , you will use up more oil , because you will have to constantly add the amount soaked up by the already fried donuts . You may consider it well used instead of wasted , because you get to eat it , but from my point of view this is the worst option . Trade time for oil . You can use a small pot , and fry a single donut at a time . Frying 50 g donuts should go well with under 500 ml oil . You are still a bit constrained by the fact that the oil temperature will fluctuate more due to factors not related to the oil , but it should be manageable , if you have the patience . Note that if you place multiple donuts in the small pan , you are getting towards the first or third solution . Try to manage a stable temperature in a donut-crowded small pan by using a very hot setting and letting the oil get too hot before adding a new donut . This is a very complicated thing to manage , especially seeing that you are trying to not burn the other donuts in the pan at the same time . I do n't think I could manage it , and if I could , the oil would n't be worth the stress . There is also the extra energy to consider -- not as expensive as throwing out more oil , but probably worse from an environmental point of view . In the end , if you want good donuts , you have to use a pot/fryer where they can swim freely in oil . Any change you make to this setup reduces the quality of your donut , making it less donut-like .
Vodka by definition is a flavorless distilled alcohol , retaining any of the organoleptic properties of the grain or potato could be considered as ruining the end product . Potatoes are a good source of starch , but brewers yeast has a limited ability to break down starch into usable fuel ; its preferred fuel sources are relatively simple sugars like mono and disaccharides . In order to efficiently convert the starch in potatoes to sugar the potatoes must first be boiled so that the starches gelate . Once gelated , the potatoes are then Mashed-in with malted barley or wheat at a temperature around 150 ˚F so that the diastatic enzymes can break those starches into the sugars that yeast likes to eat . These same steps are used when making vodka from non-malted grains such as corn ( maize ) . Boiling the potatoes also helps reduce the number of surface microbes that could end up influencing the final product . Bacteria and wild yeast strains can lead to moldy , grassy , sour , and other unpleasant flavors that may necessitate multiple distillations to remove . Making a mash of raw , peeled potato would likely yield something closer to a sourdough starter with a mix a naturally occurring yeasts and bacteria producing a small amount of alcohol along with acetic and lactic acids , as well as other compounds .
I have the <URL> and it works well for sweet potato fries . The product spec for them lists " Yams " which are sometimes what sweet potatoes are called in the U.S. ( technically , yes , yams are different but real yams are not often available in the U.S. ) . The <URL> specifically lists sweet potatoes : Makes French fries , sweet potato fries , zucchini sticks and other favorites
Adding fruit will change the ratio of dry to liquid , so it may require more flour . It would also add some sweetness , so you may want to reduce the sugar a tad . But citrus fruits in particular are acidic , which might affect the leavening . I suspect it would depend on the type of fruit and how it 's prepared .
The only one that could feasibly handle it would be the grinder . However , in the manual <URL> on page 5 it states " Note : Very hard , dense foods such as totally dried homemade bread should not be ground in the Food Grinder . Homemade bread should be ground fresh and then oven or air-dried . " If dried , dense bread is too much for the grinder then peanuts would definitely be to much as well . My recommendation is to use a food processor .
Growing up , my mother always used to bake them . They do turn out a bit drier than if you deep-fried them , but not overmuch . They cook for about 15-20 minutes at 400 ° F ( ~ 200 ° C ) , or until golden and crispy on the outside . Alternately , you can pan-fry them , as other answers have suggested . Or you can split the difference and oven fry them . If you 're unfamiliar , Google can acquaint you with the process . Here 's a good NPR article to get you started : <URL>
If the meringues are coming out of the oven sticky , you might lower the temperature slightly and extend the drying time ( to avoid browning ) -- they should feel quite dry and very light coming out of the oven . Sugar is <URL> -- if the air is humid , any condensation -- even when you can not see it -- on the meringues will dissolve the sugar , and then they will start to feel sticky , and the downward spiral will begin . According to all my searching , it is best to make them on a low humidity day . Of course , where I live in the summer , we pretty much do n't get those . If you are having trouble with them in storage , you might try to buy some <URL> packets , and put them in the container . Most desiccant is not food safe , so it should not touch the meringue . Amazon has lots of options .
Best thing to do is to keep them out of the light in an cool dark dry place . I usually put them in a hessian bag to try and keep the moisture away . Do n't store them in the fridge or anywhere that gets direct sunlight .
Unfortunately , even if you press it , it will tend to crumble . The way the curds form in small curd cottage cheese forms a skin that makes them tend to fall apart . The same thing can happen in making Indian style paneer if you let the curds boil . ( At least , I think it is why it happened ! ) Probably your best bet is to drain it then make something like vada or kofte ( for malai kofte ) out of it , mixing in some maida or cooked potato or besan and kneading it into a dough , then forming it into balls or patties . I think it will still be tasty , even though it is n't what you planned for .
Braising gently in milk will also , I find , help with bitterness . The radicchio becomes wonderfully succulent , very nice with a firm-fleshed fish .
If you add too much water your jello ( jelly in some parts of the world ) will not solidify . What I would suggest is looking for a non-sweetened gelatin mix and adding less sugar to it . Alternatively you could get gelatin sheets or powder and make your own from scratch . It 's not that hard to do and you get exactly what you want .
I think it 's more about technique than what fat you use when you 're looking for crispy outsides ( I 'm sure there is at least one question here already that has the technique answers ) . About the only solid advice I would give is that you need to find a fat that tastes good to you , or is neutral if that 's your preference , and make sure the one you use wo n't burn at the temperature you 're using . Beyond that , it 's all about taste and technique . edit : I looked for questions that might have solid technique answers , but did n't find any . So I looked out on the greater web and found some advice from Cook 's Illustrated . <URL> It does n't have the recipe for free , but the advice is good : Parcook at a fast simmer , get a little rough with the parcooked potatoes to rough up the outside , choose the right potatoes ( they liked Yukon Golds ) .
Sure , just roast them in a pan with oil for few seconds , not long enough to darken , and remove the nuts . As soon as you remove the cashews from oil they are sticky , then you need to sprinkle salt on it . Do n't add much -- add slightly , checking the taste , and then mix according to the taste you require .
Oil and butter do n't have the same capacity to hold the sugar/sweetener used in the mix . Whatever is n't dissolved fully in the shortening will still be bound up in the final product ( or maybe end up mostly in the outer crust ) , and you 'll likely perceive the difference as more/less sweet . The main cause is that butter has quite a lot of water bound up in it , which you would n't find at all in oil . You might get a closer similarity by comparing melted , evaporated butter to oil ( 1-to-1 proportion ) , since solid &amp; melted butter have different volumes depending on how much water you 've evaporated ( 1 cup solid / = 1 cup melted ) . I 've got an answer in another question that applies more generally to different phases of shortenings and perceived/actual sweetness - <URL>
Chilies are dried before grinding . There are several ways to dry them : Leave them in an exposed part of the fridge for several weeks . There should be a lot of open air around it , to allow moisture to escape . String them up outside . To do this , poke holes and run strings through them and tie the strings up so they 're spread out . For best results , you should do this during hot , dry weather , and ensure they get plenty of sunlight . Expect it to take several weeks . Oven-dry them at low temperatures . You want temperatures to be under 150 ° F/65 ° C so as not to cook them , and it will take several hours to a day or two . Reduce the temperature if you see the peppers darkening or turning black . Rotate the peppers regularly to allow even drying , and leave the oven door slightly open to allow moisture to escape . If you wish to have a little more roasted flavor , increase the temperature . Use a freeze-drying machine or dehydrator . Discard any peppers with rotten spots , both before and after drying . Before grinding , remove stems and seeds . Grinding : I 've successfully used a blade-type coffee grinder to grind dried peppers into flakes . A blender or food processor should also work , assuming you are handling larger quantities . I must confess puzzlement about what exactly a " mixer-grinder " is , even after consulting the link . I believe the appliance may not have an exact equivalent in Europe or the United States . However , if it is suitable for blending or grinding it should work fine for dried peppers . I should add that you ought to wear gloves when handling the peppers , and beware of the fumes from the dehydrator or oven , as they may be very pungent . In extreme causes , protective goggles may be a good idea .
I think the toffee potatoes in the article must be Brune kartofler ; the literal translation is " brown potatoes " . They are simply small potatoes covered in caramelized sugar . The photo Ocaasi links to are potatoes gone terribly wrong . I think the photo caption is ironic . They are a traditional side dish for any christmas meal with pork roast or duck . Here is a video that shows how they are made : <URL> . The recipe is as follows : Boil small potatoes . Peel them . Distribute sugar evenly in the pan . Warm until the sugar caramelizes . Add butter in small pieces ( amount of butter and sugar are equal ) . When the butter is incorporated add the potatoes . Distribute the caramel over the potates . After 10 minutes the potatoes are done . They should now have a nice layer of caramel around them .
end question
start question
How to make - succulent - Bruschetta ?
There 's just no comparison between in-season , local tomatoes that you get in Italy and the supermarket crap you get anywhere else , which probably accounts for most of the difference . Your best bet is to look for heirloom tomatoes , in season . Failing that , try New Jersey beefsteak tomatoes , again , in season . Or any of the " vine ripened " tomatoes you see in fancy grocery stores , although every year those get harder and more tasteless . Finally , if desperate , and you have no choice but to use supermarket rock tomatoes , at least get plum tomatoes , which manage to retain a tiny bit of flavor . Bruschetta is just : yesterday 's bread ( ciabatta or a French baguette ) , thinly sliced , brushed with olive oil , and grilled or toasted chopped tomatoes garlic , basil , Italian parsley , and any other tasty herbs you have lying around ( Oregano ? ) The finest extra virgin olive oil in the house Salt and pepper to taste
Interesting question . Did search ' how do I make puffed rice ' . Came up with some interesting information . There are some writings that suggest that puffed rice can be made like popcorn ; get the moisture in the grains of rice to the correct level ( no idea what the level should be , experimentation should guide you I suppose ) and then ( depending on what source you read ) put in a popcorn popper , put it on sheets in the oven or fry it in oil . The history indicates that the first puffed rice made in the U.S. was actually shot from a cannon , after , I presume , being thoroughly soaked to some level of softness ; there was a cereal advert in the '60s that bragged " this is the cereal that 's shot from guns " . Am thinking that the softening of the rice , probably by cooking , and then putting it into a pressure vessel in which the pressure is allowed to rise to a certain PSI ( pounds per square inch ) and explosively releasing the pressure , causes the grains to boil or fizz or effervesce , gives them the light puffiness we see at the market . If I 'm reading the information correctly , the devices to make puffed rice are available Here is a link to a video showing the explosive creation of puffed rice by a traveling puffed rice manufactury on a bicycle in Taiwan ; <URL> Here are some other links , kind of vague , regarding non explosive puffed rice : <URL> <URL> <URL> This last link has some history &amp; speculation of how puffed rice has been made non explosively using hot salt , or sand ... did n't read all of the ideas . Have fun , and be safe .
If you are handy with electrics and electronics , linking a heating element to a PID controller is probably your best bet for stability . This will give you quite stable temperatures . You can find many sets of instructions by googling <URL> , which is a very similar application , although higher temperature ranges are usually the goal .
This is what we figured out at Serious Eats : <URL> In sum , use more sugar , whip the cream , freeze in icecube trays and run through a Cuisinart at the end .
What I 've done in the past is mist some water on both sides of the bread slices , then put them in the microwave for 10-15 seconds ( alternatively , an oven set at 300F/150C for 5-10 minutes will do it too ) . Experiment with the amount of water ( but keep it low ) and cooking times . You should get much softer ( and warm ) bread slices out of it .
Basically , it is that easy . But it is a costly endeaver . I have know chefs to make it with a pure olive oil or grape seed oil . Some heat it to 220 degrees or so but I have meet some that do n't . The ones that did n't made sure to pull the oxygen from the bottle with one of those wine vacuum savers . I have been told self made truffle oil will lose it truffle flavor due to most the flavor actually coming from an odorant . I have not personally made any so I ca n't speak from experience on how long it will hold . All the above being said . If I had the money to buy some truffle , I am not sure the best use for them would be to make truffle oil .
You have basically made tea-flavoured vodka . The <URL> ( for essential oil ) is unrelated to the <URL> for the beverage . Commercially , tea tree oil is produced by <URL> , specifically <URL> . Though possible to obtain leaves and perform the distillation , it 's probably not practical on a small scale outside of the tea tree production regions . For completeness , <URL> is toxic ; you do n't want to eat it . What you used was conventional tea leaves . The tea beverage is made by steeping ( soaking in hot water ) leaves of the <URL> , which have been dried or otherwise prepared ( e.g. , fermented , roasted , etc. ) .
Does it work ? Yes , it does . The idea is to create something akin to an individual " dutch oven " around the chicken or fish you are baking . The meat is " steamed " in his own juices . There are a bunch of different " recipes " for the salt crust , often with some " binding agent " like egg whites . Usually , the skin is removed when serving ( go ahead , give it a try , if you like ) , so rest assured that the meat underneath is not too salty . An alternative to salt ( and arguably more " paleo style " ) would be baking in clay . A quick internet search should yield plenty of recipes for both varieties . ( Remenber : asking for recipes is a big no-no here . )
If you add too much water your jello ( jelly in some parts of the world ) will not solidify . What I would suggest is looking for a non-sweetened gelatin mix and adding less sugar to it . Alternatively you could get gelatin sheets or powder and make your own from scratch . It 's not that hard to do and you get exactly what you want .
It sounds like you rendered too much gelatin into the soup , a couple easy fixes are to either : prepare another batch of the soup omitting the ham and bone and then marry the two over a medium/high heat thin with a low fat/nonfat liquid like milk or water ( unfortunately a side effect will be of increased separation in the soup as it cools ) the lower the fat content of what you add the more it will separate . ie adding 2 % milk will cause less separating than skim milk
I 've heard that you can extract oils from leafy greens and once concentrated will provide a reddish tint/glow under a black light . The problem is it may not be any more palatable over gelatin . Your best bet may be to go with mint , but I 'm sure most aromatic herbs would work . Start by blanching a couple of handfuls your chosen greens for a few minutes followed by an ice water bath . Once cooled dry the greens and blend with just barely enough light vegetable oil to make it bind . Think pesto . Keep blending , your goal here is to really break up the cell walls so that the greens will release their oils . Press and strain the mixture retaining the herb oil . Use as appropriate . Maybe mixed into a whipped cream topping for the jello . It may also be possible to create a tincture of those herbs with a clear alcohol that will glow , but obviously you do n't want to give that to the kids either . Beyond that overripe bananas give off a slight blue glow , but probably not enough to be remarkable .
Use a pressure cooker . Try for example this recipe : <URL> where dried hominy is cooked in a pressure cooker .
You pour in the batter , wait for the underside to be cooked ( some brown patches ) , flip it , then put cheese on the ( browned ) top . With spek ( bacon ) , you do n't need to do this , you can just put the spek into the pan , fry it until done , then pour batter over it , and proceed as normal . Dutch pancakes are fairly thin , so they do n't take very long to cook . Spek wo n't get properly crisp if you pour the batter on it immediately , also because the watery batter cools it down . Apple pieces wo n't burn either , so you can put those in first ( I hate those , they will make your pancake break ! ) .
There 's <URL> . <URL> seems pretty simple . It looks like in general , you : Liquify your peppers Cook the result with vinegar Strain it Cook the result with salt and sugar Add some pectin Add some whole jalepenos ( probably optional ) Transfer to jars
Adding a little bicarbonate of soda ( baking soda ) to the beans when soaking overnight should help soften them .
Gravity is making the petals open . If you look at the shape of the petals their center of gravity is towards the outside of the bowl , but they are being held in place by something underneath . I suspect that it 's simply one piece of chocolate melted onto another . When the custard ( warm or hot ) is poured on it melts the bonds holding the petals in place allowing them to fall .
I went ahead and tried it . I used hard-boiled yolks , as a soft and slimy one would be not really different from making the mayo in a waterbath . It turned out to be incredibly fickle . The first try , only yolk and oil , with immersion blender , split immediately and never recovered . The second try was supposed to incorporate the bad emulsion . I first made a paste from the yolk with a few milliliters of lemon juice and water , then started adding the bad emulsion , beating with a mixer this time . I got a thick suspension of yolk particles in oil , but it was n't emulsified . The third try worked at first . Again , I started with yolk and water and lemon juice , and then added the oil in really tiny amounts , half a teaspoonful at once . I used the mixer again . It emulsified , but was runny . I kept adding oil , and it was a nice emulsion , but very soft , runnier than soft peaks , like a batter . And then , one of the teaspoons of oil broke the emulsion completely :( I do n't know how the emulsion in the picture is made , maybe the sources I have heard of forget to mention that the yolk should n't be hard boiled ( mine was longer boiled than the one in the forum picture ) . If this is the case , then obviously there is nothing unusual happening here - the yolk retains some of its emulsifying power even after boiling ( I suppose it is the lecithine ) , but many of the substances which are actively helping the emulsion when heated around 70 ° C do n't work any more . So , working with cooked yolks is possible , but much harder than the normal heated raw yolks . Which makes me think that there is no reason to try further to use cooked yolks . I ca n't comment on taste , did n't try the emulsion before it split . After splitting , the yolk-containing oil is still usable as a bread dip , but does n't taste well enough to be made on purpose .
I would use the oven . The dehydrator will obviously remove water , but it wo n't toast the granola like an oven would . You could always try super-dehydrating half a batch and ovening another .
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
You are n't going to be able to get a sourdough starter from flour to ready-to-bake in 24 hours . You could easily make a poolish or pâte fermentée in that time , and get some of the flavor . You might also be able to use some yogurt whey or another source of lactic acid to get some of the sour flavor . Unfortunately , a sour starter is something that you kind of need to keep going and have on hand .
end question
start question
Can i freeze chocolate cream frosting / ganache ?
You may absolutely freeze chocolate ganache and most other chocolate preparations . It should keep for up to a year without any noticeable change in quality . Try to get a tight seal so it does n't pick up other freezer odours . Use a small freezer bag if you can , and maybe put that in a hard sealable container as well . The freezing itself wo n't hurt the ganache at all but if it catches a whiff of those tuna casserole leftovers then you wo n't want to use it !
The percentage of milk-fat determines the name . It is different from region to region . In the US , heavy whipping Cream is above % 36 fat . You can see <URL> for the naming convention and fat content . For a chocolate mousse you 're generally looking for cream with fat contents between % 30 and % 40 . Otherwise you can get a phase-inversion in your mousse emulsion ( it break or collapses ) . There are Chocolate mousse recipes using butter instead of cream . It makes for a slightly different tasting chocolate mousse , but hey , it 's chocolate mousse . You may be able to cheat using an emulsifier such as soy lecithin to keep the emulsion stable . Gelatin does thicken things , but you 're likely to lose the air bubbles in the mousse and get a denser mix .
Every time I make brownies , I always get compliments on how fudgy they are . There may be some variations based on the recipe you use , but the three things I 've found to be most important in my experience are : Do n't even think about using a boxed/pre-made mix ! Bake from scratch - it adds a whole 3-5 minutes of extra prep time for brownies , but the taste and texture would be worth it even if it added an hour . Use fewer eggs . I use the King Arthur Flour " Grandmother 's brownies " recipe ; I can only find an online copy for the 200th Anniversary edition , but those instructions are n't the same as the older version my mom 's cookbook has . The recipe calls for 2-4 eggs per batch ( a batch is a 9x9 " square pan ) , and instructs you to use more eggs for a cakier brownie , fewer for a fudgier one . I 've found that 3 eggs works best for me . Use brown sugar for at least some of the total sugar in the recipe . The King Arthur Flour recipe calls for 2 cups of sugar , either white or brown . I typically split 50/50 ; the brown sugar adds a nice flavor , and I think the moisture in it helps achieve that fudgy consistency , too . There 's another element to changing the consistency , too : cooking time . Most brownie recipes I 've seen say to bake for 35-45 minutes ; I almost never bake them for more than 30 because I find that the edges start to get really dried out . Undercooking slightly will keep the brownies moist and fudgy . The ingredients from the old " Grandmother 's Brownies " King Arthur Flour recipe : 4 ounces ( squares ) unsweetened chocolate [ can substitute 1-ounce square = 3 tbs cocoa powder + 1 tbs butter ) ; 1/2 cup ( 1 stick ) butter ; 2 cups sugar and/or brown sugar ; 2 to 4 eggs ; 1/2 teaspoon salt ; 2 teaspoons vanilla ; 1 cup flour
Peanut butter might work . It is safe at room temperature and not really sweet . It is somewhat soft , but so is the canned cheese . Natural peanut butter with the oil poured off might be thicker for use as mortar . The flavor would be good with pretzels .
An easy way of incorporating a spicy kick into any existing chocolate cake recipe that uses actual chocolate would be to substitute a portion of the called for chocolate ( with a matching chocolate type ; i.e. dark and dark , milk and milk ) that already has cayenne or some other hot pepper ingredient . Of course , you will need to experiment to get the right level of heat . Adding straight cayenne powder while the chocolate is melted , or shredded would also be an ideal time to ensure even distribution of the spice . In the event your recipe does not use an actual chocolate base , but rather something that replicates the flavor , the time to add the cayenne would be when the ' flavor packet ' is added .
I would halve the amount of icing sugar and substitute in cocoa powder . As long as you sift the cocoa powder well you should still have a smooth icing at the end . Provided your chocolate is n't milk chocolate you should still have a ' proper ' chocolate flavour as well .
The most common methods to create chocolate coated ice cream bars , with or without a stick are to : Use truly tempered chocolate , which may be more trouble than it is worth Use a mixture of chocolate thinned with vegetable oil . See for example , this recipe from <URL> .
In my experience , the answer for most leafy herbs is yes , fragance and flavor is preserved . Never tryed hyssop , however <URL> site says it freezes fine : it can be dried or frozen and stored for later use . When harvesting a hyssop plant , cut it in the morning hours once any dew has dried . Hang the plants upside down in small bunches to dry in a dark , well-ventilated area . Alternatively , you can place the leaves in a plastic bag after removing them from the stems and place in the freezer until ready to use .
After a quick Google search , I found <URL> that deals with this exact matter . They 'll grate well and it 's handy when ( just semi-defrost them ) you need some grated zest as you can just pull out a bag from the freezer and sprinlkle them into your recipe . They 'll juice but you need to defrost them which I 'm told is best done by ' zapping ' them in the microwave for 30 seconds . Apparently you get more juice after they 've been frozen as it bursts the cell walls releasing more juice . Hope this helps !
It should be OK , especially if you are purchasing already homogenized almond milk . If you are using homemade almond milk , your glaze wo n't be perfectly smooth , which may or may not bother you . Your " glaze " is a standard ganache , and it can be , in principle , made with water or any real dairy . The only purpose of the liquid is to change the consistency of the chocolate to something thinner and softer than a chocolate bar . Cream is the standard choice because it imparts a luscioius creaminess . But you can use lower fat dairy , or cultured dairy products , or even water , if you want a slightly different taste . A nut milk is simply finely ground nuts mixed with water , frequently also sweetened . It has its own taste , but nuts and chocolate are a classic combination , and even if people notice the faint taste , they are n't likely to complain . Texturewise , there will be no problem from adding it to the chocolate .
If what you 're looking for is a close substitute for whipped cream frosting , that narrows the <URL> down . <URL> is made with a sugar syrup ( with cream of tartar and other flavorings ) which is boiled and added to whipped egg whites which set with the residual heat . It is a light and fluffy frosting which contains no fats . <URL> is made with whipped egg whites and sugar ( and other flavorings ) which is then heated over a double boiler to set the egg whites . This frosting is thick and fluffy , though it will deflate over time unless baked . French style meringue frosting is supposedly left uncooked , which may change the flavors . You might also want to look at Royal icing , made with <URL> or <URL> and powdered sugar , which does not require cooking , and will have a similar flavor profile to boiled or meringue style frosting . However , the texture is not fluffy but smooth , and it tends to be dried hard , and used for structure or decoration . For textural purposes , you wo n't find a better match for whipped cream style frosting than whipped egg white based frosting . If you 're looking for flavor profile rather than texture , you might try a simple <URL> that 's thinned with milk instead of water ( possibly with a small amount of butter for flavor ) . Something like <URL> might work well , with both butter and milk in the mix , though you can certainly tweak your proportions to your taste . Or something like <URL> which includes flour and egg white along with butter , milk and sugar for a complex frosting recipe that might be less sweet . And , finally , you might look at <URL> , which includes butter , marshmallow fluff , sugar and milk , and which should be light , fluffy , and sweet . There are also <URL> which include actual marshmallows instead of fluff , melting them into something like a boiled icing recipe , or into a <URL> . Other frosting recipes might not be a good match for your preferences - the recipe you did n't like , of margarine and powdered sugar , seems very similar to a <URL> recipe , which is thicker , sweeter and richer than whipped cream frosting . Likewise , cream cheese frosting ( similar to buttercream with butter , sugar and milk in addition to the actual cream cheese ) is less sweet , but tends towards creamy , dense and smooth rather than light and fluffy . And ganache frosting , made with chocolate and cream , is flavored , denser , and requires the missing ingredient ( cream ) itself . You might check out the <URL> buttercream frostings , though , as they are lighter , fluffier , and less sweet than the American version - both the <URL> and <URL> are close to a mix of meringue and boiled style frosting ( respectively ) and buttercream . The <URL> version , on the other hand , uses egg yolks with the sugar syrup and butter for a richer flavor .
Once you 've got your wet ingredients in there the timer is running . The chemical rising action only lasts a little while , and you want as much of that as possible to happen while the muffins are in the oven . If you wait past that window your muffins are n't going to rise very well , if at all , and I think you 'd definitely run into that with freezing the mixture . Even if freezing the batter would stop the chemical reaction ( which I seriously doubt ) , you would n't be able to make use of that fact . Using a conventional freezer , the cooling process is going to be fairly gradual . Your batter is going to be at an active temperature for quite a while before eventually reaching the mythical non-reactive temperature -- far longer than the chemical rising action lasts . And then as you thaw the batter you have another lengthy period where your chemical clock is ticking , long before you can get it in the oven .
If really want to substitute for that coconut oil in this particular application , you want a pure , relatively flavorless , saturated fat . This will be one that is solid at room temperature . That means commercial shortening , such as the US brand Crisco . Update : cocoa butter itself , of course would be ideal , if you can get it . But , then you would want to temper it . In that case , well , see below ... However , in my opinion : Your best bet , if you are willing to do the necessary work , for a crisp true chocolate coating is to use ... pure chocolate . Nothing else . The trick is to ensure that your chocolate is in temper . ( You can read more about it within the <URL> ) . This means that it is melted and then cooled in such as way as to ensure the cocoa butter forms the most desirable crystals , which have a melting point near mouth temperature , and a smooth , crisp bite . You can google many detailed articles on how to temper chocolate , with many variant methods . For example , here is one from <URL> . For small batches at home , I have found the following method to be very successful , using 100 % real chocolate such as Merkens or Ghirardelli ( or many other brands ) . That is , chocolate that is made of nothing but cocoa butter , cocoa solids , sugar , flavoring , and maybe some lecithen . You do n't want other fats . In general , you should avoid chocolate chips ( which may not be true chocolate ) unless you know your manufacturer actually uses 100 % true chocolate in their chips ( a small number do ) . Break the chocolate up into small chunks ( maybe 1/2 inch or 1 cm in size ) Place in a glass microwave safe bowl . The purpose of the glass bowl is to absorb the heat from the chocolate , and then keep it relatively stable and warm . Place the chocolate in the microwave at very low power . I use level 2 on my microwave . It will take a very long time , maybe 8-10 minutes , even to be partially melted . This is okay . Every so often , stir the chocolate so it is heating fairly evenly . ( The glass bowl also helps by adding thermal mass ... ) Keep microwaving on low , until the chocolate is almost all melted , checking more and more frequently as you get close . When the chocolate is about 90 % melted , take it out and let the residual heat from the bowl and the chocolate melt the rest . Do one last stir , so that the various crystal types and seeds are evenly distributed , just in case some small part of the chocolate went out temper in this process . Again , I emphasize , patience and going slow here is the key . This method trades time for complexity . The key to this method is : commercial chocolate is already in temper . By barely melting it ( and I mean barely ) , we keep it temper . We do n't have to do all the hard stuff with thermometers and carefully regulating the temperature up to melt the bad crystals , then down to seed the good ones and so on . Once you have your tempered melted chocolate , you can use it to coat candies , cookies , or ( one of my favorites ) stir in a crunchy breakfast cereal , coconut flakes , or nuts to make little candies ... the applications are endless .
The standard recommended temperature for a home freezer is 0 ° F ( -18 ℃ ) . Regular ice cream keeps best at -5 ° F to 0 ° F. However , the proper storage temperature for soft serve ice cream is 18 ° F ( -7 ℃ ) . While you could raise the temperature of your freezer to accommodate this , it really would n't be recommended for the rest of your frozen foods . Short of that , your best option would be to get a tiny freezer just for your soft serve so that you can keep it at at higher temperature without risking the quality of your other food .
Yes , you can freeze either the wrappers or the pre-made rolls and they will work fine . The wrappers I buy are typically frozen .
Because of the dairy products , you should n't leave it un-chilled for more than 4 hours . It 's always best to cover your food to prevent dust ( or cat fur , for example ) from covering it . Unless the frosting is really wet and gooey ( which might run into the cake ) , it 's OK to frost now .
Yes , you can temper the callets . Couverture is couverture , and the only thing that 's really different about the callets is their shape - they 're specifically intended to be melted easily , unlike the bars which they ( sort of ) expect people to eat directly . The bars are less likely to melt during shipping which is why they also sell them in that form .
This really depends on your freezer and your icecream bowl . Usually the instructions will have a suggested freeze time on them ... In my experience , however , it 's usually 6-8 hours at a minimum . If you need to make multiple batches , it is ABSOLUTELY worth your money to get another bowl .
It has been said : Better safe than sorry . You have n't measured the absolute sugar or acidity levels . Freezing it will do no harm . -- <URL> <URL> I 'm definitely not an expert with baking , but I 've worked with fruits in other contexts . The only time I would be worried about freezing would be if I added oil , like for a marinade or such . In your context I think freezing is fine , and sounds like it would be a convenient way to make larger batches to reuse throughout the year . PS : That puree sounds awesome , I might have to try that to marinate some chicken or pork chops !
This can be a hard one to get right . There are three important phases of baking these : An brief initial high heat phase A longer lower heat phase A brief slow cooling phase For the initial phase I go with 400 ℉ for 15 minutes . The high heat provides a rapid rise with a hollow center . For the second phase I reduce the heat to 350 ℉ for 30-40 minutes . This phase allows the shells to firm up and dries out the center . At this point you should cut one of them in half and see how moist the center is . It 's important that the center of the dough be as dry as possible here , having an undercooked center is what causes the dough to deflate . A little bit of moisture is ok . For the final phase , turn the oven off and let them cool with the door ajar for 10-15 minutes . With the door fully open the rapid cooling can also trigger deflation .
end question
start question
Does caramelizing an onion increase its non-dietary fiber carbohydrates ?
Since dietary fiber is made mostly of cellulose that is n't broken down during cooking I do n't think it should be an issue . The browning that occurs is from the proteins and sugars already in the onion . <URL>
The purpose of using a low simmer during stock-making is to avoid agitating the liquid . You want the fat to settle on top , but a rapid boil will simply disperse the fat and other impurities all throughout the stock , resulting in - as you 've hinted at - a cloudy texture and possibly an inferior taste . The other reason to avoid boiling is simply to prevent the stock from reducing too much . If you 're simmering for 6 hours , you could lose all the water . If you leave the stock unattended during that time , and the water level drops too low , then you 're not getting anything out of it ; the water needs to be covering the bones in order to break down the collagen . All that said , once you are finished with stock , you should have skimmed it and strained it through a fine sieve and probably a few layers of cheesecloth as well . If you 've made your stock correctly , it will be clear and have ( almost ) no fat . Boiling it briefly at that point is n't really going to harm it ; there 's not enough fat left to cloud the stock and you 're not boiling it for long enough to really reduce it . So I would say go ahead and do n't worry about the temperature . As far as I know , nothing magical happens at 180 ° F , that 's just a rough temperature guideline for " low simmer " .
Butter can go bad . The oils will go rancid if exposed to too much light and heat for too long . This accelerates the process of oxidation , which happens even if you keep the butter in the fridge . Even in the fridge your butter will eventually go bad . Personally I follow the dates on all packages . I do so with an awareness that they usually tend to be conservative , which keeps me comfortable . Rancid butter in a taste test wo n't kill you , though . It 'll just taste bad . So you should be able to taste this butter to see if it is bad . While I recommend following the dates on packaging , here are signs that your butter has actually gone bad : discoloration melting ( which will happen outside of the fridge , you probably would n't see it ) sour smell sour and unusual taste
Yes , onions contain sugar , just like most fruit and vegetables . It is not simply a common phrase , it is true caramelization . They have 4.24 g of sugar per 100 g in total ( wet weight ) . For dry weight 40 % is sugar . See <URL> for more details .
Onions always benefit from a few minutes on their own to soften and start sweetening . Garlic burns easily , especially when finely chopped or crushed , so in general should not be fried as long as onion . Having said that , when doing a quick stir fry or similar dish , you can throw in the garlic first for 10-20 seconds so that it flavours the oil .
Olives ( and onions ) are a very traditional garnish used by bartenders to add a slightly savory flavor to a drink . As with many things behind the bar , they 're used nowadays largely because they 're iconic , but they do have a subtle effect on flavor . It 's not really known where traditional garnishes such as citrus peels , cherries , olives/onions , and mint sprigs originated , but they 're found in the earliest known published bartender 's manual . ( This was <URL> ' How to Mix Drinks or the Bon-Vivant 's Companion ; cocktail historian David Wondrich 's book <URL> , which reorganizes and provides context for the original , is required reading for the modern cocktail nerd . ) These garnishes may have started with early drink families called cobblers and juleps which feature fresh berries and mint , respectively . Over time , drinks got more elaborate and drinkers came to expect something added to their drinks to give them more visual appeal . <URL> . At first , as seen in other early bartending guides , bartenders just tossed whatever they had ( usually preserved or pickled items that kept well including nuts , olives , and cherries ) into the drink on hand . Eventually they sorted themselves out and figured out that olives or onions went best with savory drinks such as the Martini , and cherries went best with sweeter drinks such as the Manhattan . The tradition solidified a few years before <URL> in the US , and was one of the practices that survived the resulting upheaval in drinking traditions . In the 1950s , Martini practices grew more variable ; when ordering , you 'd be quizzed about whether you wanted vodka or gin , shaken or stirred , an olive or a twist , without any particular standard . The olive may have become even more tightly associated with the Martini later on , when drinks began skewing to sweet and fruity in the late 1960s and 1970s , and fresh citrus started disappearing behind the bar . For whatever reason , bartenders also seem to have forgotten how to store vermouth ( which , since it 's a wine , will go off if stored at room temperature and allowed to oxidize ) and the olives may have been the only thing preventing Martinis from being unpleasantly bitter . By the 1980s , the " dirty " Martini ( which adds a dash or more of olive brine ) emerged as one of the few options for drinkers who wanted a non-sweet cocktail at a bar . Fortunately , we 've now come full circle , and a Martini closer to the original pre-Prohibition version can be found at many cocktail bars ( usually with a twist of lemon peel ) . But the olive has now been firmly established as the traditional Martini garnish for multiple generations . One of the main reasons that the briny olive works as a garnish is because a small amount of salt is a flavor enhancer , which is why just about every savory dish that we eat ( and some sweet ones , ala salted caramel ) contain at least some salt . There are n't many drinks where salt is added directly , but there are certain drinks ( such as the <URL> ) where it 's an important part of the flavor , and <URL> with a culinary background use a couple drops of salt solution in almost all of their drinks . Some people particularly like this in a Martini , especially if that 's what they 're used to . So , the tl ; dr : It 's now seen as traditional , some people really like the salty flavor it adds , and it works pretty well in a largely savory drink like the Martini .
There are a variety of factors at work here : Freezing foods " improperly " ( i.e. not flash-frozen , not vacuum-sealed ) causes ice crystals to form within the food , damaging the molecular structures . This is what causes many frozen leftovers to become " mushy " or change in texture . Again due to the formation of ice and the movement of water when the food is reheated , tiny particles such as spices can be lost in steam and/or runoff water . Extreme temperatures ( both hot and cold ) can denature enzymes in the food , changing their flavor , texture , etc. . As food sits , flavors in the food may blend together in different ways , causing the food to have less distinct flavors . If your freezer is n't especially clean and your food not well-sealed , your food may be absorbing other odors which are again " masking " the original flavor of your food . Hope that gives you some ideas .
Breathe through your mouth . The tear-causing chemicals in onions are absorbed through the nasal mucous membrane . By breathing through your mouth , they do n't get much contact with the fumes and wo n't absorb nearly as much .
So ... I was always taught that you remove it because it 's bitter . I generally remove it if it 's big enough . However , there seems to be some contention as to whether this is true ( and to what degree it 's true ) . See : <URL> and <URL> In short , there are mixed teachings as to whether you should remove it . But essentially the germ DOES affect the taste of garlic . Some call it bitter , some call it " more garlicky " . Ruhlman suggests that if you 're hitting it with heat immediately , then there is n't a point in removing it . If he 's doing something that will have the garlic sitting around , then he does n't . From this what I 'd suggest ( and what I 'm going to try doing from now on ) is to ignore it and if you notice a difference in taste , or more importantly find the result objectionable . then take it out next time . Otherwise do n't bother as you wo n't know the difference .
It depends what the recipe is , but I 've successfully replaced brandy with orange juice or apple juice in the past . It 's not a direct replacement for the flavour , of course , but gives a similar strength of flavour , if you see what I mean .
Couverture chocolate is generally used in coating and molding because it has such a nice sheen due to its high cocoa butter content . It 's usually very high quality and so should taste very good straight out of the bag , although the texture will be more creamy than non couverture chocolates . Couverture is not better than other high quality chocolate , just for a specific application . You wo n't find much chocolate candy made from it , that 's not because the chocolate is n't good stuff , it simply that the effect the makers intend requires a lower level of cocoa butter . As for how to tell good quality chocolate from poor quality the best way to tell is to taste it .
I have an old SoyaQuick ( mine has a filter , newer models do n't ) , and I think it was largely a cleaning concern . The tiny perforations in the filter clogged very easily , and the instruction manual had a whole section of bizarre tips for cleaning it ( soak it in bleach ! squeeze a soapy sponge to one side to force the suds through ! ) There 's also some marketing speak about " leaving in the perfect amount of pulp for your taste ! " but that sounds like bull to me .
If you 're looking for alcoholic alternatives then you could use O'Mara 's or some other brand ( see <URL> for a good list ) . A light coffee liquer could also serve as a workable alternative . On the non-alcoholic side , Irish Cream flavored coffee creamers would work well . Coffee syrups like Monin 's or Torani 's also have Irish Cream flavors . I personally like Monin syrups because they 're all natural .
In the classic recipe the onions are chopped , personally , I like mine very thinly sliced . The cheese typically used is the French Comté but a good substitute is Swiss gruyère or even Swiss Emmenthal .
You 're correct - it 's a myth , as is adding something acidic to it like lemon juice -- see explanation <URL> . As you said , what causes it to brown is the oxidation , and that 's just exposure to the air . If you wrap a cut avocado ( or guacamole ) in plastic wrap so there 's no air space between the wrap and the avocado , then it will stay green longer than areas where air is getting to it .
Pureeing onions makes them release a lot more of their water than just chopping them , and if you added extra water on top of that , you probably had a very wet paste . That makes it take a lot longer to cook - while you 're just boiling away water , it 's not hot enough to brown much . So cook it as long as it takes - it 's not going to become bitter . ( If anything , it 'll get sweeter ! ) And if you want it to cook faster , do n't add extra water . If you watch carefully , you can also turn the stove up hotter at the beginning to boil off water faster , then reduce the heat once it 's drying out enough to avoid burning it . If whatever you used to make the puree does n't work well without the extra water , you can still use it ; just know that it 'll make it take longer to cook . Otherwise , you could try grating the whole onion on a cheese grater , which does a surprisingly good job - it 'll still be really juicy though !
I remain extremely skeptical that there is a right or wrong way to dress , pick up , eat , or otherwise deal with sushi . A <URL> for " is there a right way to eat sushi " turns up hundreds of pages , many with contradictory information . If there is a " right " way , it 's most certainly dictated by the locale or restaurant you 're in or the people you 're with . My advice is to do whatever you want , particularly if you 're paying for the meal . If you 're a guest , follow the lead of your hosts . But do n't sweat it . Enjoy it ! UPDATE since the original question has been edited ... what is the better way to dress sushi and sashimi . " Better " is still difficult to define for everyone , and will vary by each person 's taste . Something that " enhances " flavors for me may be completely unacceptable to you , and vice-versa . There 's no accounting for taste ! But since you made an effort to clarify your question , I am updating my answer accordingly . Sometimes the " better " dressing is none at all . This is particularly true for Unagi or others that have some kind of sauce already applied ( though I know some people who dip Unagi in soy sauce and claim it is great ) . I have a daughter with soy allergy , so she can not use soy sauce at all and does n't like wasabi . She enjoys eating salmon and tuna nigiri pieces completely plain . I 've tried it myself , and with good , fresh fish it is really good . I have heard of people dipping the pickled ginger in the soy sauce and using that as a kind of " brush " to gently apply soy sauce to the topping . That may be " better " if you are adept with chopsticks and enjoy pickled ginger along with soy . Some people dip only the topping into the soy sauce , to avoid getting the rice saturated . This is a little easier to do if you use your fingers to pick up the sushi pieces ( and according to <URL> this is perfectly acceptable for sushi ) ( but <URL> ) . Some people mix wasabi ( sometimes , copious amounts ) in with the soy sauce and dip the sushi into that mixture . Some suggest that <URL> .
All distilled spirits have no carbohydrates at all . Vodka , whisky , whatever . Only alcohol , water and aromatic compounds can ascend the spiral in a distillation process . So a standard alcohol portion ( 10g ethanol ) from a distilled spirit has 0 grams carbohydrate . Properly made table wine should n't conatin carbs either , as all the grape carbs should be fermented . Sometimes substances which are n't recognized in a food are counted towards carbohydrates , that 's what a <URL> claims is made with wine . Then there is sweet dessert wine , there you have 3-4 grams of carbs per 10 grams of ethanol ( 70-100 ml depending on wine ) , because it has more sugar . I did n't find information on fortified wine , but as they have more alcohol than sweet dessert wine and probably about as much unfermented sugar , it is about the same or somewhat less . In beer , expect something like 7-8 g carbohydrates per 200 ml ( I am assuming an average ABV of 5 % ) . A big comparison of American beers is given <URL> I ca n't help you with liqueurs , they typically are infusions of plants in distilled alcohol , but may have sugar and other stuff added . It depends on recipe .
The main things that can go bad with flour , assuming it is properly stored are : Rancidity Insect infestation If you do n't see any insects , and it still smells good , you should feel free to use it . If it smells off or nasty -- trust me , your nose will tell you -- then you will want to discard it . The actual date on the bag is only a guideline .
It 's the exact same as a Tupperware , and totally unnecessary ... Unless you need the visual key of an onion shaped tupperware to remind you that onion is inside .
end question
start question
How to poach an egg without vinegar ?
Heston Blumenthal has brought his unique scientific approach to bear on this recently . The main pointers for a perfect poached egg are as follows : The egg must be fresh . A fresh egg has a thicker , more gel-like albumen . As it gets older , this becomes watery , and so just disperses throughout the water when you add it . To test if your egg is fresh , place it in a jug of cold water . If it floats , it 's not fresh - the egg has had time to absorb air through its shell . A fresh egg sinks and stays sunk . The water temperature should be 80ºC / 176ºF exactly . You can measure this with a sugar or probe thermometer . The egg should be at room temperature . The egg should not come into contact with direct heat , so put a plate or small bowl on the bottom of the pan , bottom up . Once the water ( in a medium to large saucepan ) is up to temperature , carefully add the fresh egg and cook for 4 minutes exactly ( for a large egg of the domestic chicken , Gallus gallus domesticus ) . Drain and serve - the white should be set but not rubbery ( a drawback of using vinegar ) and the yolk should be creamy and rich .
Butter is typically added when the fudge is first taken off the heat - but it is n't mixed in . The butter is allowed to melt across the surface to keep it from forming a skin on top . Vanilla , nuts , and all other additions are mixed in at the end of the cooling period when the fudge is stirred . Alton Brown , with some help from Shirley Corriher , <URL> .
While the above suggestions would get rid of the oil splatter problem , they would also result in overcooked meat with a soggy exterior , as all the water created during frying ( for example , chicken releases a lot of juice ) would remain in the pan and steam the meat instead of frying it . Your best bet is to get something called a splatter screen . I 've seen one at <URL> , and at walmart , and I would assume kitchen supply stores would carry it too . A splatter screen is basically a fine metal mesh lid with a handle that fits over a variety of pans/pots and while it allows the steam to escape it also prevents the oil from splattering everywhere by catching in it the fine mesh . The best $ 10 you 'll ever spend .
First , buy a thermometer , they 're cheap . This one topped America 's Test Kitchen testing : <URL> Barring taking the plunge and spending $ 6 on an oven thermometer , this method comes straight from an online class I 'm taking from Harvard through edX.org . <URL> To test the oven , you can either use an oven thermometer , or you can find a material that has a transition at some critical temperature , and then tune your oven near the critical temperature where the transition occurs -- to find out if it actually happens . Jeff Potters has suggested a wonderful idea in his excellent book Cooking for Geeks . Namely , he suggests that oven testing can be done with melting sugar . His protocol is here . The calibration is based on the idea that the melting point of table sugar ( sucrose ) is 366 F ( 186 ˚C ) , [ google " melting point sucrose " ] and so if you put the temperature just above 366 , the sugar should melt . And if you put it just below 366 F it should not melt . It is important when doing this procedure to not use a lot of sugar , as otherwise the heating time for the sugar could be too long . Materials : ~ 1/2 tablespoon granulated sugar Procedure : 1 ) Preheat your oven to 350F ( 177 ˚C ) . ( 2 ) Place the granulated sugar in an oven proof dish or on aluminum foil ( 3 ) Place in oven for 15 minutes ( 4 ) If the sugar does n't melt , raise the temperature of the oven by 10F ( 5 ˚C ) and repeat the experiment . ( 5 ) Continue raising the temperature until you find the temperature setting where your sugar melts . Let 's call this temperature Tmelt . ( 6 ) You have thus found that the sugar melts somewhere in the interval Tmelt-10 , Tmelt . ( i.e. , if you found that the sugar melted at 400F , but not 390F , the melting temperature is between 390 and 400 . ) ( 7 ) Your measurement suggests that your oven has the approximate calibration curve T = Tdial + 366 - Tmelt ( if you use degrees Fahrenheit ) T = Tdial + 186 - Tmelt ( if you use degrees Celsius ) where Tdial is the temperature of the dial . Note that if your dial says that sugar melts at 400 , this formula states that the actual temperature in the oven is the temperature that the sugar melts ( 366F ) . " Here is another method , this one is from Cook 's Illustrated , AKA America 's Test Kitchen . I copied and pasted the technique from <URL> Preheat oven to 350F . Start with 1 cup of room temperature water and check its temperature with an immersion thermometer . Adjust the temperature with either warm or cold water to make it 70F . place in oven for 15 minutes . Check temperature again and it should read 150F . Adjust oven temperature accordingly . Another way to check oven temp is to simply boil water . Put a couple of cups of water in an oven proof pan and set the oven temp to 200F or 90C , the water should n't boil no matter how long you leave it in the oven . Set the temp to 225F or 110C . Eventually , the water should boil . All that said , buy a thermometer .
Chefs are really fast at cooking . It 's what they do . A chef can almost effortlessly crack an egg with one-hand in about a second . Scrambled eggs would be pre-cracked and beaten prior to the cooking-shift .
It means , basically , to stir in some warm liquid to prevent it from later curdling . Once the egg is warmed and mixed with some of your sauce , it can safely be incorporated into the rest of the high-temperature sauce without ( as much ) fear that you 're going to end up with scrambled eggs floating around in your hollandaise . Generally , you crack the egg in a bowl , and spoon in a little sauce , mix it , spoon in a little more , mix it , and then you should be good to go . It goes without saying that if the sauce you spoon in curdles the egg , discard , and start again .
Fried Eggs : Sunny Side Up -- Not flipped , unbroken yolk . The top of the egg is just barely set . Basted -- Sunny Side Up , hot fat spooned over until the white surrounding the yolk is opaque . Over Easy / lite -- Flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk runny . Over medium -- flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk creamy ( not completely runny ) . Over Medium Well -- Flipped , unbroken yolk , yolk cooked to have a firm but wet-appearing center . Over Hard -- Flipped , broken , fully-cooked yolk . Over Well -- Flipped , intact , fully-cooked yolk . Broken / Lightly Scrambled -- Broken in pan and gently stirred while cooking - yolk and whites should not be mixed entirely . Scrambled Eggs -- Made in many different ways . Generally the eggs are mixed in a bowl before being put into the pan , and often stirred while cooking . Some recipes add fat to the eggs in the form of milk , cream , butter , or oil . A distinction can be made between Wet/Loose or Dry , which refers to the degree of doneness . Omelettes : Filled Omelette -- Eggs mixed before cooking , possibly with added fat as in Scrambled Eggs . Cooked in fat in a saute pan ; when set but the interior still wet , previously-cooked fillings ( cheese , onions , mushrooms , peppers , tomatoes ... ) are added , and the eggs folded over into a half-moon shape . Spanish Omelette / Western Omelette -- Same as filled , but the egg mixture is poured over the fillings in a hot pan and cooked , thus incorporating the fillings into the egg . Fluffy Omelette -- Whites and yolks beaten separately . Yolks are gently folded into the whites without breaking the structure of the whites . Optional toppings are added . Cooked slowly in a pan , or baked ( an electric frying pan with a lid works well for this preparation ) . Boiled : Cooked in shell in water for a timed period . Some people will refer to degree of doneness by cooking time , i.e. , a " 3-minute egg " is soft-boiled with some runny white around the yolk . Some recipes call for eggs to be added to boiling water , others to be started in cold water . In the cold-water start , the pot may be left on the heat or removed when the water reaches a boil . The eggs may be shocked in ice water when removed . Soft -- Yolk runny , potentially with slight unset white around the yolk . Medium -- White completely set , yolk firm but with a dark , wet appearance . Hard -- Yolk completely set and pale yellow . Poached : Egg cooked , out of shell , in water , stock , or other liquid -- excluding fats or oils -- at a temperature in the range of 160-180 ˚F ( 70-82 ˚C ) . There are possible degrees of doneness , however the typical poached egg has a runny but warm and thickened yolk and fully-set white . Coddled : An egg that has been very lightly cooked ( poached eggs are sometimes considered coddled ) . This can either be accomplished with an egg coddler or cooking an egg in its shell with water that is slightly below boiling point . Shirred : An egg cooked in an oven at the low-mid 300 's ˚F ( ~ 160 ˚C ) , contained in a ramekin , until the whites are just set and the yolk is runny but thickened . Often butter or another fat is placed on top before cooking . Steamed : Very similar to shirred eggs , but the ramekin is covered with some aluminum foil and put in a steamer for 7-15 minutes . In a basket : Eggs fried in a hole made in a slice of bread
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
Heston Blumenthal has brought his unique scientific approach to bear on this recently . The main pointers for a perfect poached egg are as follows : The egg must be fresh . A fresh egg has a thicker , more gel-like albumen . As it gets older , this becomes watery , and so just disperses throughout the water when you add it . To test if your egg is fresh , place it in a jug of cold water . If it floats , it 's not fresh - the egg has had time to absorb air through its shell . A fresh egg sinks and stays sunk . The water temperature should be 80ºC / 176ºF exactly . You can measure this with a sugar or probe thermometer . The egg should be at room temperature . The egg should not come into contact with direct heat , so put a plate or small bowl on the bottom of the pan , bottom up . Once the water ( in a medium to large saucepan ) is up to temperature , carefully add the fresh egg and cook for 4 minutes exactly ( for a large egg of the domestic chicken , Gallus gallus domesticus ) . Drain and serve - the white should be set but not rubbery ( a drawback of using vinegar ) and the yolk should be creamy and rich .
This is caused by overcooking the egg . The green color is a result of overheating causing the iron and sulfur compounds in the egg to express . You can prevent it by gently boiling the egg , and plunging it into an ice bath when it is done . This stops the carry-over heat from continuing to cook the egg .
There are lots of recipes for oven - " fried " sweet potato chips ( crisps ) and fries ( chips ) and I 'll let you search that part . I 've noticed a wide variation in recommended oven temperatures , from as low as 350 to as high as 450 . Though I 've never had great success with crispiness , my overall best results were with a temp of 425 . Crispiness with sweet potatoes is notoriously difficult due to the high water and sugar content ( which will caramelize and make them appear and to some extent taste burnt , usually long before they crisp up ) . There 's some discussion of this on <URL> . Key points seem to be : remove as much surface moisture as possible prior to cooking avoid overcrowding the pans , especially when cooking thicker cuts use a convection oven if possible If you have success please report back and tell us what worked !
SAFETY should be your primary concern in all cooking methods . The danger inherent in cutting dense , hard , ROUND foods is that they tend to roll or shift when pressure is applied , thus allowing hand or fingers to suddenly slip under/against the cutting edge . One key to safety is STABILITY . Hasty chopping , hacking , swinging , or stabbing motions are dangerous -- especially if you ca n't be sure the food will stay put . Firm , controlled movement upon a stable surface is the safe way . Placing the squash on a nest fashioned from a tightly-wadded or rolled , clean kitchen towel is a good way to achieve stability . It is also important to work with a very sharp knife that has a rather thick blade . This acts like a wedge acts in wood-splitting . The knife should also be several inches longer than the diameter of the widest place on the squash , to allow for gripping both ends of the blade during the final cut through . Place the squash on your towel nest , use another kitchen towel , folded , as a sort of mitt . This " mitt " should be thin enough that you can grasp firmly with it . ( 100 % cotton towelling usually grips better . ) Using your mitt , grip the wider end of the squash ; insert the tip of the knife into one of the longitudinal ridges , with the cutting edge away from that mitted hand , until the knife has nearly come out the opposite side , lodging in the flesh of the squash on the opposite side . Then , lever the knife edge down in a motion that uses the lodged knife-point as a fulcrum . ( Think of the motion of a paper-cutter . ) Flip the squash over , repeating this , until the pointed end is cut all the way through . Up-end the squash , placing it on its stem end in the towel nest . Check for stability . Place your knife into the slit , perpendicular to the axis of the squash . Use your gripping towel to pad the non-cutting side of the knife , then press down until the squash is cleaved through .
The oven in a standard 20 " kitchen stove will accommodate a bird even as large as 20 lbs ( 9 kg ) . The very detailed chart <URL> , the pertinent details of which are replicated in the chart below , establish the standard dimensions of such an oven as 18 X 16 X 14.5 inches ( 46 x 41 x 37 cm ) . In their downloadable Thanksgiving pdf , for a turkey as large as 20 lbs ( 9 kg ) Williams-Sonoma <URL> a 16 X 13 X 3 inch ( 40 x 33 x 7.5 cm ) roasting pan . A pan of this sort is available with a rack which rises just above the bottom of the pan , as <URL> and pictured below . This kind of pan keeps height requirements down to roughly the height of the bird plus 3 " ( 7.5 cm ) above the bird , plus the standard 2.5 " ( 6.5 cm ) below the bottom rack . With 14.5 " ( 37 cm ) worth of oven height to work with and about a half inch space between the bird and the pan , that still leaves room for a bird 8 " ( 20 cm ) tall . ( We wo n't expect the bird to be half as tall as the pan is long . ) Meanwhile , an 18 " ( 46 cm ) oven depth accommodates a 16 " ( 41 cm ) long pan , and a 16 " ( 41 cm ) oven width a 13 " ( 33 cm ) pan width . Also , as seen <URL> and below , the pan 's handles fold down . Now , none of this is to say that there 's anything the slightest bit convenient about roasting so large a bird in so small a space . But it can be done . It should just be done with every whit of safety in mind .
春卷 ( Chūnjuǎn , Spring rolls ) are julienned vegetables , sometimes with a bit of noodles , sometimes with a bit of minced meat , wrapped with a flour dough skin and pan - or deep-fried . They are a filled roll . You can see the different varieties by country here : <URL> Spring roll : 鸡蛋卷 ( Jīdàn juǎn , Egg rolls ) are many different things around the world . In Chinese communities , these typically refer to a sweet biscuit type roll , of hollow flaky egg pastry ( not filled . ) However , there is also another variety ( common in American Chinese cuisine ) where a flour dough wrap is filled with " pork , shrimp , or chicken , adding cabbage , carrots , bean sprouts and other vegetables , and then deep fried . " In the American Chinese respect , I believe it is very similar to a Spring roll really , although the flour dough looks thicker and of a different composition than a typical Spring roll ( the dough bubbles when deep-fried , with Spring roll skin it does not . ) <URL> Sweet egg roll : American Chinese egg roll :
Vinegar would n't be harmful . The resulting reaction would create a ferrous salt which would be easily washed away . However , it was probably the vinegar and other acids in your food that cause the rust in the first place . Steel items stored in a acidic environment rust faster than those in plain water . Washing and storing dry is the best way to prevent rust .
I wonder where you have read it . Your link does n't help , maybe you linked the wrong question ? It talks about using a stainless pan with oil . If you are talking about true saute ( very quick movement of bite-sized pieces of food on a very hot pan ) , it is completely impossible without oil . If you are misusing the term to mean shallow frying , you can do it without oil in a coated pan , if you take care not to overheat to the point of damaging the coating . Stainless steel pans have to always be used with oil or other fats , else they will stick . The taste of food browned without fat ( in a coated pan ) will also be different from that of food browned in fat , because fat is needed for important flavor-producing reactions . It is up to you if you like the different taste or not . You can braise food in a broth , meaning that you put a small amount of broth in the pan , add the food and wait for it to cook through . This works with stainless steel pans too . But this is not comparable to either sauteeing or shallow frying . The temperature does not exceed 100 Celsius , which is way too low for Maillard and other flavor-developing reactions . So , if your recipe calls for sauteeing , browning , grilling or frying the food , you can not use this method as a substitute . In summary , you seem to have been misinformed . This is not possible , frying always requires oil , and browning without oil requires a PTFE coated pan ( or a fresh ceramic coated one - they tend to lose their antistick properties with time ) . Update You can sweat vegetables without oil , as mentioned in the corrected link . This is very different from both the true sauteeing you will find in textbooks and the quick browning usually meant in recipes which call to start with sauteing the ingredients . The result are softened vegetable pieces suitable for e.g. stir frying or mixing into chunky sauces . If you are going to make a soup or stew , do n't bother using it instead of browning , as it does n't add flavor and a soup does n't mind the vegetables weeping into it . For other applications , you can try it and decide if the taste is good enough for your purposes . The process is simple . Cut your vegetables finely ( in the 4-7 mm range ) . Pour 3-5 mm of water into the pan and add a level layer of vegetables , up to 1.5 cm thick . Turn on the stove on slow to medium heat and leave them largely undisturbed . Wait until they are done - they will have softened and lost some moisture . As you are not using oil , you have to watch the food closely , because if all the liquid evaporates , the food will heat enough to stick and scorch . But do n't stir much , because the vegetables need time in contact with the pan/broth to heat through , not to get a new side exposed to the heat each second . You could do it with constant stirring , this is the risotto method , but you will end up with preparation times similar to risotto ( > 40 min ) while waiting for the vegetables to heat through despite the stir . So it takes a little experience to know when the bottom of the vegetables is done but the liquid is not yet evaporated , without stirring to take a look at what is happening on the bottom . In the end , it is up to you to decide if you really want to bother . You get a higher probability of failure ( risk of scorching it ) , higher effort ( the need to watch it closely ) and less taste . If you feel that the fat reduction makes up for it , do it .
After much experimentation , I have found that the keys to avoiding the off-white foam/scum are : Use eggs that are as fresh as possible , as this greatly reduces the amount of scum . Use white vinegar instead of malt vinegar , as this avoids discolouring the scum , which makes it more visible .
Freshly grated horseradish is going to lose some of its potency within minutes , let alone a few hours . Isothiocyanate , the hot chemical in horseradish , wasabi and mustard , aerosolizes extremely rapidly , which is why your eyes water just standing over it . So you ca n't preserve all of its potency . The best way to maximize potency while storing it for a day is to make sure it has as little contact with air as possible , and to refrigerate it . Vacumm-packing will do this , as well as simply finding a very small container you can fill to the top with grated horseradish and then seal . If you have access to argon or other neutral gas wine oxidation preventors , then it might be interesting to experiment with them . If you were storing it for a longer period , I would recommend vacuum-packing and freezing , but not for just a day .
I think it is mostly for the taste . It certainly is n't necessary - I roast beets without any vinegar all the time , and they turn out great . I just roast them in their skins , without any oil or anything added . It takes a long time , over an hour depending on how big they are . When they are completely tender , let 'em cool , and the jacket slips right off . Roasting intensifies the flavor by caramelizing some of the sugars and removing moisture . You can always season with vinegar after roasting , depending on what you plan to do with them .
Worcestershire sauce is fairly sweet , it 's the sugar that 's blackening . There 's nothing you can do about it - if you add it to your pan it 's going to char . The solution is not to put it in the pan , but put it on afterwards or mix it in with the meat before making patties . You 'll get a better result that way as well , you 're destroying the flavor of the worcestershire sauce by charring it in the pan like that .
end question
start question
Defrosting pizza dough correctly ?
Since my pizza dough recipe makes three 12 " pies and I usually make two at a time , I regularly freeze extras just as you did . To thaw , I have used both the countertop and refrigerator method . Thawing on the countertop produced the best results . The dough rolled as usual and the crust ( a thin one ) was crispy on the outside and chewy on the inside after baking .
Your proposed method is possibly dangerous , you 'd be warming it enough for botulism to thrive , but not enough to kill it . When you cook it , cook it properly and all at once . What I 'd suggest is simply cooking it on Friday , then re-heating it saturday , or getting up early enough to cook it through on Saturday . As for when to thaw it if it 's a truly heroic size I 'd thaw it in the fridge starting 48 hours before you want to cook it . As for how long I 'd usually do 20 minutes per pound plus 20 minutes as long as the meat is room temperature to start with , so for 7.5 lbs , so that 's near enough 3 hours as makes little difference . Not that long really , if you wanted to serve at 1pm you 'd want to get it out of the fridge as early in the day as you can , get the oven on at 8:40 on 350F ( 375 F on a conventional oven ) , get the meat in at 9 , roast till 12 , then rest it for an hour . Crank the oven up to max for the last 20 minutes to get the crackling extra crispy .
Cookbooks describe the state as " smooth and elastic " I think this is a reasonable description . When the dough is first mixed it is very wet and sticky . As it is mixed you can see a lot of clumps and heterogeneous textures . As the proteins in the flour mix with water they form gluten and the kneading folds the elastic gluten over itself again and again making sheets . The dough becomes less sticky and wet and more springy . The texture becomes completely homogeneous . Kneading by hand it is impossible to over knead this type of dough . I have read that it is possible to over knead in a machine . In this case , supposedly , the protein sheets eventually rip up enough that you lost what you created and the dough reverts . I have kneaded in a machine for a long time and never personally seen this effect .
Bread hydration varies widely . The " standard " bread using all-purpose ( plain ) flour has a ratio of water to flour weight ( hydration ) 60-65 % . Flour with a higher protein level , labelled as bread , strong , or high-gluten , tend to use 65 % hydration . Ciabatta and rustic breads generally use more water than normal . The extra water gives them more large , uneven holes in the interior of the bread ( called the crumb ) , and generally leads to a higher-rising bread . These wetter doughs are often referred to as " slack " doughs in baker 's parlance . Here are a couple sample hydrations from Hammelman 's bread baking : Baguettes with poolish , 66 % hydration , all bread flour Ciabatta , 73 % hydration , all bread flour Pain Rustique ( rustic bread ) , 69 % hydration , all bread flour Country Bread , 68 % hydration , all bread flour Roasted Potato bread , 61 % hydration , 85 % bread flour / 15 % whole wheat flour / 25 % roasted potatoes Whole wheat bread , 68 % hydration , 50/50 whole wheat and bread flour Semolina ( Durum ) bread , 62 % hydration , 50/50 durum and bread flours Mind you , it is quite possible to make a bread with even higher water content , if one is a skilled baker . Wetter breads ( 70 % hydration and up ) generally can not be hand-kneaded normally , and require a mechanical mixer , stretch-and-fold kneading with a spatula , or autolysis . Autolysis is when you mix water and flour before adding yeast , and then allow it to sit . This allows enzymes in the flour to develop gluten before the rising begins , and can supplement or replace normal kneading . Another approach , called double-hydration , is to add only part of the water before kneading . This allows you to knead the bread to develop gluten structure before it becomes too wet to knead . For extremely wet breads , these methods may all be combined . I 'm looking right now at a double-hydration , mechanically mixed , autolyzed , poolish-using ciabatta recipe that sits at 76 % hydration .
The best seems to be a 1:1 ratio of normal wheat-based flour and rice flour - <URL> . First the wheat flour sticks to the dough and creates a nice smooth surface . Then the rice flour ( which does n't adsorb very quickly ) creates small ' rollers ' that keep the dough from dragging , like ball bearings . This is similar to semonlina or cornmeal for working with pizza . A key part of the technique to a banneton is to sprinkle and rub some flour mix on the surface of the dough first , then sprinkle some flour mix in the basket , then put it seem side up in the basket . No sticking . This same mix and similar technique works wonders for using a peel as well .
Two hours is on the borderline , so you will have to assess your risk tolerance . No harm will come to your cookies by refrigerating the dough ; in fact , the later trays may actually be superior due to the additional time hydrating the starches . Baking cold dough will only trivially change the baking time . I would probably err on the side of caution and put the dough in the refrigerator . One thing that can speed up your tray recycle time is to cool the tray with running water on the back side , so that you can reuse it right away without waiting for it to cool . You can also pre-scoop cookies onto a plate , which makes moving them on to the tray much faster . You can even refrigerate or freeze these pre-scooped cookies .
Do n't think of that as dough . This looks like basically making a quiche base to put pizza toppings on . I do n't see any reason to think this recipe wo n't be stable but it wo n't be anything like pizza crust . Still it sounds tasty .
Yeast action is only one factor in getting a rise when baking . Yeast metabolizes sugars and produces CO2 bubbles which puff up your dough , and also help with gluten development to make your dough stretchy . However , when you bake your dough much of the lift you get is from the expansion of water turning into steam - this is what makes pizza dough puff up a bit when baked and gives you that texture . Water is also important in gluten development when your dough is proofing , without enough water you wo n't get an elastic dough with good crumb . My thinking is that your dough is too dry , so add more water to your dough . Stick to the amounts of flour and water in a trusted recipe and knead with oil instead of flour . After kneading your dough should be fairly loose and just a bit sticky , and you should be able to stretch it quite a bit without breaking . Regarding oven temperatures you do n't need the fires of hades to make a good pizza - the most important things for a good pizza is a good base , sauce , and quality ingredients . Crank your oven up as high as it will go and use a pizza stone ( make sure to heat it up for at least 30 minutes ) and you 'll get a good result .
If you make the base neutral - a typical Neopolitan dough would do - you could use white chocolate shavings to give an appearance of cheese as well . I would keep the amount light . While looking to verify this idea , I found a <URL> that gave me a few more pieces of inspiration . Instead of carmelized sugar banana slices , try dried fruits ( strawberries , sweetened cranberries , raspberries , etc. ) for your toppings . These will look like sausage bits or pepperoni . You can also use pineapple and make it look like a Hawaiian pizza . You could also use <URL> as a white sauce or as some of your cheese for a richness that is not too sweet .
A difference I see between your recipe and other alternatives is that you do n't have any other starch besides your rice . Other recipes include a good amount of tapioca or potato starch . The other difference was that other recipes used rice flour instead of rice . You might also want to consider a change in technique . You can make rice noodles like a crepe rather than in an oiled steamer pan . Simply use a non-stick or oiled crepe pan , put in batter to crepe thickness , and let it cook until it begins to pull away from the edge of the pan . Invert and release in one motion onto a cutting board and slice .
In most wheat-based recipes , gluten strands are formed while you work the dough . If you do n't rest the dough , rolling can be more difficult and you may get a tougher texture in the final product . Additionally , refrigerating the dough up to a certain point will firm up the fats in the recipe ( butter , etc ) , which will make the dough less mushy and will making rolling out the dough evenly a bit easier . Unless the dough is so firm it becomes brittle , refrigeration will make the dough less fragile in most cases . Perhaps less important , the moisture levels may become a bit more consistent throughout the dough as well .
I 'd do one or more of a few things : Treat it like the dough in <URL> , in which you sprinkle flour on top , then pull off a portion you need , then shape quickly into a ball , developing the outer skin , keeping the freshly floured side out . Chill down the dough , so it 's firmer and easier to work with . ( and then do # 1 while it 's still a bit cold ) Put it into muffin pans or similar for baking , so you do n't have to worry about it holding up on its own or even attempting to shape it . ( if you can shape it a little bit , you can then put it into a pan with enough of a lip to give them some support as they rise ; they might spread into each other , but you can typically break them apart after they 're baked ) In general , I find that kneading dough in a mixer ( unless specifically called for in a recipes ) always needs more flour . Basically , when you 're kneading normally , you might work in 1/2 cup or so of extra flour . And there are the issues with knowing what the proper way to <URL> if the measurements are given in volume ( cups ) and not by weight , which will easily throw off any bread recipe .
White pizza sauce is n't nearly as defined as red sauce . It 's largely whatever you want it to be . It 's literally any sauce you top a pizza with that is white . It is often dairy based ( cream or cheese added ) , but it could also be a thin parsnip puree . It may contain herbs , it may contain butter , its up to you . Again , thickness is up to you and whatever works for your dish .
The crumbly texture is , apparently , quite common when working with an all buckwheat dough since it does n't develop gluten - one of the reasons why many home-made soba noodle recipes use a percentage of wheat flour to make the dough easier to work with . If you have your heart set on a buckwheat-only soba noodle , be aware this is a common problem . You might try boiling water and rolling and cutting a little thicker so they do n't end up so fragile , mentioned below . I also saw that the <URL> may be important ( using a Japanese style , rather than American style buckwheat flour , apparently makes a big difference ) . Check that the flour type is correct , that may help . Another recipe I saw " <URL> " the flour ( making a dough with water and a bit of lemon juice , and letting sit under a wet cloth overnight ) to give the dough time to hydrate the flour . I 'm not sure whether the lemon juice or the extra long resting time was the relevant factor , but she does n't seem to have problems with the dough . And the last suggestion I found involved " beating the buckwheat " , that is , mechanically working the dough long enough for the water-soluble parts of the flour to dissolve into the dough and let it become elastic that way ( this extra working may be related to the extra-hydrating time of the last hint , or perhaps actual , mechanical <URL> might be helpful in working the dough - it is used in some kinds of recipes to make dough behave ) . From an article I found , <URL> : Not only does a dough of 100 % buckwheat flour tend to crumble and break while you work it , but it also dries out incredibly quickly and the resulting noodles are very fragile . Glenn Roberts of Anson Mills recommends using boiling water when making soba with 100 % buckwheat to gelatinize the buckwheat starches and help the dough hold together . Roll the dough a bit thicker than recommended in the recipe below , and once made , cook and eat the noodles immediately before they dry out .
The best recommendation I have seen is plain plastic wrap . If you have an oil mister , mist the wrap before using it . If you do n't , pour oil into a bowl , enough to form a puddle , and toss your ball of dough in the oil . Then transfer your dough to the rising container ( if you use the same bowl you used for oiling , take the dough out , pour out the superfluous oil , return the dough into the bowl ) . In the best case , the bowl will be deep enough for the dough to rise without the middle touching the wrap , but if it rises more ( even with the dough pressing against the wrap ) , dough with enough gluten development will peel off the oiled wrap with minimal losses , even if it is wet . The wrap will keep your dough surface moist in both the fridge and outside . It does n't allow breathing , but this should n't be a concern in most cases . If you overyeast the dough , the collection of fermentation byproducts in the bowl will probably make for worse taste than if they are allowed to dissipate , but the correct solution for this problem is to not produce them in the first place . With your " very long times " , this is probably not a problem in your case . You can also use this method for the secondary fermentation . But in the final proofing stage , you have to make sure that your dough never rises enough to touch the wrap , or else the loaf will deform while you are removing the wrap . Also , if you are proofing in banettons , do n't oil them , use flour combinations to prevent sticking . If you are out of plastic wrap , substituting alu wrap is a bad idea , because yeast is very sensitive to metallic ions . Today 's non-reactive metal utensils are safe enough for use with yeast dough , but untreated aluminium can be problematic . Try baking paper instead ( you may have to tape it to the outer bowl walls ) .
Circular bed of sticky sushi rice , topped with a drizzle of spicy mayo as the sauce and chunks of sashimi . cut into pizza slices .
Allowing dough to rise twice results in a finer gluten structure than allowing it to rise once . It results in a smaller crumb and prevents huge gaping airholes in your bread . The reason that you have to let it re-rise is that you just pushed all the air out with the kneading you did developing that gluten structure .
For very high hydration loaves , you want to create your gluten development without adding an excess of flour which would reduce the relative hydration . <URL> shows the classic stretch , slap and fold method , using a 70 % hydration dough . Basically , you lift the entire dough from the work surface , allow it to stretch under its own weight , then slam it down again . Rinse and repeat . A somewhat less labor instensive method is described at <URL> ( the article has a lot of introductory material , keep reading and there are really clear instructions with lots of photos ) : Initially stir the dough together until it is is a thick and cohesive liquid , which the author describes as " like porridge . " Use the stretch and fold method of kneading to create some development : Flour your work surface moderately Pour the dough out onto the surface Use your bench knife knife ( also called a dough scraper ) to lift and drop the dough back on itself , stretching it . Images from the Fresh Loaf Allow the dough to rest and autolyse , that is , develop gluten from the reaction of the water and precursor proteins in the presence of enzymes naturally in the flour . This limits the amount of hand kneading you have to do . Repeat the stretch and fold method a couple of times to get the final development Finally , note that very wet doughs can also be kneaded entirely in a stand mixer simply by beating them for a couple of minutes . These doughs are wet enough to be nearly pourable , and do not climb and clump onto the paddle ; if they do , the hydration is not high enough for this method , and you need to use the dough hook instead .
The easiest method , and most common in a commercial setting , would be to add a small amount of yeast in addition to the sourdough starter . You will probably have to reformulate a bit , as the dough will mature faster leaving the starter less time to develop flavor . This is usually overcome by also increasing the proportion of starter ( and adjusting the final dough 's hydration based on the hydration of your starter ) . For instance , if your original recipe included 30 % starter ( in baker 's math ) , the faster version might have 40 % starter and .5 % yeast . If you use a liquid starter , you may then cut the water by 5 % or so , and if you use a solid starter no further adjustment may be needed .
You can use buckwheat for pizza dough , but it will not be anything like an actual wheat flour . Buckwheat is n't actually a grain and does n't contain gluten . The gluten is what gives pizza dough it 's chewy texture ( and makes it stretchable when you 're tossing the pie ) . You need to substitute something like xanthum gum to make up for it . If you want to go down this path , google ' gluten free baking ' for advice and directions . On the other hand , buckwheat makes an excellent partial flour substitute in pancakes .
end question
start question
Can I cook Brussels sprouts in a pan ?
You can , but the surface-to-mass ratio means that the outer layers will overcook well before the inside is cooked , so unless you 're interested in that texture , your two main options are : Steam them ( add some liquid , then put a lid on it ) Cut them smaller . ( halve or quarter before you saute ) I tend to halve smaller ones , and quarter larger ones , cutting through the stem each time so they do n't fall completely apart while cooking ( after trimming a little off the stem if it 's showing signs of drying out ) . Then saute 'til the outside has browned a little bit , and hit with salt and whatever spices ( or bacon ... dice up some bacon and render the fat while you cut up the sprouts , then use the fat for cooking the sprouts )
Per the <URL> , frozen chicken should not be cooked in a slow-cooker or a microwave . It can only safely be cooked in the oven or on the stovetop . A similar warning is given for <URL> as well .
Use of a double boiler limits the maximum temperature the food being cooked can reach . The water in the lower part of the double boiler can only reach 100 * C ( 212 * F ) before it boils . The food being cooked , therefore , can only reach a maximum temperature of 100 * C ( 212 * F ) . It ca n't go over that until all the water in the lower pot has boiled off .
Yes , I think you can . The page you link does list the oil as " food grade " , and specifies no added solvents ... so there 's probably nothing dangerous in the jar and it can be safely used for cooking . In general , though , you usually should n't equate cosmetic treatments and edible substances , even if some of the ingredients are the same ( soaps often do this , list all food sounding ingredients until a second glance reveals it , well , soap ) , or even if the base substance is the same but may have undergone different processes ( like coconut oil or cocoa butter ) . If the coconut oil had been processed with some non-food grade solvents or processes , it might be perfectly safe for topical application , and still be quite dangerous to consume . If you are questioning whether a substance might be an ingredient as well as a cosmetic treatment , look up the information , and I mean brand-specific product page , and see if it mentions " food grade " - that means exactly the bit of information you 're looking for , that it is of a high enough quality that it passes the tests they use for product meant to be eaten .
I believe that I have made some of those conflicting comments . It is definitely possible to make an excellent pan gravy with the drippings from a brined turkey . It is also really easy to have the gravy turn out inedibly salty if you are n't careful . Make sure you follow the brining recipe . Do n't have too high a concentration of salt and do n't brine for too long . Rinse off the bird , inside and out , before roasting . I have also read , from reliable sources such as Harold McGee , that gravy is impossible . My own experience would suggest otherwise .
You ' can ' cook it from frozen , knowing that a few things will suffer . First , the outside will be somewhat dried out and over-cooked before it is done in the center , depending on how hot the oven is and the cooking time . That being said , if your Haggis is pre-cooked , it should be OK . You can also ' Hurry up ' the defrosting process by putting it under running water . This can affect texture , depending on what you are defrosting . Finally , you can speed-defrost something by using warm running water , but this carries SOME SERIOUS RISK if you do n't cook it right away . The bacteria will love the warmth and will start to multiply , but I have done this many times when I knew I was using a meat immediately .
I 'm going to take a wild guess at what 's happening , based on what I know of thermodynamics , ( but I could be wrong about the whole thing ) When a cakes and bread bakes , it bakes from the outside ... as it forms a crust , it can no longer rise . ( for yeast breads , this is why we slash the top , so it can get a little extra rise out of it ) With a cake , as the sides set , it 'll continue to rise in the middle , creating a domed top . With a metal tube pan , the heat from the outside of the pan conducts to the middle of the pan , so the middle will set shortly after the outside . ... With the silicone pan , you 've actually got an insulator ... the heat 's not going to conduct to the inside , so it 's going to be able to rise longer than around the inside -- basically , the domed cake , but you 've got something for it to stick to , so it does n't fall back down as it sets . As I do n't think the issue is distribution of the batter , I 'd recommend trying other techniques to reduce the domedness of the cake -- cook it at a lower temperature ( try 25F / 15C lower ) for a longer time . You ca n't remove the problem entirely , but you might be able to reduce it . I 'd also look at the instructions that might 've come with the pan -- it 's possible that they have reommendations on how to deal with the problem . ( and it 's possible that this might not be as significant a problem in convection ovens , but replacing your whole oven for a set of pans is kinda silly )
I 've always cooked it on top of aluminum foil , at 350 ° F ( ~ 175 ° C ) for 20 minutes . Flipping it once at about the half way point . If you prefer crispier , go for 25 minutes .
Worcestershire sauce is fairly sweet , it 's the sugar that 's blackening . There 's nothing you can do about it - if you add it to your pan it 's going to char . The solution is not to put it in the pan , but put it on afterwards or mix it in with the meat before making patties . You 'll get a better result that way as well , you 're destroying the flavor of the worcestershire sauce by charring it in the pan like that .
Just because the recipe calls it an " omelette " does n't make it one . An omelette starts and ends its cooking in a pan . If you finish it in the oven , it becomes a frittata . ( There are a couple of historic differences , but let 's just stick with that . ) If the egg mixture both starts and finishes in the oven it would probably be a crust-less quiche . The benefits of cooking in the oven is the ability to get more even cooking of the eggs to get a more consistent texture throughout .
You 'll want to look for one of two products either <URL> or <URL> . Lait fermenté is a cultured buttermilk . This is homogenized and pasteurized milk which has been cultured with lactic acid bacteria . This is the de facto standard buttermilk in modern times . If you go to an American grocery store and buy buttermilk you are buying cultured buttermilk . Lait ribot is traditional buttermilk . It is the fermented liquid leftover from churning butter . This is not commonly found in the US and other western countries . See also : <URL>
Learning through repertoire is a good way to build standard skills in nearly every discipline . If what you want is to be able to create a variety of good meals then cooking out of books will serve you well . That is n't to say that the book you choose does n't matter , of course it does ! A book full of accurate facts and procedures does not a good teacher make . Choose a cookbook that is so engrossing that you do n't mind reading it like a novel . That 's how I felt reading Bourdain 's Les Halles cookbook and I 'm sure you can find a similarly inspiring work . Understand that this makes you one who can produce recipes , nothing more . I mean this earnestly and non-disparagingly , as being one who can replicate a good recipe time and again is one who has a high level of skill . Still , most who delve into cooking and the culinary arts are rarely satisfied by this state of affairs . One desires to substitute ingredients , build on a base , even invent their own cuisine ! For that , experimentation is the best teacher . You 're going to have to start cooking boldly and failing often to achieve that . There really is no better teacher than making something completely inedible out of $ 50 worth of pork , then adding insult to injury with a fast food dinner . = /
The only way to be completely sure is to contact Foster Farms and ask them what their packaging is made of and whether or not it is a totally airtight seal . Everything else is speculation . There are , however , two data points on which to speculate , both from their <URL> , and this is more broadly applicable to any company that distributes food this way : Can I freeze chicken in its original wrapper ? Yes , the original packaging is fine for freezing up to two months . For longer freezing , over-wrap packages with foil , plastic wrap , freezer paper or plastic bags . Generally something that 's been properly vacuum-sealed will last much longer than that . The above would seem to indicate that it is not completely airtight and may even allow a small amount of moisture to get through . What 's the best method for thawing frozen chicken or turkey ? [ ... ] You can also defrost in your microwave following the manufacturer 's instructions . Remove chicken from the original package , and place on a microwave safe dish to defrost . ( emphasis mine ) This pretty clearly indicates that it is not microwave-safe , and proper vacuum bags that are safe for sous-vide are generally also microwave safe ( even the cheapo FoodSaver products claim that you can boil , steam , or microwave in the bag ) . So I am leaning quite heavily toward no - I do n't think that the original packaging is safe for sous-vide , given the various other statements made by the company . But again , the best way to know for sure is to contact them directly .
You could use just about anything to mix that , a food processor , a mixer , a stand mixer ( just about any attachment ) , even a blender would work in pulses . Freezing it too will work just fine . Just move fast because any of those methods will create heat , and heat will melt butter . As long as your ingredients are mixed and your butter ( margarine ) is n't melted , you 're golden .
Rust , or iron oxide , is not poisonous , unless consumed in large amounts . Thus it is relatively safe to grill on your barbeque . What about the people who get cut by rusty nails and get lockjaw ? That 's not due to the rust , but rather , due to the bacteria on the rust , which is called , <URL> , which is found in the soil , and presumably , the nails have had come in contact with the soil , and so actually contains some of these deadly bacteria , and so , when a wound is made by the sharp object , the sharp object ( nail ) will also infect the wound causing tetanus , or lockjaw . Which is totally irrelevant to your grill , as I assume , it has n't actually come in contact with the soil has it ? So , it 's safe , relatively
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
I would n't trust any store brand to omit seeds entirely ; it 's just not going to be a priority for them . I 'd suggest making your own instead . It 's fairly easy and fast to seed tomatoes using a chinois , and to seed peppers using a knife . And it 'll taste better , too ! BTW , many online medical authorities seem to think that seeds are not actually an issue for diverticulitis ; maybe you should consider a second medical opinion ? <URL> <URL>
I 've never heard of milk being used to season a pan and so I am a little skeptical of it . Pan seasoning is always done with fat that is heated until it polymerizes . This creates a very hard non-stick surface that makes cooking easier and protects the pan from rust . See this question for more about how to season your pan : <URL> See the article linked in one of the answers : <URL> This process , while slightly more labor intensive , produces the best seasonings I 've ever seen .
Deglazing removes caramelized bits ( the " browned " bits ) from the bottom of your pan or skillet after cooking meats or vegetables . It is usually accomplished by putting stock , sauce , wine , or even water ( or really any liquid ) in the pan over heat after the pan has been emptied of whatever was cooked into it and any rendered fat and scraping the browned bits into that sauce with a spatula . The browned bits dissolve into your liquid to create an excellent sauce for whatever you just cooked in the pan .
The answer is almost certainly yes . The almost is because I have n't made pita bread this way - but I have seen chapati made on a skillet , and under the right conditions it will puff up , even into one big pocket - so pan cooking does n't specifically preclude that kind of development . Beyond the need for it to puff up into the pocket , I do n't imagine pan-cooking pita bread is that much different form other kinds of pan-cooked flat-breads . it looks like <URL> is preferred , since it can be heated very hot and has the thermal mass to hold the heat steady while the pitas are cooking - but I honestly expect you can make them with any skillet you have on hand . Stove-top pitas may be a touch drier , slightly <URL> ( and toasty-flavor ) than oven-baked pitas , because they 're in direct contact with the heat , instead of being cooked by radiant heat . You can press the surface gently with a clean towel to <URL> if it is n't forming quickly or fully enough for your tastes .
end question
start question
How to store bread dough in the fridge for proofing ?
Using the refrigerator for the first rise is absolutely easy , but that is not what you are asking about . For a second rise , tweaking your current approach a bit , I suggest : Place yout bread ( s ) on a baking tray or similar or use a well-floured banneton ( basket ) . Find a plastic bag large enough to fit the entire tray or the banneton plus a bit extra room inside . Lightly " blow up " the filled bag and close with a clip , rubber band or similar . You are not creating a " ballon " , just enough to have the bag " float " a bit over the loaf . Another option would be placing a glass , can or similar object next to your loaves to support the foil tent from below . You need not create an air-tight seal , but you want to limit the loss of moisture to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . For a single boule , an inverted bowl can protect the loaf enough , or if you use an appropriately sized Tupperware or similar bowl in lieu of a banneton , just close the lid . A few additional thoughts : For round loaves ( boules ) a banneton or in a pinch , a bowl , helps to keep the loaf in shape . Especially for long proofing times the tension created by shaping the loaf might not be enough to hold over hours , causing the loaf to " flow " sideways . Flour the basket well and do n't worry about excess flour at the bottom ( or top , depending in technique ) of the loaf , simply brush it off after baking . You do n't need to put parchment under the loaf if you transfer them to a pizza stone or pre-heated tray . Do n't try to lift a baguette by hand , use a sword-shaped <URL> or , in a pinch , a cutting board and roll the baguette onto the peel and back onto the pizza stone or second tray . That said , damp paper is n't much of a problem unless it is so wet that it will simply tear . Rolls or other small items are easier to pack into a plastic container - plus they bake quickly in the morning , which may add a bit of convenience ( or allows for a few extra minutes of sleep ) .
You can , in theory , leave it out on the counter for longer to develop the same amount of fermentation . What you wo n't have is a very cold fermentation , which helps to develop the big holes in rustic breads that many people love . Temperature and fermentation are a tricky balance , and you should listen to an expert like the author . Also the overnight fermentation keeps you from needing to do something like a full 9 hours in one sitting . Bikeboy389 made an excellent point in the comments . BBA has absolutely everything you want to know to make its recipes successful in the first part of the book , which Reinhart strongly advises you not to skip . If you want to make excellent bread , you will want to know all that information . Plus , as a amateur or professional baker , you should find it fascinating .
Store cocoa powder in a dark , cool , dry place , sealed against vermin . Dark and cool both slow the process by which volatiles ( i.e. , flavor ) degrade . That said , do n't keep it in the fridge or freezer unless sealed airtight , because both types of chill-chests are relatively humid environments . Humidity promotes mold , even on cocoa . By the way , for future reference : When buying cocoa powder , note the manufacturer 's suggested use-by date . Cocoa powder should last about three years , properly stored . If the use-by date is much less than that , look for another container .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
Anything can spoil eventually , refrigerated or not . Keeping something under a lid and refrigerated restricts the number of airborne colonizers that might get access to it , and the cold temperature means that even if they get there , they will grow much slower than at room temperature . For something to spoil , it needs to be colonized by bacteria or fungus spores , and it needs to contain some nourishment to support their growth , not too much chemicals that prevent their growth , and not too much competing life forms already present . So , things with a high concentration of salt or sugar tend to be unhospitable to bacteria and fungi growth , because they are hygroscopic ( they draw the water out of cells ) . Extreme high or low pH ( eg acidic ) also retards growth . Think of things like ketchup , mustard , jelly with labels that say " refrigerate after opening " but most people ignore them . Alcohol is unfriendly if the concentration is too high , and of course natural fermented foods are already occupied by human-friendly bacteria . Ketchup is sealed in a bottle , usually with no fingers or utensils inserted into it , so it stays pretty sterile . It is also protected by being hygroscopic ( due to high concentration of sugar and salt ) and its acidity . Ketchup as a word and concept is descended from an Indonesian fish sauce , and has been around much longer than refrigeration . I think you can leave it out with no worries unless you see obvious mold growth .
Tomatoes will last longer if kept in the fridge , but I actually recommend against keeping them there . Tomatoes lose much of their flavor when their temperature is brought below 50 degrees F. Keep them in the pantry . They will still last a few days at least , and they 'll taste a lot better .
Sorry , USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage ( 40 ° F ) . Beyond that and you 're tempting fate a bit . You 're gon na have to eat some humble pie for your wife on this one ( just do n't ask here for the recipe ) . <URL>
Make the bread all the way through . You can even let the first rise happen . Drop your yeast to about half . Oil a bowl , drop in the dough , spin once to get the ball of dough covered with the oil and then put plastic wrap over the bowl , or a damp cloth ... and plastic wrap . Put the bowl in the refrigerator . The refrigerator slows down the yeast without killing it , which also increases the flavor of the bread ( over night cool low yeast methods for bread are considered the " right " way to make bread ) . In the morning , pull out the bread , press out any large bubbles , roll it around and let it come to life again . I usually punch it down one more time and then let it rise in the pan or on a sheet depending on what kind of bread I am making , then bake as normal . In your case , because you 're doing a stuffed loaf , assuming there is a rise before the stuffing , THAT is the point where you will start the morning . Everything before the pre-stuff rise , the refrigerator IS the pre-stuff rise , pull it out , let it warm , punch it down , stuff , put in the pan , let rise , bake .
It really depends on what you 're keeping in the fridge . In my Navy days , we basically had areas for different type of products , which were organized differently . What we used to do was more or less this : Vegetables : This is more or less per vegetable , but worked for us . For instance the carton of tomatoes or cucumbers next in line was on a middle shelf , next to all the other vegetables next in line for their type . The other cartons were stored right at the bottom of the rack , basically on the floor . Once a carton was finished a new one was moved up in its place . Peeled vegetables : We occasionally peeled enough potatoes ( or carrots , or onions ) for 2-3 days . In this case , the potatoes were stored in a kind of bin with water . Unpeeled potatoes were in sacks in the back of the fridge . Once the peeled bin was empty , we 'd change the water and peel more potatoes . Meat : Most meat was in the freezer for reasons which are obvious once you 're carrying supplies for more than a few days . However , every afternoon the next day 's meat was moved into the fridge for defrosting . It had it 's own cabinet in the fridge on one side . Dairy : Dairy products usually came in trays for us , and there were never too many of them as we were a 100 person galley . These are generally light enough so that when a new shipment arrives , you can just lift the old things and place the new ones under them . At worst , you take the old stuff out , put the new in , and then put the old back in on top . Prepared dishes : Sometimes we 'd make a coleslaw or something in the morning to serve for lunch . Obviously , it needs to be refrigerated during the wait . These things had their own shelf , and were put there until needed . We 'd only ever have those for the next meal , though , so not much of a queueing issue . Special items : Anything that was particularly special ( rare or expensive ) was kept in a 3foot cubed locked cabinet in the fridge , where prying hands could n't reach . Hopefully , that 's not a concern for you . That 's it . The only other adivce I have is to use big ( gallon , half-gallon ) modular boxes that stack well , if you need to keep a lot of prepared things .
The best seems to be a 1:1 ratio of normal wheat-based flour and rice flour - <URL> . First the wheat flour sticks to the dough and creates a nice smooth surface . Then the rice flour ( which does n't adsorb very quickly ) creates small ' rollers ' that keep the dough from dragging , like ball bearings . This is similar to semonlina or cornmeal for working with pizza . A key part of the technique to a banneton is to sprinkle and rub some flour mix on the surface of the dough first , then sprinkle some flour mix in the basket , then put it seem side up in the basket . No sticking . This same mix and similar technique works wonders for using a peel as well .
To answer my own question , after experiencing , once cooked , the brik stays crisp for over a week .
The best is the <URL> If you ca n't find that flour locally , there are sellers online . I find a mix of bread flour &amp; semolina works very well too . This is my favourite pizza dough recipe : <URL>
Paul , I make my own pasta dough frequently . Since my standard recipe makes around 40oz ( 1 kg ) of dough , I always have leftover , so I 've had plenty of experience with saving it . Even with eggs , pasta dough will be fine in the fridge for a week ; the texture will be unaffected ( if anything , it will be better ) . If you want to keep it longer than a week , it can be frozen for several weeks wrapped tightly in plastic wrap , and more-or-less indefinitely if you vacuum-seal it . Glad to hear about your WWW recipe , I 'll have to try that .
The cheesecake kept for 1 year just fine with no discernible off flavors or other problems . I 'm a homebrewer and we wound up putting the cheesecake into the freezer section of our spare ' beer fridge ' . That freezer is pretty much only used for overflow freezer space , and the refrigerator section is used for beer bottles and kegs , and we have had a few apples in the crispers for most of the year , but that 's it . The freezer section was rarely opened more than once per week . The cheesecake had no off flavors , and only had light water crystallisation on the surface , which was not at all detrimental to our enjoyment of the cake . This was a plain ' real ' cooked cheesecake with graham cracker crust . So , for a ' good enough ' storage method , wrap loosely in foil and store in a freezer that is rarely used , and the cheesecake should be excellent for at least one year .
The reason for doing delayed fermentation in the fridge is that the yeast development is slowed down , while still allowing the enzymes that naturally occur in the flour to do their work ( converting starches to sugars , making a more flavorful dough ) . The risk of doing it on the counter instead of the fridge is that the enzymes are working AND the yeast is working , which can over-leaven the bread , and they 'll eat up the sugars you are trying to create with enzymes . Over-leavened bread is n't ideal , but it is n't the end of the world either . There is a lot to learn about bread baking if you want to really excel at it , but " just bake it , it 'll be fine " is always present as you experiment - glad the loaf turned out well ! " No-Knead " bread is a great introduction to " rustic " doughs ( very high water content ) , and to cold fermentation . Cold fermentation is about the best thing you can do for your bread as a home baker , whether or not you are using the no-knead recipe - I cold ferment nearly everything I bake . If you want to learn more about the process and jump off the deep end , Peter Reinhart 's book " The Bread Baker 's Apprentice " is a great place to start . It is detailed without being pedantic , simple without being over-simplified , and oriented for the home baker without forgetting the reasons that professionals do things the way they do .
I would keep the one that you are eating the next day out . I would then freeze the rest of them . If you like them warm , you could freeze them wrapped in foil . Before eating pop them in a toaster oven until gently warmed through . If not I 'd freeze individually until solid then put in a bag to prevent your frozen bagels from sticking together , then thaw overnight ( if eating in the morning ) or in the morning ( if eating for a mid-day meal ) to eat .
If it 's raw , stick with the best-before date on the label . If cooked , you have at least <URL> , regardless of whether it 's pork , veal , or regular beef .
You can also preserve herbs by wrapping them in damp paper towels ( either completely or just around the stems ) and then placing the bundle in an open plastic bag ( or one with holes poked in ) Replace or re-wet the towels when they get dry . It 's the equivalent of a vase without the worry about it spilling .
Your metal bowl sitting in your 70 ° F room is 70 ° F ( at least , if its been sitting there for a bit ) . Your plastic bowl , or glass bowl , or ceramic bowl , or any other bowl sitting in the same room is also 70 ° F. They 're all actually the same temperature . Now , given , when you touch the metal bowl , it feels cooler than the plastic one . This is because your finger is n't 70 ° F , and your body heat is transferred away quicker by metal than ( say ) plastic . If the dough is room temperature , it wo n't matter -- heat is n't flowing out of it . The dough itself does n't generate much heat . If your dough started above room temperature , it will cool a little quicker in a metal bowl . But , if you wanted to keep it from cooling , putting it in a warm place is much more effective . A stainless steel bowl is fine . I 'd avoid aluminum ( and copper , if anyone makes a mixer with such a thing ) due to them being reactive , especially if you 're making sourdough .
I mix dough in my kitchenAide all the time , and this happens all the time , so through the process I check the consistency and dryness and I 've developed a feel for the " just right formula " , but being ADHD I do n't go in with precise measurements each time , but that would be a good idea once perfection is found . So anywho , I take a strong spatula from time to time and cut it of the hook , to give it a nice restart with hook on outside of dough ball . but your dough needs to be dry enough that it is cleaning itself off the bowl and it will the hook too . It 's designed to find that perfect balance so that it starts wet and sticky and then as the gluten starts to web it becomes self cleaning , and the kneading is drying it a little or maybe the material is absorbing the liquid , either way it goes from dry to wet . Another thing I do if the hook is wrapped in dough instead of working against the sides , I briefly turn up the speed and that will throw the dough to the sides and sometimes clean it .
end question
start question
Utensil materials - plastic , metal or wooden ?
Metal Advantages : durable , no risk of absorbing flavours Disadvantages : may scratch certain cookware Wood Advantages : does n't scratch , looks nice Disadvantages : can wear down over time , can sometimes absorb flavours Plastic Does n't find a place in my kitchen other than a rubber spatula for baking . Silicone You did n't mention this , but I like it , because it works like rubber but can withstand high temps ( brushes , spatulas ) I think the answer really depends on what you cook . If you have a basic set ( wooden spoon , spatula that can handle heat , good ladle , chopsticks ) , you can make do without the rest as you start . You 'll quickly learn what you wish you had to make it a little easier .
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
The answer to the question is " Chap Zai " . The name for Chinese Crispy Roast Pork is " sio bak " by the way talon8 - I bought a tenderizer from Amazon exactly like the one you posted but the pins were not sharp enough to make the required number of tiny holes - and therefore the skin on the pork belly did not get that crystalised look where the fat has flowed out through the skin . My best result was by using a sharp knife but this took a long time . Anyway - long story short , I got this by emailing a number of Chinese supermarkets ( was never listed on their website shops ) and they told me the name . Would be good if anyone can verify this name ...
I look for notes that give subsitutions . If the recipe creator ca n't be arsed to either provide subs or say " you really ca n't substitute , " then it seems to me they are n't so much interested in cooking as they are in must provide dogmatic formula . This does n't work for me . Notes along the way -- " you are looking for a texture like ... " " the colour should be ... but do n't worry if it looks like ... " -- are essential . A complete lack of " Oh by the way you should have done X an hour before you did Y " is non-negotiable . Anytime I cook through a recipe like that without reading first ( caveat emptor , I know ) I tend to end up swearing and throwing things . Timelines are key . ( By the way , I 'll be hanging onto this thread as it will definitely help me with the cookbook project I 'm working on . Thanks for asking ! )
The wrap used in most grocery stores is n't the same as your household wrap . Most of the consumer brands of plastic " cling " wrap are now formulated from low-density polyethylene . It 's rolled very thin to give you the best price per unit of length , and has reasonable stickyness . Most stores use a product called " meat film " which is most commonly made from PVC . It 's a little thicker , more wrinkle-resistant to give the product contained inside a better appearance , and it 's stickier . The other thing that grocery stores do to make the seal better is they use a heat sealer on the plastic . These are heated pads where they 'll place a wrapped piece of plastic for a few seconds . It 's not enough heat to melt the plastic , so in most cases you can still pull it apart , but it is just enough to shrink the joint together , and pull it taut across the front of the packaging .
You could do both . Fresh , you already know . If it is smoked , sautee in a little oil , then remove . The oil took on the flavor , so then you can add back the sausage at the end .
Up to a point , the more you can knead your dough the finer the texture of the bread . It is theoretically possible to knead to the point where the gluten structure falls apart . I 've read that while it is unlikely when kneading by hand , it is easy to do with a machine mixer ( it 's never happened to me ) . However , the pita bread I 've eaten was n't anything like regular bread in hole structure so I do n't see the benefit of extra kneading ( both before and after ) . A problem with kneading after a rise is that most of the gas formed is pressed out , and if there is n't enough food ( sugar ) left for the yeast , the final rise wo n't be good . Again , for pita bread this does n't seem like an issue . Maybe the pita bread flat structure is actually helped by kneading a lot of the gas out after rising .
By your description I would say it 's taro or 芋头 ( yu tao ) in chinese <URL> It can be bought in most chinese supermarkets For more info <URL>
Mold grows best in warm , moist conditions . It 's a fungus , not a plant ; light has nothing to do with it . Fresh air does n't really make it grow either , but circulating air does help reduce condensation , depriving mold of moisture . So you really do n't want to seal a breadbox - that 'll just help create a nice moist environment for the mold to grow in . Breadboxes are really just about keeping other pests away from your bread , while still being able to keep it at room temperature . ( It goes stale faster in the fridge . ) If you 're worried about mold growth , you probably just want to freeze some of the bread .
A <URL> perhaps ? I 've no luck finding the term for your specific description , but that seems to be an umbrella term for utensils that basically hold something so you can more easily grill it .
Flat-leaf ( also called Italian Parsley ) and curly parsley can be used interchangeably but most chefs prefer flat leaf as it usually has a more distinct taste . That is going to be up to you and your preference . Curly parsley provides a more unique and visually interesting look when you 're talking about garnishes but putting a sprig of parsley on a plate is what would be called a " non-functional " garnish . Aside from adding a bit of green it serves no purpose as very few people I know will pop it in their mouth and eat it . You 're better to sprinkle with chopped parsley or herbs that can help enhance/accent the flavor . Curly parsley is also visually appealing used in a parsley salad due again to the ruffled edges . I usually use flat-leaf if available , then curly if flat-leaf is n't available . Under no circumstances ( except if you just need a touch of green dust ) do I recommend using dried parsley . Clippings from the underside of yor lawn-mower probably have more flavor . Same goes for dried chives .
By " it stays longer " do you mean that the egg stays good longer or the membrane/air pocket stays around longer ? I do n't know why you would care about the air pocket so I 'll go with the other . Orientation is not going to noticeably affect egg quality . I do n't use egg cartons . I store my eggs in plastic tubs ( carefully ) . The eggs end up in a random orientation and there is no noticeable difference between any two eggs . I have heard to people storing the eggs differently to center the yolks in preparation for boiling . This is purely a cosmetic thing .
Stone is a much worse heat conductor than iron . It warms much slower from vigorous pounding than iron , and actually cools whatever is being ground . This is often desirable , as you do n't want to warm whatever you are grinding - some spices contain fats which are viscous or solid at room temperature , but get liquid somewhat above it , so they would be seeping their aroma and converting to a paste if warmed while ground . Another argument for stone will be the smooth surface . Seasoned iron is n't as smooth as marble or granite can be polished , and if left unseasoned , you will need to remove rust from time to time ( another problem of iron which harwig already pointed out ) , disturbing the surface . The mortar surface should be as smooth as possible . Also , the stone will require no maintenance apart from washing . Iron will have to be kept from rusting , so you 'll have to season it . The grinding action will probably slowly eat away the seasoning layer , so you 'll have to reapply it periodically , which is lots of work ( well , the complete stripping first is what makes it lots of work , seasoning not so much ) . But if you use your mortar as seldom as I do , this should n't be a problem . On the other hand , iron 's density is about 3 times higher than marble or granite , resulting in a much heavier pestle . While this means some more fatigue for you , it will result in a better grinding result . Another problem with stone is that it can crack if you happen to drop it on the floor . Luckily , a mortar is not easily dislodged from the counter , and granite breaks nowhere as easily as earthenware , but the chance exists . If you get stone , do n't go for the tulip-on-a-stem shapes . While it may be convenient to grip the stem , it is also a weak point . You must also consider possible chemical reactions . Granite wo n't be a problem , but marble is acid sensitive . So making a pesto with lots of lemon juice is probably a bad idea in marble . It wo n't cause a comic-book like Chinese syndrome , but it will attack the surface , making it less smooth . Seasoned iron has some acid resistance , but strong acids are bad for it too . To me , the " tradition " argument is n't very strong . People have used abacuses for thousands of years , but I prefer a TI-42 simulator when I have to make a calculation too complicated for my brain . Both iron and stone will work . And as harwig says , aesthetics are individual - not that I need much of that in kitchen implements .
I too have that Jamie Oliver book ( try the roast beef then make the Rendang , amazing ) , and you are reading the recipe correctly . There is no problem leaving the skin on providing you 've washed all the soil off . In this recipe it adds to the ' zombie brain ' look , but if you cooking something a bit more refined you might want to take it off so it looks better . Also , many celeriac recipes involved mashing it , in which case taking the skin off aids that process .
I posted this question in a hurry ( because as you can imagine ) , there was a lot of anxiety concerning whether it was safe to have dinner or not . It turns out that this ham is not safe ; I will quote the USDA : The plastic bone guard covering the exposed bone is used to keep the bone from breaking the outer wrap . If left on the meat during cooking , a 325 or 350 ° F oven temperature may not melt the plastic but still give off an abnormal chemical odor or taste . Cutting away the meat around the exposed area will not necessarily solve this potential food safety problem because the penetration of the chemical into the meat will be unknown . If meat is cooked in a closed container , the chemicals may penetrate the entire piece of meat . USDA advises not to eat the ham ; discard it . Source : <URL> Quite a disappointment unfortunately .
Metal Advantages : durable , no risk of absorbing flavours Disadvantages : may scratch certain cookware Wood Advantages : does n't scratch , looks nice Disadvantages : can wear down over time , can sometimes absorb flavours Plastic Does n't find a place in my kitchen other than a rubber spatula for baking . Silicone You did n't mention this , but I like it , because it works like rubber but can withstand high temps ( brushes , spatulas ) I think the answer really depends on what you cook . If you have a basic set ( wooden spoon , spatula that can handle heat , good ladle , chopsticks ) , you can make do without the rest as you start . You 'll quickly learn what you wish you had to make it a little easier .
A microwave-safe container should n't be heated significantly by the microwave ( only by conduction from the food it contains ) . So , it should be fine , so long as the food is , and as long as the food does n't exceed its allowable temperature . You can test fairly easily -- put the container , partially filled with some water , in the microwave for a few minutes . Does the container heat up , possibly more so than the water -- especially where its not in contact with the water ? If so , I 'd be reluctant to use it in the microwave for that long . Some containers are microwave safe , but only for heating to maybe 160 ° F or so . A common example is LDPE ( often used for plastic wrap ) . Some ca n't take boiling for more than a short time ( e.g. , HDPE ) . Polypropylene should be fine , even with boiling . Go any hotter ( e.g. , filled with oil , which is probably insane ) and most will fail . If you 're lucky , the container will have a resin ID code on it , LDPE is # 4 , HDPE is # 2 , polypropylene is # 5 . Your microwave may not be fine with 40 minutes of strait microwaving , or with the steam buildup . You should probably check its manual . I assume also you 've read Jay 's comment about converting recipes , and that you 're doing something where 40 minutes wo n't result in charcoal .
Version B runs the risk of overheating the pan and damaging the coatings on it . I 've always been told to put oil in the pan before heating for that reason - nothing to do with taste . I 'd seriously doubt you could detect any difference in taste .
Manufacrurers measure the rim , so I guess the recipe calls for a pan which is 20 cm across the rim . It may seem counterintuitive that the recipe specifies such a small pan ( that 's less than 8 inch for you Americans ) . But it can have good reasons . Most recipes are n't dependent on pan size ( much ) . But if you make a small quantity of some sauces , you want it to be thick enough in the pan to heat evenly , instead of a thin smearing of stuff on the bottom of the pan which will overheat quickly . So if you suspect that this is the case , it makes sense to actually use a small pan . For many other recipes , overcrowding the pan is not too good . If you say what you are trying to make , we could give you an indication whether the size is important in your case .
It is completely a matter of aesthetics , other than the tendency of a metal plate to bring its contents to room temperature more quickly due to its higher thermal conductivity compared to ceramic .
end question
start question
How does ( Goya ) Sofrito sauce compare to salsa ?
Sofrito can be thought of as similar to a mirepoix : a base mixture ( sort of a sauce , but not exactly ) that you use to then cook other things . It has some spice , some acid , but overall it 's something to be added onto , not something to be eaten by itself , just like you would n't eat a dice of carrots , celery , parseley , and onions by themselves either . Salsa , on the other hand , is a finishing sauce in most cases . It 's often chunkier ( Sofrito is not a liquid , but it 's a smooth texture ) , and should have more pow to it - it 's something that is complete by itself ( to be eaten with chips for example ) or is a finishing note on a taco or similar food which perhaps has several bland ingredients combined with one other powerful flavor . Salsa would be inappropriate in dishes where it might compete with the major flavor of that dish , while sofrito would not . That said , it 's possible a less strongly flavored salsa could be substituted for sofrito , if it 's what you have available . Really depends on the dish , though . If I were making a paella for example I probably would n't want to do that unless it was something that I 'd be happy to add the salsa to afterwards . But enchiladas work pretty well with salsas in my experience ( and often recipes just call for salsa instead of starting with a sofrito - > enchilada sauce ) .
There 's no reason to peel besides the aesthetics of it . There 's no major flavor or nutritional difference either way . If the ginger is going to be seen then peel it , if not do n't bother . The best way to peel ginger is to use the edge of a small spoon to rub it off , it works really well , takes seconds , and does n't waste as much as using a knife .
Instant pudding contains a significant amount of cornstarch . It also contains less significant amounts of disodium phosphate and tetrasodium phosphate . All three of these ingredients will have an effect on cake . Starch absorbs water and gels during baking . This interferes with gluten formation to some degree . If you break down the starch in flour , which is , in part , how you make cake flour , the starches are more able to do this job . Cornstarch is nearly all starch . Adding it to your cake will make your flour behave more like cake flour , while increasing your cake 's hydration . The phosphates also affect your cake , but to a lesser degree . Depending on the other ingredients in your cake , they will act as a leavening agent that will help to prevent the addition of all that pudding from making your cake too heavy . Many bakers rely on a secret trick that you might try instead of pudding . They replace two tablespoons of flour in any cake recipe with cornstarch . I do this not only in cakes , but in pie dough .
I 'd say 3 to 5 people , depending on the heaviness of the sauce , the meatiness of the rabbit etc. .
That is simply caramelized sugar that coats the dish before the custard is poured in for baking . As the flan is chilled , the moisture from the custard liquefies the caramelized sugar and results in the sauce . If you 're wanting to make it for other desserts and are n't making flan , then simply caramelize sugar and then add water to it . Be careful as the steam can easily burn you if you 're standing over it . The sugar will seize up and then as it continues to cook the crytallized caramelized sugar will liquefy . You will then have caramelized sugar syrup .
I do n't think anything will be wrong with that milk . If it 's fresh milk , which I doubt , you should consume it in less than three days . If it 's pasteurized milk , which is much more likely , it 'll be unaffected . Signs of spoilage are a sour smell and sour taste . You should make a habit of always smelling your milk ( food ) before drinking ( eating ) it . If it does n't smell like you 'd expect , taste it . If it does n't taste like you 'd expect , ditch it . Milk is cultivated with lactobacillus , a bacteria that 's beneficial for us . So , even though milk may taste sour , it does n't mean that it 's undrinkable . In Holland , there 's sour-milk ( karnemelk ) , that some people consume ( I do n't like it , myself ) . Under the right circumstances , milk will turn into yogurt , thanks to the lactobacillus ... At any rate , if in doubt , throw it out .
I grew up with a Vietnamese mother that used to put fish sauce in nearly everything . While I ca n't exactly recommend all of her uses ( she once used it in a texas beef chili -- was not good ) , there are a few techniques that are good to know . A common method to create a savory sauce is to use fish sauce with sugar at a 2:1 ratio . For example , you can make <URL> by sauteeing fried tofu with diced tomatoes and adding 2tbsp of fish sauce to 1tbsp of sugar . This ratio can also be used in stir-fries . I would make sure to turn on your air vents when doing this -- the smell of fish sauce hitting a hot pan is ... different than what most people are used to . It works as a savory salt alternative in a lot of dishes . I use it to season fried rice instead of using salt or soy sauce . It generally is a good idea to add this during the cooking process , so the liquid can reduce and meld with the food . It can also be used to quick brine ground pork for savory asian dishes . I 'd add somewhere in the vicinity of a tbsp per pound of ground pork . I use this technique when making Thai <URL> . There are probably other marinating/brining applications , but I do n't have much personal experience with that . You can also use fish sauce to create a wide variety of dipping sauces -- in general it is paired with something sweet ( sugar or rice vinegar ) to help balance out the saltiness . It is also commonly watered down ( <URL> ) in vietnamese dipping sauces to keep it from being too overpowering . On a personal note , my favorite use is straight up on crispy fried eggs ( slightly runny yolk ) over white rice . It is n't for everyone , but it 's something I 've been making and enjoying for years .
The usual way is to use a thickener . Some of them require warming , but others do not . Guar or xanthan gum will work if used in the cold sauce . It is the easiest way . If you do n't have them , yuo can use gelatine , but you 'll have to dissolve it in warm liquid first and then add to the cold sauce , then wait to thicken . None of these will change the taste . If you are from the " no additives " fraction , you can just use a thicker dairy product . I do n't think the heavy whipping cream would be a particularly good fit to yogurt . The best choice would be a fermented product thicker than yogurt , e.g. sour cream or creme fraiche . But you can also use a cheese , although this will change the taste ( without making it bad or too different from the original ) . Good choices would be cream cheese , ricotta , quark , tvorog or mascarpone .
Normally , in industry , you combine the butter and flour , and cook it for a bit ( usually gets a nice nutty aroma ) . Then , you heat the milk to a boil , and add some of the milk to the cooked roux ( fat and flour ) . This will be VERY thick . You can easily whisk the lumps out of that . You then add this back into the other milk , which thickens the milk . Also , in industry , there is often just a big pail of roux , and a shortcut is to heat the milk , and then add the roux in a bit at a time , whisking like hell to get out the lumps . You can control the thickness of the sauce better that way . When you have the desired thickness , you then season .
Real Worcestershire sauce has a very long shelf life , many many years Some people even age it , in a dark cellar ! Be warned though , many brands of Worcestershire style sauce are not actually Worcestershire sauce , they are just sugar with flavourings , no sign of rotten fish etc :-( See <URL>
The texture of frozen herbs is going to be totally different after thawing . In my opinion frozen herbs are fine for using in cooking , but they do n't work well as a garnish or as an addition to a dish at the end of cooking . The taste is definitely better than dried , though .
Your question makes me think of demi-glace . From your question , I would say that you 're trying to get a nice shiny thick sauce for your duck , one that tastes of red wine . If that 's your goal , I would recommend you Reduce your stock down until it 's about the total volume of liquid that you 're going to want . The stock reduction should be roughly the consistency you want your final sauce to be . Add an equal volume of wine Reduce down to desired consistency ( so about by half ) . This will give you a lovely sauce , with lots of that sticky goodness that reduced stocks deliver so nicely . You might do this with all of your stock , then freeze cubes of unused sauce for later ; they make a great addition to other bases . Left-over alcohol is not going to be an issue here , by the way , you 'll have long since boiled/simmered it off .
I always reserve a bit of pasta water to add it to the pan . The reason is simple : if you drain your pasta and add it to the sauce the pasta will suck up all the sauce and become a bit dry . Adding the pasta water ensures that your pasta will remain moist . Also yes , it helps thickening the sauce ( this does not necessarily apply to tomato sauce ) . Now , let 's be clear : you DO NOT add your pasta water to the sauce when you are preparing the sauce . You only add it when you put your pasta in the sauce . It also helps if you do n't drain the pasta , just take it out of the boiling water ( using tongs , ofc ) and put it in your sauce while still on the stove . A quick 30-50 secs stir and that 's it . Hope this helps . PS : 1/2 cup seems like a lot to me . For two portions of pasta I usually add around 3 tablespoons .
Short answer : tomato sauce is a <URL> . Another interesting link can be found <URL> . Tomato sauce in an interesting creature . Think about ketchup . You try you shake some out and nothing . So you tap the bottle a little bit , still nothing . Tap it a little harder , and a little harder , and suddenly boom : a flood of ketchup . The " jumpiness " of tomato sauce is caused by the same physics . Basically , tomato sauce has two things in it that contribute to this characteristic : water and tomato pulp . At first , the tomato pulp is just lying around every which way , which makes the sauce act a lot thicker . But when the strands of pulp are aligned , it makes the sauce act a lot more like water . Heating up the sauce increases the pressure on the sauce , allowing areas of the sauce to become much more fluid , resulting in bubbling , popping , and the flinging of tomato sauce all over your clean white shirt . The same effect is what makes ketchup come flying out of the bottle - when you whack it hard enough , the pressure changes the state of the ketchup , and the ketchup literally flows like water . Edit : updated with relevant information Unfortunately , when I managed to get a hold of Mr. Steingarten 's lovely book , <URL> , * I discovered that the passage regarding tomato sauce as a non-Newtonian fluid was exclusively regarding ketchup , and not general tomato sauce as I thought I remembered . However , this description is still a valuable one , and it does help explain this particular characteristic of tomato-based sauces ( after all , ketchup is a tomato based sauce ) [ p 96 ] : It was only after I had send a stream of ketchup streaking across my wife 's favorite tablecloth , a lovely hand-printed Indian cotton from a shop on the rue Jacob , that I telephoned Professor Malcolm Bourne at Cornell for a lesson in non-Newtonian fluids . Sir Isaac Newton wrote the laws governing liquids that flow like water : the more force you exert on them , the faster they flow . But ketchup is different . Composed of tangled red tomato fibers suspended in a sweet and acidic colorless serum , ketchup behaves like a solid both at rest and under low levels of pressure : but then , at some higher threshold , it suddenly begins flowing like an ordinary fluid . That 's why the frustrated ketchup lover who loses patience with gentle taps on the bottle 's bottom and prematurely shifts to a powerful wallop ends up with a gush of ketchup over everything . Ketchup and mayonnaise are known as Bingham fluids , named after the scientist who characterized them early [ last ] century . * Personally , I think that The Man Who Ate Everything is a must-read for anyone interested in culinary science , and a should-read for anyone interested in food . Second Edit : Due to a handful of downvotes that I received while I slept last night , I guess some clarification is needed : I just want to be absolutely clear here , I am in no way implying that . I offer this information as an example of how tomato pulp suspended in liquid acts . The fact that " tomato sauce is thick " does n't really hold up . The question even clearly states : " Of all the sauces and creams I prepare in a hot pot , tomato sauce is the most jumpy " , which presumably includes thick ones . If thickness was the only factor ( and I 'm not saying that it is n't a factor ) , we would see similar actions from cheese sauces , bechamels , gravies , and a variety of soups . While these sauces/soups do splatter , tomato sauce is significantly more " splattery . " Put a pot of tomato sauce next to any other sauce/soup , take your pick , and heat them to the same temperature . I can pretty much guarantee that given similar conditions , you 're going to be wiping up a lot more tomato sauce than the other one . One last edit : <URL> on Slate indicates that it 's a combination of the above ( being a " plastic liquid " ) , the viscosity , and pectin , as pointed out by Brendan in a comment below .
The oven in a standard 20 " kitchen stove will accommodate a bird even as large as 20 lbs ( 9 kg ) . The very detailed chart <URL> , the pertinent details of which are replicated in the chart below , establish the standard dimensions of such an oven as 18 X 16 X 14.5 inches ( 46 x 41 x 37 cm ) . In their downloadable Thanksgiving pdf , for a turkey as large as 20 lbs ( 9 kg ) Williams-Sonoma <URL> a 16 X 13 X 3 inch ( 40 x 33 x 7.5 cm ) roasting pan . A pan of this sort is available with a rack which rises just above the bottom of the pan , as <URL> and pictured below . This kind of pan keeps height requirements down to roughly the height of the bird plus 3 " ( 7.5 cm ) above the bird , plus the standard 2.5 " ( 6.5 cm ) below the bottom rack . With 14.5 " ( 37 cm ) worth of oven height to work with and about a half inch space between the bird and the pan , that still leaves room for a bird 8 " ( 20 cm ) tall . ( We wo n't expect the bird to be half as tall as the pan is long . ) Meanwhile , an 18 " ( 46 cm ) oven depth accommodates a 16 " ( 41 cm ) long pan , and a 16 " ( 41 cm ) oven width a 13 " ( 33 cm ) pan width . Also , as seen <URL> and below , the pan 's handles fold down . Now , none of this is to say that there 's anything the slightest bit convenient about roasting so large a bird in so small a space . But it can be done . It should just be done with every whit of safety in mind .
If , when reducing a sauce , you are getting splashing outside the pot , your pot may be too small for the application . Use a larger pot : a wider base will allow more surface area for evaporation , and higher sides will make it harder for the content to get out . You can also purchase a splatter guard , which is like a flat sieve or mesh that you can place over the top of the pot to reduce splatter without blocking air flow although these are more typically used to reduce the splatter from frying .
There 's a few types of salsa -- salsa fresca ( aka pico de gallo , aka salsa cruda ) , which is " fresh salsa " and uncooked , and if made fresh , it should n't be too watery ( unless you add to much liquid , eg , lime juice ) , but letting the vegetables sit after salting will start to draw out extra liquid and could become watery . For truly thick salsa , you have to treat it like a jam , and cook it to release the pectin in the tomato . ( or I guess you could use some other thickeners ... I 've never tried . tomato paste , maybe ? ) You do n't necessarily have to cook the other ingredients , too , but I personally like roasting the peppers and onions to sweeten then up and remove some of the extra liquid . ( halve the peppers and seed them , lay them on a tray cut side up with the onion cut into wedges , roast 'til they 're softened , then dump into a food processor and either pulse or liquify it , depending on how chunky you like it . And the skin falls off the peppers , so I leave 'em out ) . You can do the same roasting with the tomatoes , and it 'll be thicker from the food processor , but you wo n't get the same cling without letting them cook slowly in liquid to develop the pectin . If you roast the tomatoes , I like to use plum tomatoes , as they have more " meat " to the gel around the seeds , and take out the gel and seeds .
Let 's start with a definition of cooking . The Oxford English Dictionary defines to cook as : To prepare or make ready ( food ) ; to make fit for eating by due application of heat , as by boiling , baking , roasting , broiling , etc. . However , from a chemical point of view , what happens when you are cooking meat is that you are using heat , amongst other things , to <URL> the proteins of the meat . Denaturation can also be achieved by other means , such as marinating the meat in an acid , such as citric acid ( contain in lemon juice ) or acetic acid ( contained in vinegar ) . You can also use other agents to induce denaturation , but they are not always fit for eating . However , it is important to understand that from a purely cooking perspective the two things are not the same : " cooking " with lemon ( I guess it is fine to use the verb to cook as long as you put it in quotes ) , gives a completely different result than cooking with heat . This is because other chemical reactions happen during application of heat and because , obviously , you do not end up with an hot product !
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
I would not recommend doing so . The technique you describe is known as <URL> , which as you might guess from the name is a <URL> in the French culinary tradition . It translates literally to " mount with butter " and is used to provide a rich , velvety mouthfeel to both white and brown sauces . By contrast , <URL> sauce originates in Japanese cuisine , which is a whole different tradition . Like Chinese cuisine and other east Asian cooking , Japanese cuisine does n't make use of much dairy , <URL> . Teriyaki sauce is generally a <URL> that gets its richness from a high proportion of sugar and can be thickened with cornstarch ( as seen in <URL> ) . You could try mounting a teriyaki sauce with butter , but my suspicion is that you might cause some of the sugar in the glaze to seize and crystallize by introducing cold butter ( as typically recommended when mounting ) and it would not be common in the culinary tradition that teriyaki comes to us from . So you can skip this step without causing any harm to your sauce or offense to any French or Japanese bystanders .
end question
start question
Why can heating things in a microwave make them soggy ?
Microwaves specifically heat water molecules in the food . This turns them to steam , and because the air in the microwave is actually cool , the steam then condenses . There is often not proper air circulation to move the steam away from the food . Often times the outside edges of the food will not be soggy , but rather burnt , because they receive more energy and the water can totally vaporize . For better results when reheating food , do not reheat your food on " high " or the default power . Reheat it at a lower setting for longer time . For pizza specifically , I heat it in the microwave only to room temperature and then finish it in the toaster oven or in a pan .
Do you like your noodles swimming in water ? If not , drain them .
It has nothing to do with the microwave and everything to do with the volatility of aromas and flavors in coffee . Even coffee kept warm for 4 hours wo n't taste very good . In my experience , stale brewed coffee results in a more pronounced acidity , if left out to cool , or a woody , muddy , bitter kind of flavor , sometimes with more pronounced acidity , if held warm . If you were to make a straight espresso , it 's optimal to drink it within 20-30 seconds . Brewed coffee can usually be held warm around 30 minutes before pronounced deterioration becomes obvious . A popular Japanese TV show suggested perhaps stirring a pinch of salt in to stale , reheated coffee , which may trick your tastebuds enough into tolerating it . I 've found that tactic less than adequate , but your mileage may vary . There 's a ton of information on coffee flavor compounds and other coffee-related research at : <URL>
It is simply that the microwave heats primarily the water molecules , causing the bread to steam . A normal oven heats all of the molecules of the bread , and by the time the water is heavily steaming you will have pulled it out of the oven .
It 's caused by the high amount of potassium in the banana . Microwaves react with metals , bouncing off and cause arcing . You can even create a cool light show by putting a raw peeled banana in the microwave . Do n't worry , it wo n't explode , but it will make a mess , it 's also harmless . This can also happen in some <URL> depending on the soil conditions they grew in . As noted in the linked article , other high concentrations of metals such as magnesium , iron , and zinc can be the responsible mineral . Momentary brief sparking is harmless and wo n't harm your microwave , but the USDA recommends turning off your microwave if you see sparks nonetheless . If it does start a fire , unless it 's a very small fire , do not open your microwave door . The safest thing is to turn off the microwave and let the fire burn itself out by consuming all the oxygen . Opening the door could create a dangerous backdraft induced fireball . Edit : Found a <URL> . See Also : <URL> <URL>
I would crispen the outside a bit by frying or baking them first . To improve the outer crust , you might dust with flour and corn starch before frying . Typically I have not previously had problems with meat balls in sauce becoming mushy using minimally breaded mix , spices , and lean - ish ( 90 % ) ground meat . Here are some additional points to consider ; If you use bread in your meatball mix , you might tilt the ratio more in favor of the meat If you are not using egg or some other binder , you might try doing so to create a tighter bond inside the ball If you are cooking the sauce at too high a heat ( I normally have mine set as low as possible when doing a long cook ) it may come to a simmer , making the sauce likelier to disrupt the meatballs . Maintain a lower heat or use a heavier pot If you are using ground meat , there is more room for the sauce to creep in . Make sure that they are packed sufficiently tightly when rolling them Short of leaving the sauce and meat overnight , flavors will transfer more quickly in warmer temperatures . I am having trouble locating definitive resources to back this claim up , so I am speaking mainly from experience . However , one caveat exists particular to collagen and connective tissues in meat ; <URL> . Mixing water and strong acids is an exothermic process ( gives off heat , does not benefit from warmth ) . However , this process is about mixing strong acids and fats . I would also mention that you are supposed to store tomatoes at room temp as the cold does not preserve their flavor and inhibits ripening , though I 'm not sure this is relevant .
Yes , you can . And it is not too easy . Microfoam has small bubbles by definition and the panarello wand will draw a ' certain ' amount of air and you ca n't really control that part . The notes below might help you get there . I have successfully done this with the panarello wands of automatic Saeco machines which are n't too different from deLonghi . Run your steam wand in a cup water first until it 's fully producing steam and not spuddering hot water mixed with steam . Use a small Stainless Steel Milk Frothing Pitcher . If the wand is trying to blow steam and air in for a long time , you 'll end up with big bubbles . That wand is not as powerful as a commercial espresso machine with a proper boiler . ' Stretch ' the froth only for a few seconds in the beginning . Keep the wand off-center in the pitcher to encourage circulation ( see next point ) . Most important : make sure you create a whirlpool to circulate the milk ( helps to gently move the pitcher in a circular motion to encourage the start of the whirlpool ) . I use the fattiest milk I can find . The trick is to move the milk in a circulation such that big bubbles break and only microbubbles survive . Some microfoam creation also happens at the vortex of the whirlpool .
The fourth option is the correct one . The problem is that if you start with oil in the mortar , the pestle will slip and you will not be able to properly mash the rest . What you usually do is : Wash the basil in cold water . Put the leaves on a tea towel and leave them to dry ( you can delicately pat them with another towel ) . You do n't want extra water in the pesto , so be sure the leaves are dry before starting . Traditional pesto is made with <URL> . Start with the garlic ( traditionally <URL> ) and a few grains of rock salt in the mortar . You would generally put 1-2 pips of garlic for ~ 50g basil leaves , but obviously that is up to your taste ( if you were to make Provencal pistou you would probably go for a higher garlic to basil ratio ) . I generally remove the inner part of the garlic ( the anima ) before mashing it . Now add the basil and mash them with a circular movement . You have to be quite delicate when doing this . You 'll see a green liquid forming at the bottom of the mortar . Now add pinenuts and/or the walnuts and finally the cheese . A mix of 36 months-aged Parmigiano Reggiano and pecorino ( sardo or romano ) is perfect for pesto . Finally add the extra-virgin olive oil slowly , while mixing . Put in clean pots , let it rest for half an hour , then if necessary cover with some extra oil . Whether you do this in batches or all at once mainly depends on the size of the mortar and how much pesto you are making . If you are making a big amount or have a small mortar repeat the steps for every batch ( I would wash the mortar each time , as it will be oily . Remember to dry it throughly before restarting ) . Most informations taken from : <URL> ( in Italian )
No , it wo n't change the aroma compared to conventional heating . Generally , heating does change aroma . But it changes in the same way in conventional heating and in microwave heating ( given that you heat to the same internal temperature , which can be very different time and power settings for different types of heating devices ) . What microwaves change is texture . That 's why the microwave is considered " a horrible thing " among chefs . You ca n't bake doughs or batters in it , and other things like vegetables can also suffer . Then there is the problem with uneven heating . None of these factors matter with liquids . You can warm milk , wine , whatever , in the microwave , without fearing a taste change .
In the <URL> , Madhur says one of the few uses she 's found for a plain microwave oven is to roast cashews . She dresses them in a little bit of oil , then spreads them out on a plate in a single layer and cooks them in the microwave oven until they turn brown . I assume dressing them in a little bit of oil helps browning . I found <URL> for cashews and other nuts , but which implies the oil contained in the nuts themselves is enough to get them to brown . And finally , about.com has a page which is specifically about <URL> .
I 'm afraid this is impossible . It 's the freezing , not the thawing , that causes this . Remember , water expands when freezing , so the freezing process breaks the cell walls , so when the pepper thaws , it has lost its crispness . This does n't matter if you 're going to mince it finely or cook it , though ! I freeze peppers regularly .
I second the recommendation for Lukas Volger 's <URL> . I 've been working my way through it and have made several of the recipes so far , all of which have been good . However , I would say that not all of the recipes in the book work well for the grill . I 've been doing everything vegan from the Volger book with mixed results . Many of the recipes use eggs , but you can do them with just breadcrumbs and water as the binder . They come out pretty delicate that way and are better in a skillet and then baked , as Volger recommends . His tofu and chard burgers use some tofu that has been browned then pureed as binder . This works ok , but the burgers came out quite delicate ( but still delicious ) . Silken tofu pureed in the food processor gets a thick , creamy texture that could also be used as a binder . Eggs are by far the most common binder as they may be the best edible binder there is , since they are basically liquid protein , but obviously not vegan . For delicate burgers , I use this <URL> on the grill , which works great . You can find something similar at most kitchen stores . Another binder option is steamed rice , prepared like you would for sushi . It gets sticky and makes a great binder , though they 'll still be a bit delicate . I 've been making the beet , brown rice and black bean burger recipe from Volger 's book . I add bbq sauce and a paste of pureed rehydrated prunes , similar to the veggie burger at Hillstone/Houston 's restaurant and they come out really great . They work fine right on the grill , though refrigerating them overnight makes them a little sturdier . Another option is adding vital wheat gluten and water , aka raw seitan dough . This is what is done in the <URL> black bean burger recipe . I tried these straight on the grill also and they stayed together perfectly , as well as any commercial veggie burger . However , they were a little bland and could use some more seasoning . I have n't tried any of these in burgers , but some common binders in vegan baking are peanut butter , apple sauce and <URL> . I bet peanut butter would work well in a burger with flavors that work with peanut , like Thai flavors or chipotle . Falafel-style burgers also do n't need any binders , they stick together pretty well and can be grilled , though you may want to use a grill grid or something similar . Lastly , you can put a cast iron skillet or pizza stone on the grill - it 's common now for grilled pizza and will work for delicate burgers .
I just found the <URL> for it . The name of it is Bak Kwa ( Sweet BBQ Pork Jerky ) . Here 's the <URL> ( boy it 's easy to find things when you know the name ! ) . The recipe actually grind up the pork . They use about 70 % meat and 30 % fat . But according to the wikipedia entry there is also an expensive version where they slice of a solid piece of meat . Sugar and salt was originally used and then the meat was smoked ( this sounds really close to BBQing , which generally cooks the meat with smoke ... yummy tender ribs ) . These days , people make them in the oven at low heat . In the recipe , they put the minced mixture between two sheets of parchment paper , which probably keeps it moist and tender !
You can get quite close , actually : <URL> will give you a decent coffee extraction . Warm up the milk in the microwave , and use a frother like <URL> to achieve a really thick and smooth latte foam . Your other option ( as <URL> ) is an electric Moka maker . I 've seen <URL> make a decent espresso and last a long time ( if instructions are followed ) . Many Italian households do n't own an espresso machine and simply go with a moka maker . Bialetti is very often the moka of choice .
Marshmallows expand so much because the water in them becomes steam , and gas takes up a LOT more volume than liquid . Specifically , 1 mL of water becomes ~ 1.36 LITERS of vapor , before it gets heated further . That 's 1000-fold expansion , before you add additional expansion as the gas is heated . Marshmallows do n't have all that much water content , but when it 's trapped in a stretchy gelatin matrix that holds gas readily , it only takes a bit to blow the whole thing up like a balloon . You are correct that the gas expansion on its own is insufficient ; unless I 've badly muddled my calculations , gas expansion from 20C to ~ 150C ( caramelization temperature ) will increase the gas volume by under 50 % .
The process of pasteurizing milk is to treat it with heat to kill microorganisms such as Brucella , Campylobacter , E. coli O157 : H7 , Listeria , Mycobacterium bovis , Salmonella , and Yersinia that may or may not be in the milk . This is a precautionary step that is taken when you are not 100 % sure whether your source of milk is disease free . Pasteurization can occur at different temperature for a different amount of time but the easiest temperature to pasteurize milk in the microwave is to bring it to 161 F for at least 15 seconds . Pasteurizing the milk in the microwave is a bit tricky because overheating it make cause it to boil over and it also heats the milk very unevenly . In the worse case scenario it can curdle if you overheat it . You will need to buy a thermometer for this method . You first want to microwave the milk for a minute . Then you want to stir the milk and take a temperature reading from the stirred milk . Now you want to continue to put the milk in the microwave in short 15-30 second intervals ( decreasing as it gets closer to 161 F ) and stirring and taking the temperature reading each time . When it has finally reach 161 F , you want to heat it for 15 extra seconds in the microwave and at that point it should be pasteurized . Another thing you can do is to just pasteurize it at home using your usual stove method and store the milk for later use . Once it has been pasteurized , as long as you refrigerate the milk , it will be good for a while . Just remember to quickly chill the milk ( using a ice water bath ) after you pasteurize it before you put it into the refrigerator .
As long as the containers can support eachother , it is likely safe to stack them . You biggest issue will be uneven reheating . Containers at the center are likely to remain cold . If you do stack them , insure that you occasionally rotate them . If possible , try to stack them in a way that allows for air flow around them . Stack layers at 90 degree angles . The flash point of paper is about 450F so you should be fine with the covers .
Almond Milk for cow 's milk was a really common substitution in medieval recipes . A lot of medieval recipes used almond milk - almonds being a lot easier to store without spoiling and find reliably when a medieval cook needed some . Almond milk was a staple of the medieval kitchen . It was used in a wide variety of dishes as a substitute for milk or cream , especially on " fish days " , when the church placed restrictions on what foods could be eaten ( the most prominent of which were the days during lent ) . from <URL> In the Middle Ages , animal milk was , of course , not refrigerated , and fresh milk did not stay fresh for long . Most cooks simply did not use much milk as the short shelf-life of the product made it a difficult ingredient to depend upon ... Rather than animal milk , Medieval cooks turned to something they could depend upon , and that was the milky liquid produced by grinding almonds or walnuts . This liquid , high in natural fats , could be prepared fresh whenever needed in whatever quantities . It also could be made well ahead of time and stored with no danger of degeneration . Because of its high fat content , it , like animal milk , could be churned into butter , and because it was not animal milk , it could be used and consumed during Church designated meatless days . from <URL> Some dishes can not be made with this substitution , those that depend on the physical and chemical properties of milk - like cheese , or whipped cream . It would take a lot of processing and additives to make the almond milk mimic those products . However , both milks contain fats , proteins , and sugars in solution , and so behave similarly enough in the chemistry of cooking to make them easy substitutes . I will admit that while I cited medievalcookery.com and godecookery.com because the quotes were convenient , I posted my comment originally drawing from David Freedman and Elizabeth Cook 's " How to Milk an Almond , Stuff and Egg , and Armor a Turnip : A thousand years of recipes " which is very well researched and contains a number of period citations and recipes .
Yes , it is safe . It is really more a question of quality . I would suggest that , in your specific situation you get a browning dish . ( It would be something that you could still use after your move , if you like . ) Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . There is nothing like a charbroiled steak straight off the grill . But for the times when you do n't want to fire up the grill - or even get the broiler dirty - there is a way to sear steaks in the microwave on an accessory called a browning dish . A microwaved steak will not brown well without one , and the dish is really the only acceptable way to brown in the microwave . Browning dishes can be either flat rectangular plates or black skillets that are designed for the microwave . Embedded in the plate or skillet are metal strips that cause the microwaves to couple or link , producing an electrical current . The dish also is coated with a metal that is resistant to the electrical current . You can read the rest of the article and the how-to information by following the link .
I 'm going to propose a different cooking method that 's closer to cooking it on the stovetop ; gnocchi when cooked wrong can be quite dense . It 's still edible , but it 's not as enjoyable . take your cooking vessel , and heat up your cooking liquid ( I 'd go with just water , as we do n't know how much liquid it 's going to absorb , and we do n't want too runny of a sauce ) Float a toothpick in it , or something else microwave safe . ( note : this is for safety ... we need nucleation points so you do n't get scalded in step # 5 ) Microwave on high 'til boiling ** Remove the toothpick Add the gnocci Microwave on high 'til boiling again Microwave on low until floating . Drain Add sauce Microwave to warm the sauce . ** as you said you had a combination water cooler/heater , you can start with hot water , and skip steps 2 through 4 .
end question
start question
Over cooking shiitake mushrooms ?
I have seen pot roast of Shitake . Pot roast = over-cooked obviously . There were pot roast for : duck roast , chicken roast , pork trotters , buddhist faux meat , Buddha jumped over the wall roast . All of them amply roasted with shitakes . Okay , for what I have tried , I encountered two kinds of shitake pot roast sweet and sour sweet and salted soy-sauced The Buddhist faux meat : I saw the usual buddhist faux meat the permutations of which I think are due to diverse combination of various flours , soy and other beans . The thick gravy is dark brown with obvious scent of dark sweet soy sauce and black vinegar . And the over-cooked shitakes are chewy juicy with the wonderful gravy . Chicken pot roast : Then there was another time , the chicken pot roast . The gravy was thinner but not sour . It was a whole chicken that was boiled in sauce with the shitake . From what I understand , the shitake roast was done first and then the chicken submerged in the boiling cauldron at the end of the roast . At the last 10 minutes may be . Shitake juiced up with gravy enriched with chicken taste/flavour . Chewing on the shitake You should try overcooked shitake that has absorbed the juicy gravies . Chocolate mousse cake is nowhere in comparison just as you sink your teeth into it and the juice runs down your chin . And then you lick your fingers after you had them wipe your chin . Slow cooked shitake pot roast . I am sure there were spices involved . I also believe they used shitakes that had been stabilised by drying ( i.e. dried shitakes ) . Otherwise , I doubt fresh shitakes could take the strain of being overcooked .
There is an excellent answer to this question on the Physics SE : <URL> I will summarise what I think is the most cogent part here . This does work up to a point . The bubbles formed by boiling water are filled with steam , so if anything colder than the steam ( ie < 100 ° C ) touches a bubble the steam will immediately condense and the bubble will collapse . Therefore provided the surface of your spoon is cold , it will help to prevent boiling over . If it 's a long boil and the spoon heats up to 100 ° C it will no longer work . This is why a wooden spoon is recommended : metal would heat up too quickly .
Mushrooms DO require a good amount of oil due to the fact that they will initially absorb it . However make sure that you 're adding salt to them right away to help begin drawing the juices out and start them over high heat , making sure that the pan is " screaming " hot before you ever add the oil and the mushrooms so that it will retain the heat even after the mushrooms are added to the pan . As the juices begin to exude from the mushrooms they will take the place of the oil and as the juices evaporate , the oil will aid in browning of the mushrooms . As they moisture begins to evaporate you can begin to decrease the temperature to avoid having to add more oil and keep them from sticking to the pan . I think mushrooms taste best when they 've been allowed to cook to the point where the moisture has evaporated and a really good browning has taken place ( not burnt of course ) .
A step by step guide from the wikipedia page : <URL> reproduced here in case wikipedia changes .
Ceramic will - if preheated - prevent some cooling of your water , but plastic filter-holders do n't have much heat capacity so you do n't lose much with them , either . Plastic filter-holders and paper filters have the advantage of not costing much so you can have one at home , one at work , one anywhere else you want ... As with most coffee preparation , a good grinder is paramount and getting freshly roasted coffee is also extremely important .
Usually it 's best to cook dried noodles in boiling water , and drain and rinse them in cold water when they are done . This does a couple of things : helps ensure that the noodle is equally cooked all the way through ( instead of getting overcooked on the outside by the time the centre is cooked ) . by using separate water , you do n't fill your broth with starch , which would adversely affect the taste , colour and consistency . If you want to add the noodles directly to the broth , I would recommend rinsing them in cold water first ( like you would with rice ) until the water runs clear . This will prevent excess starch from being added to your dish . You could also try adding a stock cube to the water that you boil the noodles in , if your goal is simply to make the noodles more flavourful .
I cook 'em on medium-high heat in butter until they 're browned and crisped to my liking . I do n't cover - that seems to result in soggier mushrooms than I prefer .
A major reason produce can be sold loose without tongs is that you 're supposed to wash it just before preparing it anyway . You could n't wash your baked goods . How effective this washing is , is of course another matter now we do n't have to wash the mud off and a token rinse is probably typical . Some produce , including mushrooms but also strawberries etc. , could easily be damaged by tongs anyway .
Should be fine to eat , from a food safety perspective . The heat will be high enough to prevent bacterial growth . I ca n't speak to the flavor , of course . Edible is a matter of opinion . Goodness knows we 've all eaten our culinary screwups that nobody else would touch at least once .
As long as you complete the salmon 's cooking in the sauce , it 's fine . If you 're not sure when the salmon 's done by your method , I 'd suggest completing its cooking in the microwave as directed by the package and then adding it to the pasta and sauce just before preparing to serve the dish .
You have two delicious choices . Both require a bed of coals , so I 'll start with that . You 'll need to build a fire with the logs stacked ' log cabin ' style , and let the fire burn down to coals . You want a deep red coal , just starting to darken on top . The coals should look something like this . You can bake , or bbq the chicken and asparagus . Both are delicious methods . To bake , wrap the chicken , asparagus and a starch like potato gratin style in layers of tinfoil . Use the starch around the outside , you 'll sacrifice a layer of it as some of it sticks/burns to the tinfoil . Put the most delicate item in the middle , in this case the asparagus , and the chicken around the asparagus . Add a generous amount of butter , salt and pepper and bake for about an hour buried in the coals . Corn or green beans are also very good , and can be sacrificed a little around the outside to preserve your meat and vegetables . I would layer it this way . Now , BBQ . You 'll do it very much like a charcoal BBQ . Keep the grate close to the coals , you can generally test the heat by holding your hand above the grate , you should only be able to keep your hand there for a second or two at most . Grill the chicken like you would on a bbq , and roast the asparagus on a cooler part of the grill . I 'd marinate both before putting them on the grill . I 'd also try to get an aromatic wood like hickory or mesquite , pine will impart a resinous taste .
In France , white button mushrooms are called champignons . Before refrigeration was common , books suggested <URL> , because undercooked mushrooms would quickly spoil . If you cooked them and later keep them in the refrigerator , it is safe to reheat mushrooms . Treat mushrooms as you would treat meat . Mushrooms are mainly water , so they reheat well in the microwave . Do it on low power . Depending on the cooking technique , the texture may change by using high power .
Soak them for a while in warm water , and you 'll be able to use them , yes . However It is equally important to know that you should reserve the liquid for its essential mushroomness , and yet also that said reserved liquid should be run through a coffee filter to remove grit .
To summarize the <URL> and provide a framework for answering : ' Gluten is responsible for elasticity of dough , which is perceived as chewiness ' , ' The " rising " in baked goods is essentially just stretching of the gluten network ' , ' Gluten is also exceptionally good at both absorbing and retaining moisture ' Dough 's rising is catalyzed by the yeast eating sugar and giving off gas , the gas becomes suspended in the gluten network which has body from absorbed moisture and is restrained and stregthened by the salt . The end . In the absence of gluten , there is no network for the gas to lift . However , when you add xanthum or guar gum , their qualities as hydrocolloids <URL> . <URL> , gelatin also produces flex and supports a smoother texture ( common complaints about gluten-free breads refer to their grainy texture ) . <URL> from the gluten free dough you 'll get a sopping wet mess that does nothing ; using flax and chia seed will pull it back into shape . Both seeds , when milled will gel andprovide the meringue-type ( though not as effective or durable ) effect . <URL> , hence it 's addition to the King Arthur 's gluten free flour mix . ' When baking without gluten , you will have to be very precise about all of your measurements ' , as gluten is more forgiving due to its slow-acting nature Yep . In gluten-free baking one must substitute precision for not precision . Over kneading can be fatal especially in recipes with flax and chia . ' Its coagulation action is actually very similar to that of egg whites ... gluten is basically doing the same thing inside of whatever you 're baking ' Gluten allows you to replicates the function of eggs in some use cases . Flax and chia eggs as well as Ener-G egg replacer are common vegan replacements to eggs , but as this question is simply about gluten-free baking the answer is to just use an egg ; some recipes call for one , some do n't . However , there is no likely use case where the functionality of an egg being replicated by gluten would preclude using an egg . ' Finally , it provides nutritive protein when eaten . Wheat gluten is about 75 % protein ' : Yep . Get protein somewhere else . There are 2 grams of protein in a slice of white bread , have an ounce of black beans . ' In short : Gluten does a lot of things . Keep in mind when doing gluten-free baking that a lot of the substitutes only replicate one or two of the effects . ' : The combination of multiple agents is generally necessary to provide the same functions . If you look at <URL> , you 'll see that the bread flour alone contains a super-fine flour , potato starch and tapioca starch . The recipe calls for xanthum gum and an egg in addition to the tapioca and potato starches . There you already have four ingredients doing the work of the gluten .
Yes you can . The term is called <URL> . Just fry it briefly in a skillet , drain , and wrap your item .
I make stir fry all the time and do the same thing as you . I would make extra , enough for 2 - 3 meals . The thing I do to prevent the vegetables from getting too mushy in the refrigerator is by cooking the stirfry about 75 % ( I make sure if I am doing this that the meat is fully cooked first ) and then take out the portion that I intend to refrigerate . This allows me to either finish cooking it in the microwave if I am taking it to work or reheat it up in the stove if I am staying home . Also since I am taking the portions from the upper part of the stirfry , there is less sauce that the vegetables will be steeping in so that should solve your problem of too much sauce . Another thing you should remember is that the types of vegetables you use makes a big difference . If you choose all vegetables that turns really soft when cooked ( onion , squash , peppers ) then reheated stirfry using those vegetables will be not as unpalatable . The trick is to use a variety of textured vegetables . Also I dont want to state the obvious but if your problem is your sauce , have you ever tried using a different ( lighter ) sauce recipe ?
Cooking classes are n't the only way to learn cooking - in fact , they 're a relatively expensive way to go about it , especially as it 's hard to introduce all the various techniques in one lesson . There are any number of beginner 's cook books out there that introduce basic concepts and techniques extremely well . There are masses of videos on YouTube covering just about every cooking topic and recipe * . Food blogs abound online . Check them all out , start with basic things like sauteeing onions , boiling eggs etc , and take it from there . I know this works , because it 's pretty much what I did ( though I started before I had the benefit of YouTube ) . Another good way of learning is to find a friend who does cook and help them out chopping veg etc , and have them talk you through a basic recipe ( like spaghetti bolognese ) as they go . And of course , you can always ask the wizened sages of Seasoned Advice . If you do decide to go for cooking classes , do n't discount those focusing on a specific cuisine ; food has to come from somewhere , and they all use the same basic set of techniques . There 's only so many ways you can chop and heat foodstuffs after all . I started cooking by learning how to make a decent Chinese stir fry , for example . * I realise I recommended YouTube in my answer to your other question , but it is a great resource . I do n't work for them :)
When we have had garlic in our garden I have used the garlic leaves . They do have a garlicky flavor but are milder than garlic cloves . I tend to use them more as I would chives or garlic chives as in addition to having the milder flavor than the cloves they make for a quite nice presentation . Regarding drying them , I have never tried it . Off the top of my head I ca n't think of any reason not to dry them for later use but there may be issues that I just do n't know about .
Based on comments , the likely culprit is moisture cooking out of the mushrooms and into your other ingredients . Mushrooms contain a surprising amount of liquid , and when cooking them you 'll see that they shrink down significantly due to moisture loss . If you 're adding them to other ingredients , some of the resulting liquid is hanging around in the pan long enough to discolor other , lightly colored items like eggs or tofu . What I would suggest is sauteeing your mushrooms by themselves for at least a couple minutes , to release their moisture prior to adding everything else . <URL> . Be sure you salt them to draw out moisture , and make sure that you do n't crowd the pan ( see <URL> ) so that the moisture can cook off effectively . Both eggs and tofu should cook fairly quickly , so you can add them after the first couple minutes and the mushrooms can continue to brown and cook afterwards . If you have other ingredients that need to cook for an extended amount of time , you may want to cook your mushrooms separately if the color bothers you . If you 're using a separate pan , this wo n't really add additional time , but you will have extra cleaning to do . Mushrooms are funky that way - common sense might indicate that they be cooked like vegetables , but there 's a reason why <URL> instead .
The best thing I 've figured out about turning eggs is : do not do it too early . You need to wait for the cooked part of the egg to develop a strong texture before it will support its own weight . It 's very difficult to turn a floppy , soft egg , where it 's comparatively easy to flip an egg that has been cooked more completely on one side . I also use a relatively high heat , as this " crisps " the cooked surface . It also makes the egg more attractive . The spatula you use can make a difference , also , though I believe this is minor . The spatula you want is a plastic one with a relatively thin , flexible blade . The really heavy spatulas tend to be too tall , in my experience , and push the egg rather than sneak under it .
end question
start question
Is designating knives to avoid cross-contamination necessary ?
Using separate cutting boards is advisable , but separate knives are unnecessary . 90 % of my cutting is done with my chef 's knife . I do n't own two of these , nor would I use a subpar knife for the job . I almost always find it most convenient to start my preparation by cutting the veggies , fruit , etc. first and then finally cutting the meat last . Then you can wash your knife once and be done with it .
It 's to prevent rust . Rust requires oxygen and water to form . The longer you leave your knives wet or damp the more likely you are to develop rust .
A pull-through sharpener will never do as thorough a job at sharpening your knife as a stone , and over time will lose its efficacy and actually dull your blade . In a pinch they can be useful , but be sure to give the knife a few passes on a good quality steel afterwards , as the pull-through sharpeners tend to remove metal quite coarsely .
Peel the rhubarb before cooking - you can strip off the outer skin from the stalks quite easily . That helps . EDIT : My wife told me to explain why . In Yorkshire , the rhubarb capital of the world , you can buy " forced rhubarb " , which has a tender pink skin because it is forced to grow up through dark tubes towards the light . Because " garden Rhubarb " is not forced , the " gritty teeth sensation " components accumulate in the skin , and an authority on the subject ( my mother ) told me many ( > 50 ) years ago that it was a good idea to peel it . She also taught me that it was a good way to divert children - show them how to pick a tender stem and dip it in sugar , then eat it raw - and that the sugar sticks to the stem easier if you peel the skin off first . My grandmother had a lot of mysterious ways with rhubarb , including using it in ginger beer instead of the usual lemon . These are lost in time , but she always peeled it , whatever it was being used for , to avoid that sensation .
Generally speaking , when the length of the cooking time required to cook the filling correctly is such that the crust would burn if it was n't covered . It is usually more necessary when you have blind-baked the crust , but I must say I 've cooked a lot of pies in my time and never covered the crust because I 'm always careful to par-bake the crust just enough to seal it and no more .
Storing Tea You tea should never become bitter due to your storage methods . The only thing that should happen to tea as a result of how you store it is general loss of flavor or loss of the complexity of flavor ( in a green tea , you might lose any honey or fruit notes of a tea that has been improperly stored , but it 'll still taste like green tea ) . There are a couple of factors at play when storing tea . The first is light . Exposure to light will degrade the quality of tea , stripping it of both color and flavor . Light also sets off <URL> . So , you should store your tea in a light-blocking container ( like a typical metal tea tin ) . The next factor is air . Tea needs to be stored in a place that does not have any strong-smelling other foods or chemicals because it absorbs other odors very easily . In addition , tea absorbs moisture from the air , so it needs to be stored in a dry place . Moisture can cause several different problems with your tea : it could start binding to the tannins and make your tea taste bitter when you eventually brew it , and excess moisture could provide breeding grounds for bacteria or fungus , which would make your tea unfit for brewing at all . So , store your tea in an airtight container that blocks moisture and any other nearby odors . Vacuum sealing is not necessary , unless you want to keep a batch of tea for a long time without using it at all . I have n't found any evidence supports claims of oxidation affecting taste more than moisture or light . Different types of tea are created by oxidizing tea leaves ( white teas are the least oxidized , black teas the most , and greens and oolongs are somewhere in between ) , so oxidation is not inherently bad for tea . To sum it up : Protect your tea from the harmful effects of light , moisture , ambient odors , and air by storing it in an airtight container in a cool , dark place . If stored properly , most kinds of tea leaves should retain most of their flavor for about two years , though fresher is always better . ( Some teas , like Japanese green teas , are traditionally only stored for about 3 months . ) Brewing Tea In order to achieve the best taste , brew tea according to the processor 's instructions ( at least to start with - once you become more familiar with tea and what you like , you can adjust according to taste ) . The tea manufacturer 's want their tea to taste good , and they are experts , so you can rely on them to provide decent instructions . I 've never bought tea that did n't have instructions for brewing right on the package , but in case you find some that do n't have instructions , here are some general guidelines . I 've taken this from Upton Tea 's <URL> , and it corresponds to my own experience with making tea and chatting with tea importers / shop owners , too . Whole Leaf Teas black teas : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 3-4 minutes ; if serving with milk or lemon , steep 4-5 minutes green teas : slightly less than boiling ( 180 F ) , steep 2-3 minutes oolong teas : lighter oolongs use warm ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes white teas : less than boiling ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes herbal tisanes : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 5-8 minutes Fanning , Crushed Leaves , or Powder This is what most pre-bagged teas are , and since they have been processed to be finer , they require a shorter brewing time . ( Finer leaves means more surface area , so you get more tannins per second when brewing , compared to tea leaves in larger pieces . ) Use guidelines above , but brew for 1-1 .5 minutes less than whole leaf teas The bitter taste comes from <URL> . There are two ways for tea to become unpleasantly bitter : steeping at too high a temperature , or steeping for too long . ( It 's also possible that if your water is heavily chlorinated or otherwise impure that it could be making your tea taste bad , but that 's far less likely than improper brewing . ) If you 're making tea from loose tea leaves , using too many leaves could also make your tea bitter ; a good rule of thumb is 1 teaspoon of tea per 8 oz of water , though this can vary depending on the type of tea you 're making . Generally speaking , the longer you brew tea , the more tannins will be released and the bitterer the tea will be . If you use the times above as a starting point , you should n't get any overly bitter tea , but remember : each batch of tea is unique , and each tea drinker 's taste is different . Experiment until you find what you consider to be the perfect cup of tea . Lastly , start with good quality tea . Some tea is poorly processed and the flavor is ruined before you 've even opened the package . If you start with a high-quality tea , you 're much more likely to get good results . :)
Whilst you 'll probably be fine using the same knife and chopping board to prepare everything that 's going in an " all in one " meal such as a stew , here 's the reasons I have for never doing so : It 's a bad habit to get into . It 's very easy to slip-up and forget that you 're not making an " all in one " meal and thus chop some lettuce on a board you 've already used for slicing raw bacon when making a salad , if most of the meals you make are " all in one " and you usually do n't have to " worry " about cross-contamination It does n't take that long . Washing your chopping board down with hot soapy water and a clean sponge/scourer takes literally a few minutes , the same can be said for a knife . If you 're pressed for time you could turn the board over and use a fresh knife . That assumes that the work surface was clean beforehand and the food being prepared on the " first " side was dry and thus wo n't have liquid run-off that 's contaminated the underside of the board It 's not worth getting wrong . If you make a mistake and get food poisoning , or worse - give someone else food poisoning , you 'll really wish you 'd done your utmost to prevent cross-contamination .
The reason to par-bake your pie shell is because it would not cook through in the same time that the filling does . So it depends on what type of filling you are going to use . For example , if you are using a traditional short crust with a cream ( custard ) filling , the custard will probably cook faster than the crust would , so you would want to par-bake the shell . On the other hand , for an apple pie with a deep layer of fruit , by the time the fruit is cooked through , the crust usually is too , so par baking is not required . In your specific example , you have not said what the filling is , that you are precooking . However , if it is essentially fully cooked , you could blind-bake your shells then just put them together to heat through for service . You would need to share more details to get more specific advise .
In a hot pan , the oil droplets jump off for three reasons usually : When you add oil to a hot pan that is not completely dry yet ( i.e some water present in the pan ) . This residue water will boil , turn into steam and splatter oil . When you are adding wet food to the hot oil . The water turns into steam and splatters oil . Solution : Making sure the food is fairly dry before putting in oil . E.g. drying vegetables with a paper towel . When you are turning food . Solution : as @Wayfaring Stranger said , flip to food towards the opposite end , not towards you . Another thing might be that you are using a very shallow walled-pan , but mostly , splattering oil is due to water being present .
Yes , ceramic knives are the " new thing , " but that does n't make them superior . The problem with ceramic knives is that you can never sharpen them , and , as mentioned in the comments , they may chip . Do n't get a ceramic chef 's knife or paring knife ; the answer to your question is zero . If you really want a ceramic knife , then buy a ceramic bread knife , although you wo n't be getting any extra performance for the money . Ceramic blade mandolines , however , are great . The ceramic blade will be sharper and hold the edge longer than a steel mandoline , and since you do n't sharpen a mandoline anyway , it does n't matter that ceramic does n't sharpen . Note , a separate , and good , question would be " what knives do I need ? " The answer is it depends , but I concur that you should not buy a " set " of knives .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
Well your chef 's knife should constitute about 90 % of your usage I 'd say . It should be used for slicing , dicing just about anything . Your paring knife is actually the 3-4 " one you describe . Paring knives are typically used for delicate tasks like , coring apples , peeling , and some people use it for mincing garlic because it 's so small . I 've never seen a 2 " serrated knife before , so I 'm not sure what I 'd use that for if anything . If you 're using it because it seems to do a better job on the vegetables , then that 's a sign that your chef 's knife is dull . I have seen tomatoes sliced with a 6 " serrated utility knife due to their tenderness . However , you generally do n't want to use a serrated knife on an onion , this will cause a lot of the gas to be released that makes you cry .
Salt is not necessary , it 's just a flavour thing , a common personal preference I suspect you 'll get a saltier taste by putting it in the water , than putting it in the sauce for the same volume of salt Hot water is not necessary too , you can prepare dried pasta with cold water . But it does n't taste right to me , so does salt less pasta :-)
I do n't think there 's an " official " answer , and using obscure French terms is a good way not to be understood , but for reasonably knowledgeable readers , the most concise terms are definitely slicing latitudinally and longitudinally . ( " first , assume a spherical onion ... " )
Found the second answer to my question . Per each cup of gluten free flour , add one tsp of xanthan gum ! Woo hoo !
You should refer to the discussion here : <URL> Some relevant points : MSG is found naturally in seaweed and other things . It is used to enhance the flavors it is combined with . It is completely harmless unless you are limiting your sodium intake . Check out the wikipedia article on the subject as a starting point : <URL> In short there has been no linkage to any adverse effects found in many controlled studies . As far as replacing it - You can leave it out altogether or add a little salt .
You might be stumbling about the fact that " <URL> " is more ambiguous that your Krapfen = donut conclusion . The small piece of yeast-based dough , often filled and/or fried . That 's the category your " Krapfen " and donuts fall into . In many dialects they are also called " Kreppel " . ( And a bunch of other names . ) Filled pasta dough , sweet or savoury , typically folded and/or crimped together . While an Italian would talk about " ravioli " , an Estern European about " pieroggi " and an Asian about " dumplings " , someone from Southern Tyrol or the Allgäu would call them " Krapfen " ( but also use the term for the variety above ) and in Jiddish cuisine it 's a " <URL> " . So if you want a donut , say so . The term krapfen wo n't mean anything to an English speaker ( check your favourite dictionary , I just did ! ) . But do n't be surprised if you are offered kreplach and get a ravioli , not a donut .
Use a deeper dish . Fries should n't be fried in a skillet . Use a 4 + quart pan . Then cover with a metal screen to reduce the splatter .
Seems almost every question about bacteria seems to bring about both the bacteriophobes and the cavalier . In this case , the cavalier are probably closer to being right , but I 'll try to present the facts so that you can decide for yourself . The most common microbe groups responsible for household food poisoning are : Salmonella , found in poultry , <URL> the <URL> . CDT can be denatured ( technically , " heat-labile " ) but is one of the most resistant toxins , taking <URL> to destroy . This type of bacteria is n't normally associated with eggs , but since chicken eggs and other poultry products may be handled in the same area , it 's not unthinkable that the shells could become contaminated - and depending on how you handle the eggs , so could the frying pan . E.Coli is normally associated with beef but is also <URL> . It 's improbable , but not impossible for it to be <URL> as well . This is a bit of a weird one because <URL> , but not in the yolk itself or the frying pan . The strains of e.coli associated with food poisoning encode <URL> ( SLT ) and also <URL> , the latter of which are often heat stable . I 'm not sure about SLT , but the STs can <URL> . <URL> ( causing Campylobacteriosis ) produces certain enterotoxins and <URL> . As above , these tend to be heat-resistant . <URL> is responsible for for botulism and is ubiquitous . The spores are incredibly difficult to kill but they are also only harmful to infants and the immunodepressed . More importantly , the bacteria are killed by heating to 85 ° C for 5 minutes and are also anaerobic - meaning they can only grow when they are not exposed to air . In other words , these may be present , but wo n't grow and produce toxins on a reasonably clean pan . <URL> is one of the most common sources of food poisoning , and I believe is actually what drives a lot of the specific food safety/food inspection rules . The spores are very heat resistant ( can survive boiling for a full hour ) , and even though it is anaerobic , <URL> . It can grow on a pan - just more slowly than it would grow in an enclosed container or in raw/fresh food . <URL> causes staph infections but also produces heat-resistant enterotoxins . It does n't generally come from food , but more than 20 % of humans are carriers , and also many pets ( cats and dogs ) , so it is very likely in your household somewhere and can easily get on your frying pan and multiply on leftover food bits . <URL> is less common but very resilient ( they 're known for " fried rice syndrome " because they can survive steaming ) and afterward produce spores and heat-resistant enterotoxins . Important to note that many strains of this are harmless - but not all . <URL> causes ( as you may have guessed ) cholera symptoms which come from CTX and TCP toxins . Both of these are heat-labile although I was n't able to find a time/temperature data point . Chances are , you have at least one these friends in your kitchen . Chances are , you have several . The question is , did enough of them manage to get onto your frying pan after your last meal to produce dangerous levels of toxins ? Probably not . It 's really very unlikely . But it is possible , and you 're taking a chance if you do n't wash your dishes . In fact , it 's probably more dangerous with eggs , because typically you 'd cook eggs only up to a temperature of around 70 ° C , at most ( 63 ° is the temperature at which they set ) . So day after day you 're bringing all those lovely bacteria right into the <URL> for several minutes and not staying above it for very long at all ! Doing this one time ... really not a big deal . Bacteria do n't get to multiply much in the 5 minutes ( or less ) it takes to fry an egg , and most eggs are n't even contaminated to begin with , although <URL> . But doing this several times , day after day - you 're increasing your risk each day because the pan may never get hot enough , long enough , to kill all of the new bacteria from the day before . I would strongly recommend that you wash your pans after use . You do n't need to use soap if they 're cast-iron ; a good scrub with salt and hot water is fine . But please - especially if you 're going to be cooking for guests - do n't just leave the dirty pans sitting there and use them again the next day without washing them first . It 's not safe . P.S. I 'd like to draw attention to the fact that of all of the items in the list above , botulism , despite having some of the worst symptoms , is generally the least of your worries . Both the bacteria and the toxin are easy to kill , and the spores are harmless to healthy adults . So if you hear people on this site or any site talk about food safety entirely in terms of botulism and the temperatures required to kill/inactivate the bacteria/toxin , ignore them , because they have n't done their homework .
It is n't necessary to even thaw bones before tossing them in the water , so long as you 're cooking long enough . With that said , to roast first and then toss in the stock , the goal is to get some browning going ( I 'm assuming your recipe says to roast at a relatively high temp like 400 ) to add some flavor , much like browning the meat at the bottom of a pot for a stew . Tossing them in the oven at 400 degrees for about 30-45 minutes will brown them for you and you 're not too worried about getting the insides cooked ( the core reason to why people do n't try to roast frozen meat ) . Stocks in general is as far from an exact thing as any recipe can go . There was this interesting article talking about all the differences in schools ... <URL> So in conclusion ... it is n't necessary . If you 're a stickler for recipes or you 're trying to duplicate something as close as you can , thaw the bones .
end question
start question
If I ca n't find baking soda or baking powder , what should I do ?
1 . Chemical leaveners There are two " oldfashioned " chemical leaveners , both still used today in traditional German and Scandinavian gingerbread recipes : Potassium carbonate ( potash or pearl ash ) and Ammonium bicarbonate ( salt of heartshorn ) They do have their own quirks and pitfalls , but if nothing else is available ... If you can get baking soda , mix with cream of tartar to make baking powder . If your store does not stock it , you pharmacy most likely will carry " sodium hydrogen carbonate " ( which is another name for baking soda ) either as treatment for heartburn , it 's an antacid ( because it reacts with acid , neutralzing it and making these nice bubbles , as we know from baking ... ) or as topical treatment for allergic reactions of the skin ( poison ivy and others ) . 2 . Biological leaveners This boils down to Saccharomyces cerevisiae , aka . baker 's yeast or brewer 's yeast . Of course you get very different results and have to follow a different procedure . But here are some recipes where they are used somewhat interchangeably , e.g. some types of pancakes or waffles and , obviously , bread ( vs. sodabread ) . The charming thing about yeast is , that if your are really , really far from a store , you can still get your hands on yeast : Start a sourdough using the yeasts naturally occuring on fruits or the air around you . Probably not the kind of substitution you had in mind , though . 3 . No leaveners With good technique , you can incorporate a lot of air ( because that 's what all leaveners are supposed to do ) in your baking goods by whipping your eggs well . There are various approaches : You can whip the whole eggs . Whip the yolks ( with hot water or over a water bath to stabilize them ) to Zabaione-like consistency . Whip the whites and fold into your batter . You will want to bake these batters right away before the bubbles get a chance to burst . The air will expand during baking and the hardening egg/flour-mixture will trap them in the baked goods . Contrary to many recipes out there there is no real need to bake a pound cake or even sponge cake with baking powder if it 's done right . Other recipes without leavener ( or rather with the egg trapping steam generated by a rather high water content ) are the members of the popover family ( Yorkshire pudding in the UK , Pfitzauf in Swabia , some dutch pancakes ) and pâté a choux . Puff pastry relies on thin layers of butter separating the layers of floury dough and trapping steam between them .
Baking powder , especially if too great a quantity is used , adds an unpleasant flavor to a baked good . Even in an appropriate quantity it can be noticeable and it certainly does n't do anything to enhance the flavor . Many baked goods traditionally do n't use a chemical leavener at all , but instead rely on technique . Creaming butter and sugar together or whipping egg whites was historically used to make cakes which rose solely based on the bubble network that was created . Yeast , on the other hand , creates a delightful flavor that you associate with your favorite crusty loaf of bread . Yeast can be used not only in making bread but also in some excellent cakes ( <URL> , for example , although many " knock off " recipes cheat here and miss out on the true goodness ) . Yeast also provides a significantly different texture during the rising due to the intentional creation of a gluten network ( usually something you absolutely do n't want in a quick bread or quick cake ) -- you do n't get a crumb with big , airy holes from baking powder or baking soda with an acid . Also , in my experience baking powder lasts six months in the pantry and yeast lasts at least six months in the fridge . The shelf life is not so different . If yeast scares you , you may want to check out some of the proponents of the <URL> technique . For a lot more information on this subject , there is a recent publication that covers all sorts of <URL> .
It is no different from other prototyping processes or exploratory research . You are not confirming a scientific hypothesis here , you are actively searching . So the most important thing is : fail fast . So , for the question of mini batches vs. large batches , you certainly need mini batches . And in cooking it is more important than in other fields , as humans have a very poor ability to remember or record sensory qualities . In tasting two muffins side by side , you will notice differences which would not be obvious from notes from previous batches . Another thing which people find hard to remember : beat the Not Invented Here syndrome ! There is a lot of information out there about which ingredient does what , which ratios are good for a given type of baked good , etc. . It is boring to research them if you could be baking instead - but in the end , experimenting alone in your kitchen without theoretical background will never give you results as good as those created by teams of specialists who have been doing this their whole life , and using other information sources beyond primary experimentation . So , as with any good research , formulate your question first , and be specific . Then search for answers to this question . Only after you have found the theory , experiment how it applies to your recipe . Randomly changing things and hoping that you will hit gold is what many people do , but it is the opposite of a best practice .
It 's going to depend greatly on what you 're baking . Sugar serves several different purposes beyond just providing sweetness . Besides sweetness : tenderness by interrupting and minimizing gluten formation . Sugar promotes spread in cookies Retain moisture and extend keeping quality ( in baking sugar is actually considered a " liquid " ingredient due to its hygroscopic qualities - the ability to pull moisture from it 's surrounding atmosphere ) . Promotes browning and caramelizing Assists in aeration and leavening ( as in creaming butter and sugar to aerate the dough ) stabilizes egg whites Provides food for yeast growth and fermentation In some instances you might be able to use a syrup ( honey , corn syrup , molasses , etc. ) but not in all cases . For instance the granular nature of sugar is necessary for aeration of cookies and cakes because the jagged edges create air pockets as they pass through the fat . Syrups primarily serve the purposes of sweetening , browning , and moistening . Honey could be used in muffins that are being made using the muffin method ( aka two-bowl method ) because this method would use a liquid fat ( melted butter/oil ) but not in the creaming method ( producing a more cakelike structure from the creaming process ) . When using syrups you have to account for the addtional moisture that they provide . From : " How Baking Works " ( Paula Figoni ) " The National Honey Board recommneds the substitution for using honey in place of granulated sugar . This accounts for both the amount of water in honey and for its intense sweetness : use 1 pound honey in place of 1 pound granulated sugar ; reduce water ( or other liquid ) in the formula ( recipe ) by 2.5-3 ounces . " Overall , when making substitutions of ingredients that are critical to the structural and eating qualities you probably will not be able to replicate the same results with the substitution . In the end , it will often be a case of " what is the next best thing " and realizing there will be quality differences in the finished product .
Baking soda also raises the PH of the product resulting in better browning . Soda can be left out . Many recipes - especially for chewier cookies - do n't call for any leavening besides the eggs . <URL> Cookie recipes often call for the dough to be chilled so that it spreads less in the oven before it sets . This creates a taller , less crispy cookie . Cookie recipes do n't typically have very much water in them for the soda to dissolve into . Much of the water is tied up in the butter and wo n't be available until the dough melts in the oven .
You want to use baking soda . Baking powder is used as a leavening agent and does this by combining an acid and a base , so it would not make your chicken more alkaline . Baking soda , on the other hand is just sodium bicarbonate and will make your chicken more alkaline . However , baking soda , especially if used in excessive amounts , will give your chicken a bad taste . Baking soda tastes bitter , and cooking it for too long at high heat exacerbates that . From reading online , it seems that adding baking soda will indeed make your chicken look much browner ( the same way that pretzels are dipped in lye to produce their brown colour ) , but it would affect the texture/taste of your chicken . If you want to add more flavour , I would think that properly browning the chicken ( using high heat , having patience ) would be more effective than adding baking soda , which might give the appearance , but not the taste .
All that is meant here by " turn out " is to take the mass that you have begun to mix in the bowl , and dump it all onto your ( floured ) counter to begin kneading . Turn out just means to dump . To move .
The most accurate substitution would simply be <URL> . It is concentrated rum with a huge kick of flavor , and much less alcohol . A little goes a long way . If you 're going to stick with a strong liquor my first choice would be a <URL> , it 's a similarly " sweet " liquor that tastes good in baking . Another good option would be <URL> . If you 're avoiding liquor , then you may be able to use vanilla extract . Non-alcoholic varieties are available . According to <URL> you can also use molasses thinned with pineapple juice . The rum is used simply for flavor .
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
Ah , you missed the obvious : pumpkin ! This is biologically a fruit , actually , as is the zucchini . Pumpkin loves same spices as carrot . Maybe even rum or butterscotch too . Now , beetroot is a veg and colors cakes delectably ; perhaps why it was originally added when going stingy on the cocoa . How about parsnip next ? Sweet and nutty , I think pistachios would complement it well in a recipe borrowed from zucchini bread . more veg here : <URL> p.s. if you have n't guessed Rabarber is rhubarb
Your clarification means a lot -- " baked " potato in the U.S. tends to be a whole potato cooked on its own , where the insides become fluffy and creamy , and is done with larger starchy white potatoes , or sweet potatoes work well , too . Roasted potatoes , on the other hand , tends to be ( in the U.S. ) be smaller " new " potatoes , waxy potatoes , or even larger starchy potatoes cut up ( eg , ' oven fries ' ) . The starchy potatoes only really hold up well when roasting if it 's very high heat or a short amount of time -- if you 're going to be cooking them with the roast as there 's going to be moisture in there , I 'd go for a waxy potato ( eg , Red Bliss ) . As for the browning -- probably coat them well with oil , and if they 're not brown enough for your liking when you pull the roast , as you 're going to have to rest it anyway , drain the meat juices , crank the oven up to somewhere around 450F ( 230C ) and leave the potatoes in for a few extra minutes . ps . yes , I know a sweet potato is n't a potato . And I also tend to use Yukon Gold for just about everything , as it makes great baked potatoes , and roasted potatoes ( although , not sure how well with a roast at the same time ) and they 're good in pot roast and stews if you do n't add them too early .
<URL> : 6 months at best quality . In my personal experience , it can last much longer and be just fine , though I think the longest I ever kept a box was a couple years , not 5 years like riotburn . StillTasty suggests that the concern after more than 6 months is lost potency , but I believe the potential to take on odors from the surroundings is much more of a concern ; store it in something airtight like you said , and you should be pretty safe from that . So I 'm sure it 'll last at least until next Christmas . And if you do get into baking , you might go through a box faster than you 'd think . Otherwise , it 's fortunately pretty cheap , and it does have other uses ( e.g. cleaning ) so it wo n't hurt you too much to just go for it .
It does n't matter in which modality ( banking , simmering ) you bring the meatballs up to temperature , only that you do . Normally , if you are cooking them in the oven first , it is for browning generate additional flavor . Otherwise , you could simply simmer them from the beginning , which is perfectly viable .
I have looked extensively and it seems that whether to boil or steam is determined by region and it is as subjective as the fillings used . See below from this <URL> . Other variations include using black instead of white glutinous rice , or precooking the rice and filling , or steaming instead of boiling , or even wrapping into a cylindrical shape or a flat paddle shape instead of a pyramidal one . You may be able to make a decision based on certain factors of your recipe . For example : Some recipes call for the rice to be soaked while others call for it to be cooked . If I was using soaked rice I would probably choose boiling as the zongzi may become too dry with steaming . Same idea for other ingredients . Another consideration would be how well the zongzi are wrapped . If they are wrapped very skillfully , either way could work . However , if not , the filling could come out much easier with boiling . So , in the end , I would say that there really is n't a really definitive answer . I think I would use the method called for in the recipe as there may be specific reasons the prescribed cooking method was chosen .
<URL> list chili powder as : 2 tablespoons paprika 2 teaspoons oregano 1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 3/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste ( optional ) There are other mixtures , but this one seem basic enough . The " heat " comes from the cayenne pepper . The other spices round out the flavor . So I 'd mix everything but the cayenne pepper and use that mixture to cut your present chili powder .
Removing things from the oven halfway through is not very friendly to baked goods . In general , they 'll collapse as they cool off since the structure is n't cooked and set , and the leavening ( baking soda/powder in these cases ) will be spent , so there 's no way to get what you originally wanted . It might be something like what 'd happen if you forgot the leavening in the first place . In general : if there 's only 5-15 minutes left , just leave it in , and the heat retained by the oven will take care of things . If it 's barely started - just beginning to get warm , not bubbling/rising much - probably best to take it out and wait to bake later , especially if it 's something that can survive waiting at room temperature . Anything else , leave it in and hope the power comes back ; it 's going to be ruined if you take it out and ruined if the power does n't come back on so you might as well go for it . So for example , cookies could probably survive this by leaving them in . They do n't have very long baking times - somewhere in the 5-15 minute range . Your oven wo n't cool off all that much in that time without power . So if you leave them in for a little bit longer than the original baking time , they 'll probably be fine . If your oven has a window , look in with a flashlight to check on them - you do n't want to open it to check them . A cake is iffier . If it 's 15 minutes into a 45 minute baking time , you may just be out of luck . I think I 'd still leave it in , hoping that the power comes back within 5-10 minutes , in which case it 'd probably make it . As I mentioned earlier , if you lose power early and for long enough , the cake will have spent its leavening and collapsed . You could finish baking it , but it 'll still be collapsed - it probably wo n't have a terribly palatable texture ( definitely dense , maybe chewy ) . The only time this has actually happened to me was with some cornbread muffins , around 2/3 of the way through their baking time , and the oven did n't have a window . I wildly guessed how much extra time to add , pulled them out then , and they were great . So there is hope !
You need to <URL> . Be aware that your flavors will be affected . Make sure it 's double-acting baking powder and you must replace the acidic liquid in recipe with non-acidic liquid . You could also use some heartburn medicine that contained potassium bicarbonate :-)
The magic word is " water " - the dough needs sufficient moisture to stay moist while it expands to one big pocket and enough to generate the steam to make that pocket . Most people when doing doughs make them too dry because they 're easier to work with . As the dough rests , it will pull together more . Ideally make your doughs for this kind of bread slightly wetter than you think and then check it after its been mixed for 30 minutes or so . Additionally , as you knead and then in the fermentation stage it will firm up some . Difference in water content of the dough causes many of the consistencies for bakers . It will also depend on how much it dries after its been rolled so thin - keep it covered . Alternatively , if you 've put your first one in and found out its too dry , then try <URL> and let it rest there for 5 minutes or so . I tested batches with spritzing and without , and so long as there 's enough water in your dough and the oven is hot enough to make the steam - it does n't seem to matter . Every one came out perfect .
Clarified butter is rather simple to make . It 's simply butter that has had the milk solids and water removed . It does last longer than regular butter , and can be stored for several weeks in the refrigerator . It also has a higher smoke point than regular butter , so you can use it when higher temperatures are called for without it smoking or burning . Slowly melt your butter and let it sit for a bit to separate Skim off the foam from the top Gently pour the butter off of the milk solids which have settled You 'll be left with about 75 % of what you started with . I 'm not sure what you mean by huge batch , but I usually make about a sticks worth at a time , as needed .
There are two reasons ( that have also been discussed in many other questions ) Baking powder is n't just sodium bicarbonate + acid . It often also contains aluminum compounds that release gas when they are heated . That means they will make bubbles not just when the batter is mixed but also when it is baking . Baking powder is ph neutral while baking soda is basic . Recipes will often include mostly baking powder with some soda to neutralize acidic ingredients . See also : <URL>
end question
start question
Why is supermarket bread soft ?
I do n't know much of the science behind the super-soft bread on supermarket shelves , but I can give some insight into the history that led to it becoming so ubiquitous in the US . The idea that whiter breads are classier than darker breads goes all the way back to the 5th century BC . The belief that white bread was superior to dark bread , a common theme in many cultures over the ages , was already taking hold in Greece by the 5th century BC . Darker , denser breads made from barley or rye were the breads of the poor . White breads were believed to be pure , more refined , more cultured . They cost more too , since growing wheat was more labor-intensive than other grains . And on top of that , removing the bran and the germ to make wheat flour white instead of brown increased the work and the cost still further . Interestingly , up until the 17th century there were even separate baker 's guilds for bakers of white breads and brown breads . This prejudice against darker breads generally continued all the way until the 1960 's , when growing health consciousness finally seemed to turn the tide . From <URL> The desire for soft came a bit later ( same source ) : I 've often wondered why bread baking in this country-descended as it is from the great European traditions-turned so ... let 's say ... soft . The decline of good bread baking may have had its roots in the 18th century . The introduction of pan baking made bread softer and puffier . In the 19th century a distaste for " sourness " ( ironically the same " sourness " that makes San Francisco sourdough and other sourdoughs so great ) led to the introduction of baking soda to bread , which made it puffier still . In the 1870 's industrial milling techniques were introduced . Flour became whiter and whiter , and " deader " - bakers began adding sugar to get yeasts to react as they had in the past , and bread got puffier still . Bread continued to get sweeter and puffier , until finally in the 1920 's , we reached the pinnacle of puffiness-Wonder Bread . It 's with the birth of Wonder Bread things really take a turn for the insiped . Did you know you can squeeze an entire loaf into a ball the size of a tennis ball ? I once know a guy who never missed an opportunity to show off that little stupid-human-trick ... but I digress ... Alexander Taggart , the founder of Wonder Bread , was a marketing genius . In the 1890s he sold the first company that he had built to The United States Baking Company and he accepted stock in The United States Baking Company as a part of the purchase price . The United States Baking Company subsequently became a part of the National Biscuit Company . You might know that company by another name , Nabisco . So at this point he owned a chunk of Nabisco , but he sold that to start another baking company , the Taggart Baking Company , out of Indianapolis , Indiana . At first he zeroed in on the large number of German immigrants in the area , and prior to WWI he advertised heavily in German language newspapers using a Puritan logo : From <URL> This was a good time to own a baking company in the USA . Between the start of the century and the end of WWI , the market was burgeoning . between 1899 and 1919 the value of bread and bakery products produced in Indiana grew 620 % . Americans were rapidly growing richer , and they could afford to replace labor-intensive homemade goods with manufactured alternatives . - <URL> But events of the era were causing a shift in the attitudes of American consumers . The war and its aftermath caused a tremendous amount of discrimination against German immigrants , and in Indiana , Germans were plentiful enough that there was a significant backlash to those attitudes . To make matters worse , Protestants in Indiana were banding together against Catholics , and the KKK was getting hugely powerful in state politics ( an interesting bit of history in its own right <URL> ) . Our marketing genius knew just how to capitalize on the social unrest . In 1921 the Taggart Company had a new wrapping technique that could keep bread fresh for several days , and set about to rebrand the product.The new Taggart bread would n't carry religious or ethnic connotations that could hinder it 's sales , or even falsely identify itself with the work of Puritan mothers -- it was going to be better . It was going to be from the mechanized world of the future , a utopian world with factories suspended from the clouds by the thread of their smoke ; bridges with the leap of gymnasts ... and the gliding flight of aeroplanes whose propellers sound like the flapping of a flag and the applause of enthusiastic crowds -- a vision outlined in Filippo Marinetti 's Futurist Manifesto , published in 1909 . The new Wonder Bread did n't suggest hearth and home . On the contrary , the unnaturally vibrant colors of the logo and visual purity of this new , virgin white , 1.5 pound loaf perfectly evoked the otherworldliness of the enormous manufacturing system that was seen as America 's future . - <URL> It was the righ
Rubbery chicken is normally a sign that it is overcooked . Frying is a challenging method to cook chicken , because it is very rapid , and easy to overcook the chicken . Some of this , you will simply learn by experience , based on the typical size of the parts you are frying , and the type of breading you use . You will learn to recognize from the pattern of bubbles and how the breading looks when it is done . In the mean time , if you have a quality instant read thermometer , you can take a piece out and measure its temperature . White meat should be about 158 - 160 F , dark meat about 165 - 170 F ( depending on your preference ) .
The most recent Cook 's Illustrated has a cinnamon swirl bread article that discusses this problem . According to them , the root cause is a lack of binding between the dough and filling . Gas from the yeast , and steam generated during baking , push into the spiral , creating pressure that compresses the dough and widens the gap . In the specific case of cinnamon bread , they recommend using powdered ( confectioner 's ) sugar instead of granulated , and using a large amount of cinnamon . The finer sugar dissolves more easily in moisture from the bread , quickly creating a paste that is reinforced by the cornstarch and by starches in the ground cinnamon . Misting the bread before adding the filling also helps . In order to make a sausage filling adhere to the bread , you would need a sticky , water-soluble element . Cornstarch or powdered gelatin spring to mind immediately as possibilities . The other tactic they employ is to actually expose the filling during proofing , preventing the yeast 's gas ( and later , steam ) from building up alongside the filling . Once the filling is rolled into the dough , the loaf is cut in half lengthwise . With the two halves laid side-by-side , cut face up ( exposing the filling ) , they are wound around each other , folding the left piece over the right until the end is reached ( this is called a " Russian braid " ) . The ends are pinched together , and the loaf is placed in the pan to proof . This , obviously , should help with any kind of filling , not just cinnamon sugar .
The flip answer is that sauteed food will taste good , and the microwaved version you 're describing will not . A more useful answer , however , would consider physics and chemistry . Microwaving excites molecules , resulting in heat , presuming an adequate supply of water molecules to excite . Sauteeing conducts heat from the heat source to the food by way of the pan . Microwaving falls somewhere between radiant heating ( like an oven ) and steaming , though the results from conventional methods are generally superior . Sauteeing can transfer enough heat quickly enough that desirable effects like caramelization and similar effects like browning are effected with the help of fats and sugars ( often referred to as a <URL> ) , which produces volatile compounds that are very aromatic and contribute a lot to our perception of flavor . It 's exceptionally hard to create the same effects with a microwave .
I 'd say your problem is that the yeast has exhausted the food in the dough before you even get the leftover dough in the fridge . When you pull it out the next morning , the yeast does nothing or very little because there are no more sugars left for it to eat . And not only will this prevent rising , it will also limit browning because it 's at least partly the sugars that brown in the oven . You could work some more flour ( and water , to maintain hydration ) into your dough as yeast food -- maybe even a little sugar if you want -- and then rise/form/rise and bake . But at that point you 're doing what @tmow suggests -- just using your pizza dough as a starter for new bread .
it 's possible that the heat only comes from the burner/element at the bottom . Especially if you have a gas oven . Try bufferring the bottom of the bread with a pizza stone . A terracotta clay pot saucer , or practically any unglazed natural stone tile can substitute . Marble or granite are not ok .
Sugar is not really a wet ingredient , it 's just treated as one in certain types of baking ( i.e. cakes ) . When making a cake or other " fluffy " baked good , you want a fairly small amount of gluten to be produced , otherwise you 'll get a chewy texture instead , and you definitely do n't want a cake to be chewy like bread . Dissolving sugar in the water inhibits the gluten-forming proteins . It 's a method ( actually , the method ) of adding more liquid to the mix without getting a tough , chewy cake . It is for this reason that sugar is considered a " wet ingredient " - because the process only works properly if you add it with the water , not with the other dry ingredients . It 's even possible for sugar to be a dry and wet ingredient in the same recipe ; you might add just enough sugar to the water to get the right texture , and add more to the dry ingredients for further sweetening .
I always use the hard ones and they contribute to a good end result . I guess with the soft ones it can end up soggy . The hard ones will absorb the liquids and will get a little softer , so the end result wo n't break down immediately .
Probably the easiest way to do it is to just gently pour the blackberries into a basket strainer , then lower the strainer into a bowl of water . Then you can just lift the strainer out and the berries will come with it , no fishing required .
It is because of the way starch retrogrades . It does so in stages . The first stage needs between 1 and 2 hours , the second one a few days . You have probably seen it more clearly in starch-thickened puddings : they thicken a bit on stovetop , but are only ready to unmold after a few hours , else they wuold n't keep their shape . In a bread , the starch granules are the same way : right after baking , they contain too much moisture . Sure , if you eat the bread right away , the aroma is very good . But the texture is problematic . It gets doughy and dense at the smallest amount of pressure . Tearing instead of cutting helps a bit . And if you are at home , eating with your family , go for it and eat the tasty still-hot bread . It is especially good with soft , low-gluten breads made with AP flour with the least amount of bran ( 50 % milling grade or even less ) , my grandma would say that they " melt in the mouth " when they are hot . But if you serve bread slices to guests , or want to spread something on the bread , wait for its starch to set . On a side note , the second stage of starch retrogradation is the reason why you should use day-old bread for crumbs for thickening , and the third stage is the one which makes bread inedible . But this goes too far away from the original question .
First of all , visual similarity has little to no importance in cooking . The way an item is handled depends on its texture , taste , flavor and interaction with other ingredients , and it is rare that these are connected among similar looking substances . When it happens , it is because they are related chemically , physically or biologically , not because they look alike . Now on to the lettuce , and why we do n't need to cook it . There are a few reasons why we cook vegetables . Because they are too hard to chew comfortably . That one does n't apply to lettuce , it has very tender leaves . In fact , once you cook it , it goes not from hard to soft ( as does a , say , carrot ) , but from tender to limp . On the other hand , it can be useful for cabbage . Try to wolf down a salad made from cabbage only , especially if you are a medieval peasant with no access to a mandoline ( so your wife did n't cut it up in 2.5 mm stripes , but hacked as good as she could with whatever knife she had ) . It is possible , but requires much more jaw work than spooning coleslaw . Because we want to mellow their taste . Joe 's answer covers this , there is n't much reason to mellow the taste of lettuce . Because we want to neutralize toxins or irritants . Plants like beans and potatoes come to mind in this category , but this does n't apply to lettuce ( neither to cabbage ) . To kill off germs . Traditionally , this has n't been a concern with most vegetables . Because we like a filling , warm meal . This is by no means a universal preference , but the more you get into the North , the more likely it is that the main meal is served warm . Cabbage makes for an excellent main meal for said peasant - easy to grow in abundance , relatively carbohydrate rich , especially before starchy crops like potatoes and maize got widespread . It is also easily preserved for the winter ( and after imperfect home fermentation , the taste mellowing part becomes important ) . So it is frequently cooked to soups or casseroles . Lettuce , on the other hand , is not really a main meal . It has much less calories per volume , and also per unit of cultivated land . So it is eaten in addition to the main , filling meal , not as a main part of it . So there is no need to make it warm too . Note that there are examples for cooked leaf soups without much calories , but these are poor man 's food , and made from leaves usually foraged , not cultivated ( nettle , sorrel , dock ) . They are used more as a diversion against hunger than actually stilling it , when there are no resources for better ( = more caloric ) food . They do deliver micronutrients though . I do n't know why lettuce is n't commonly used this way , but I suspect that there is no wild lettuce in the places where nettle and sorrel are eaten . Of these , only spinach seems to have survived the cultural shift to centralized food production . Because it is a structural part of some cooked dish . Other answers mention wrappers . Its shape lets it be used in this way , but it is a poor wrapper , both tastewise and in terms of durability , leaf size and thermal isolation . Wherever you live , you are likely to have a better wrapper lying around . As the other answers mention , it does get cooked from time to time . But it is more of a whim , or a wish for diversity I guess . None of the usual reasons for cooking other vegetables applies to it . You can still cook it if you want to , but it is better suited for a fresh salad appilcation .
I 've seen bread recipes like the one that you described . When bread is baked in an oven with steam - the starch in the crust is able to gelatinize before it all dries out and becomes crispy . This is what makes the crust crisp , shiny , and delicious - characteristic of " artisan " breads . Most people do n't have steam enhanced ovens ( or the ability to hack their oven to add steam : <URL> ) The recipe you linked has water added for steam but then takes out extra insurance ( they cheat ) by adding the cornstarch glaze to mimic the effect . By adding extra , pure , starch on the surface of the loaf more gelatinization occurs . Additionally , cornstarch gelatinizes at a lower temperature that wheat starch . Conceivably , you should be able to use any starch and see similar results but , in the US at least , cornstarch is by far the most common . It should n't be necessary if you are able to produce enough steam in your oven .
I have not found that there is a definitive answer , the most common I know is that it depends on what you like for a pizza dough . I know many people who use a common bread dough for pizza . I personally find that too " bready " , but they like it that way . When I first learned , I was taught use a basic french bread recipe and add a couple Table Spoons of oil then allow to rise in cool environment rather than warm . Many use a higher gluten flour , but if you prefer a more cracker like thin crust then whole grain and a extra pinch a salt and immediately cook after rolling out with only one rise . If you like a thicker , chewy crust , then I suggest letting the dough do a second 10-15 minute rise after you have it ready for toppings but before you put them on . Most times what many of us consider a better pizza crust , regardless of if we like thin , thick , crispy , chewy , or some odd combo is one with smaller fermentation bubbles which calls for slower rising than bread . Higher gluten , a more elastic knead , a bit extra oil and a pinch of salt can all help get this . Starting with a regular break dough would restrict you down to only being able to go with a slower rise in my mind .
It 's to prevent caking . See , for example , <URL> : It is not recommended to substitute confectioners sugar for granulated sugar . Since confectioners sugar has a much finer texture , and it contains a small percentage of cornstarch to prevent caking , substituting can give you unexpected results . Many shredded cheeses include corn starch for the same reason .
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
Do n't use the pizza stone for cookies . Stones absorb a ton of your oven 's heat and will really mess up your baking times . They 're designed to be preheated in your oven before you ever put a pizza ( or other item ) on them . I have never tried it before but you might be able to use the pizza stone if you preheated it but then you have to put your cookies on a hot surface which may cause them to misbehave in other ways . Cookies should be baked on light-toned heavy-duty metal baking sheets ( or as close as you can get to that ) because the metal transfers the heat , it does n't absorb it . That 's how you get well-baked cookies .
Marbling From my experience working in butcher shops , you want to first look for good marbling ( unless you are on a low fat diet ) . To illustrate : I prefer personally anywhere between No. 5 and No. 8 . No. 9 and up I find a bit excessive , though some people like it that way . I have had some below No. 5 and they were still good , though . Dry-aging From <URL> The process changes beef by two means . Firstly , moisture is evaporated from the muscle . This creates a greater concentration of beef flavor and taste . Secondly , the beef 's natural enzymes break down the connective tissue in the muscle , which leads to more tender beef . Some higher-end butcher shops will dry-age their own beef ( at considerable expense ) but if you do n't have a shop nearby that does that , you can also <URL> . Other things I would recommend not to marinate fillet mignon and season it only lightly . If you plan on wrapping it in bacon , as many do , if you wrap it a day or even a few hours ahead of time the meat will absorb more of the smokiness of the bacon .
The flavor you want is from the high heat of the clay oven ( around 900F , much like a wood-fired pizza oven ) . Probably nothing you can do to truly replicate it at home , but here are some things to try : Use a pizza stone in the oven , and turn the oven to MAX , as hot as it will go ( above 500F ) . Let it preheat for 45 min at least to get the stone to full heat . Put the dough right on the stone ( either by hand - risky but traditional , or with a pizza peel or upside down sheet pan covered in corn meal ) . The naan will cook much quicker , maybe 3-5 minutes at most . If you can get the oven hot enough , you 'll get a little of the " char " that is part of the flavor . After mixing the ingredients , let the dough rest overnight in the fridge . The next day , pull it out , let it warm to room temp and resume the proofing process . That will let more sugars be created from enzymes converting starch to sugar , and will slightly improve browning ( part of the flavor you are looking for ) . Of course , if you want to get fun , you could look into one of the many tutorials on building a wood-fired oven in your yard . Lots of great baking to be had there , including a more traditional naan bread . For more tips , read up on all the things people do to their home ovens to bake better pizza - they will all apply to clay oven baking as well . Things like hearth inserts , faking out the " cleaning cycle " and other tips are common . Based on comments and some more thinking , my first recommendation would be a grill - charcoal if you have it , gas if you do n't . The procedure would be similar to making grilled pizza ( well described in Peter Reinhart 's " American Pie " ) . Using a charcoal grill with hardwood charcoal , a dough that is stiff enough to not immediately slide through the grate on your grill ( may mean slightly less water in your dough ) , and making sure to brush the surface of the dough with oil or ghee before flopping down on the grill , you could probably get even closer to the clay oven . It still is n't the same thing , but you might get more of the smoky charred flavors you seek .
After a few experiments , I found the lessening the concentration of the cure left the meat undercured and still salty , whereas a soak eased out the excess salt of the already-cured beef .
The nature of deep frying , contrary to expectation , is that it is a dry cooking method . The heat from the oil vaporizes water at the surface of the food . The steam coming of the food pushes the oil away from the food , and keeps oil from soaking in during the main frying process . This is also what causes the bubbling . The consequence of this is that by its very nature , deep frying rapidly dries out the surface of whatever is being cooked . From some foods , including some meats , this would leave the outside of the meat dry , tough , and rubbery . A coating of breading prevents this by providing a barrier between the hot frying oil and the meat . The breading itself also browns , which adds flavor and crunchiness that can greatly enhance the appeal of the food item . It may also have spices or other flavors or seasonings in the breading to compliment the food . Still , not all meats have to be breaded before deep frying . For example , chicken wings are often deep fried plain . The skin browns and bubbles and gets very crispy . So , the main reasons for breading are : Protect the food product Add brown , delicious crunch Add flavor through other seasonings
end question
start question
Is " instant flour " worth bothering with ?
Instant flour has the advantage of speed and ease . You can pretty much always do without - but for home cooks in a hurry , it can be an easy solution . Its used for sauces , but sometimes recommended for pastry work because of the ultra low protein content . Normally , when adding flour to a sauce you 'll need to make it into a slurry or roux and mix in correctly to avoid lumps . Then you 'll need to cook it for a bit to get rid of the ' flour taste ' . With instant flour , its just pour and stir - no clumps , no waiting . My understanding is that this is ultra low protein flour that as been flash hydrated , cooked ( possibly with steam ) , dehydrated , and then finely ground . This means its pretty much ' ready ' to use - it wo n't taste ' floury ' since its already been cooked and the superfine particles are supposed to not clump . ( It may also contain some malted barley flour as a dough conditioner ) . You could try ( this is just an idea ) making it at home by basically repeating the above process - steam cake flour , dehydrate , grind ... but I do n't know why you would . If you going to do all that , just make a slurry or roux or use cake flour . This <URL> lays out a few interesting uses . Using it for crepes because it will hydrate quicker . Using it for pastry work when you can get pastry flour and you do n't want the bleachness of cake flour .
The official answer from your health department is no , it 's not safe . After four hours at room temperature , you have to pitch it . That standard is a little on the paranoid side . Which is appropriate , since they have to protect people for whom a little salmonella is potentially life-threatening ( the infirm , babies , the elderly , etc. ) If you 're young and healthy , the odds are it will do you no harm whatsoever . Even a glass of milk out overnight is merely going to be sour rather than toxic . So , it 's up to you . I 'd say it 's a cup of tea and it will taste better if you make a fresh one , even if the risk to your health is small-but-not-zero .
Robert Cartaino 's answer hits a main point : sourdough cultures are adapted to what they are typically fed . When switching flours , it may take a while for the culture to adjust . The starter may seem a bit sluggish at first . That said , I would NOT recommend trying to start a wheat culture if you already have a healthy starter that began with rye . There are two main reasons . First , rye is particularly rich in certain sugars and food that natural yeasts tend to like , so rye starters naturally tend to look more " lively " than wheat starters , especially in the early stages of a starter . Part of what you may be seeing in your transition to wheat is simply less activity produced because the food source is less rich in nutrients , not necessarily because the yeast and bacteria ca n't digest it . Second , a lot of recipes to generate new starters recommend using rye at the beginning , regardless of what you ultimately plan to feed the starter . Because it provides a strong food source for young cultures , it 's usually a lot easier to begin with rye ( perhaps this is why you did ) . In my experience , it tends to take new wheat starters at least twice as long to get strongly established compared to rye , and there 's a higher chance of failure if you do n't use a good recipe . For both of these reasons , some people even recommend always feeding your starter with rye flour , even if you tend to make wheat-based bread . Since many people have success doing that ( and I have personally ) , I do n't think you need to begin a whole new culture with wheat alone . If your starter really is sluggish ( and not just a little less active than it was with rye ) , you can help your starter to adapt to the new food . I 'm not sure what your typical feeding routine is or what the hydration level of your starter is . But the general thing to do in these circumstances is to dilute your starter and feed it large quantities of the new food . For example , if you maintain 200 grams of your starter normally , I would discard all but maybe 40-50 grams and then add enough new flour and water to get back to 200 grams in whatever your usual proportion is . ( Some people would be even more extreme in diluting the starter and cut the starter proportion even further . ) Within a few days of feedings like this , you will have strongly selected the yeast and bacteria that thrive on whole wheat and your starter should be strong again . After a week of feedings like this , I doubt you could distinguish the performance of your starter from one that was begun on wheat . ( Note that the specific microorganisms may still be slightly different , but your starter should do a fine job raising dough and providing flavor . )
Flour labeled as Cake flour usually is weak flour : low value , or less formally " low protein " or " fewer gluten " . This is somehow weird , as some cakes will require weak flour , whether others nedd strong flour ( for yeasted dough cakes , if they add lots of fat/oil to the dough , if they add lots of sugar , pieces of fruits/nuts , etc ) . I specifically do n't know whether Maida is strong or weak flour , despite <URL> . Wheat plants has been selected for several milleniums to get more productive varieties , and , yes , grains that give stronger flour . Substitutes as weak flour Trying to get flour from a more " primitive " variety of wheat , such as <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . These are expensive where I live , and usually sold as bio , but maybe spelt is easily found in India . As they have not been so " genetically selected " , they still have less gluten than today 's " normal " flour . They also tend to have more and better taste than " normal " flour . Another flour with low gluten content is rye . It has a different taste than wheat , but I thing it fits really well with cakes . This grain grows better in colder climates , so I 'm not very sure how hard will it be to get it where you live . Other flours , as rice or corn / maize have no gluten . It means gas bubbles wo n't be trapped in , and will result in a much too dense crumb . You might search some gluten-free bread tricks to solve this . Substitutes as strong flour Any bread flour will probably work . Maybe it wo n't rise as much and you 'll get a crumb with a denser consistency , more similar to a " chewing gum " than a " soft cake " . But if you are ok with this , you can go on . Note ( Thank to @Anisha for the suggestion ) : Notice that different flours have different absorption , so some readjustment on hydration should probably be made to the original recipe .
In theory chakki is a flour mill , and chakki atta is flour fresh from that mill . Realistically of course nothing you find on your grocery store shelves is fresh from a mill . Atta flour is made from hard wheat , which has a high gluten content . This means that your flour is probably better for bread than typical all-purpose whole wheat flour from the baking aisle . If it is hard white wheat this might explain the color , as ground white wheat does n't look that much darker than all-purpose flour . Like typical grocery store whole wheat flour , atta flour is coarsely ground . This may give your bread a more grainy texture ( not a bad thing ) , and makes atta unideal for cakes , biscuits , and quick breads unless you like them with a coarse texture in the crumb . If you would like to use whole wheat for baking other than bread , whole wheat pastry flour is the usual suggestion ( or grind wheat yourself to a very find grind ) .
You have quite a bit of leeway with Instant Coffee . You can brew it using water of your desired temperature . I would recommend using water just below boiling point though , around 95-99 degrees Celsius . You could use 85-95 degrees Celsius water as well ; it wo n't make a big difference in terms of extraction of flavour , and here is why : How instant coffee is prepared in the factory : Coffee beans are roasted They are ground very finely ( 0.5 mm - 1.1 mm in diameter ) The ground coffee is mixed with water in percolation columns which reaches 155 - 180 degrees Celsius . This is the extraction process . This mixture is then concentrated and/or dried using vacuum evaporation , freeze drying , or spray drying methods . The result from this is what you get in the store . Conclusion : All of the very particular factors that one must consider when trying to make great coffee have already been decided for you . You have no control over roast , grind , time from grind to extraction , extraction time and temperature , or time from extraction to consumption . All of this been decided for you . It is up to you . Brew it at whatever temperature you like to drink your coffee at . However , it may be slightly harder to dissolve the coffee and get good flavor at cold temperatures . Keeping it on the hotter side may be better . That 's just chemistry though . Sources : I am a professional barista and coffee connoisseur . <URL>
" Filter " coffee in general , is coffee beans that have been roasted and ground and is for use in coffee making machines . This makes ' fresh ' coffee that may have a variety of qualities not found in instant - such as sweeter or more distinct flavours , etc. . " Instant " coffee is normally a coffee that has already been made ( they had the fun already ! ) and is dried ( usually through freezing ) into a dehydrated state , hence we just add water and get coffee . I would think that most people who have drunk proper ( freshly made ) coffee would prefer the flavour , quality and effects from caffeine , over that of instant . For me , instant is a back up , in case the real stuff runs out , but I feel always tastes a little woody and not as satisfying in terms of a caffeine hit . There are several coffees available now - Kenco Millicano is one - that offer both instant and some kind of coffee bean , but all I see is coffee grinds in the bottom of the cup , and not much difference in flavour .
Yes , of course you can keep flour in the freezer . For whole wheat flour , which is susceptible to rancidity due to the fat from the whole grain being included , it is even recommended . For white flour , according to the <URL> ( emphasis added ) : For longer storage , keep white flours in the refrigerator in an airtight container . All-purpose and bread flour will keep up to two years at 40 F in your refrigerator , according to the Wheat Foods Council . They can be stored indefinitely in the freezer .
One potential downside to this method is that with a thick coat of flour , you 're mostly browning the flour , not the meat , and thus possibly creating different flavor compounds than if you were searing the meat directly . <URL> are <URL> . If you 're doing this , you should probably shake off excess flour to leave a very thin layer so that you still get browning on the meat itself . The related problem is that you 're less able to accurately measure the amount of flour , less able to make sure it 's easily browned , and thus less able to control the overall balance of thickening power and flavor it contributes . Roux ( flour cooked in oil as a base for sauces ) <URL> , but <URL> as it cooks . You could monitor this over the surface of your meat , but that goes against the typical wisdom of not moving meat around the pan as it browns - that is , you ca n't see how browned the floury surface is getting when it 's face-down . Personally , I 'd prefer tighter control over both of these processes over the convenience gained by browning the meat and flour together . You can easily brown the meat , remove it from the pan , then add the flour and some additional oil to create a separate roux without losing much time . A slurry will work too , but takes plenty of cooking before it loses its raw , grainy flavor .
That is absolutely fine . 00 flour is super-overpriced here , so much so that it is hardly ever used . Semolina is often used on the pizza peel , but really not all that often in the dough itself . There are more recipes for pizza dough than probably anything else on the internet . Some use all-purpose flour , some use bread flour , and some use no wheat at all . You can get away anything with some experimentation . <URL> has some of the best instruction around on everything pizza . You do n't say where you are from , but know that " all-purpose " flour has a different meaning to some people in India , and will behave differently than the medium-gluten wheat flour that is " all-purpose " to most of us . That does n't mean you ca n't use <URL> ( what is sold in much of India as " all-purpose " flour ) , just that it will behave differently . There is no safety issue at all to mixing flour types . Assuming that the flours are safe individually , they will be safe combined .
( Disregard previous version : I did not notice this recipe had no wheat flour . ) This recipe gets all of its structure from oats . Instant oats are pre-hydrolized , so that they cook faster . Regular oats are just the natural oat , perhaps cut , and rolled flat . They need more moisture and time to hydrolize . The recipe will probably work , perhaps with a slightly different texture . They may bake faster due to the fact that the oats are already hydrolyzed . If you choose recipe where the structure comes from wheat flour , the type of oats will matter less .
You 're very correct the grinders are pretty pricey . I believe we paid about $ 300 for ours . There are a few good reasons for me to have a grinder . Whether they are good reasons for you is your call . 1 - I can grind whatever I want . Right now I am using hard white wheat . Unbleached , hard , white wheat flour is more expensive than your run-of-the-mill flour and comes in annoyingly small bags . I also grind beans , quinoa , oats , etc. . 2 - I can control the fineness of the grind . This is a minor thing but it is nice for me to be able to experiment with the texture of the product . In practice I usually leave it on the same setting but it is finer than the flour I can purchase . 3 - Wheat flour is very perishable . I go through a fair bit of flour . As much as 200 oz in a heavy week . In order to have enough wheat flour on hand for a couple weeks it would have to live in the freezer . I do n't want to waste that much freezer space . Whole wheat berries last almost indefinitely . 4 - I like the flavor better . It tastes fresher and more nutty . This may be imagined - I have n't done any double blind tests . I should do that . 5 - Cost - I had to do some of the maths as I do n't usually pay a lot of attention to this . King Arthur white wheat flour costs approximately $ 1.00 a lbs . I buy 25lbs bags of bulk white wheat for $ 12 - $ 15 or $ 0.50 - $ 0.60 a pound . If I use around 10 lbs of flour a week ( usually a little less , it varies ) I am saving about $ 5 a week . If you do n't have access to wheat that cheap or do n't make that much bread then of course the savings will be less . As for nutrition - I read all the time that the nutrients in whole wheat flour degrade very quickly . I 'm not a chemist but those results seem plausible to me based on how quickly the flour itself degrades in quality .
Put your flour in water . It should be slightly fizzy due to the presence of baking powder if it is active self raising flour . If it is plain it should react like normal flour .
Do n't worry too much about it . Be careful that some doughs are wet ( high hydration - look at my <URL> ) , so they tend to stick more and are harder to manage . If a dough is hard to manage , just let it sit in the fridge for a couple of hours . It will become tougher and easier to handle . If you keep on adding flour , this will alter the bread formula ( affecting the salt content and hydration ) , an additional percent or two flour wo n't make much of a difference .
In the type of recipe you reference , all of which are quick breads , the result is supposed to be tender , not chewy . Wheat flour has proteins in it , which if agitated in the presence of water , will combine to form a new protein , gluten , which is very chewy . Sometimes , this is desirable as in yeast raised bread , where the gluten forms the structure of the bread , and gives it its bite and chewiness . In fact , this is why ( most ) yeast raised breads are kneaded . Gluten development is not desirable in tender quick breads , like cornbread or banana bread . Biscuits are a type of quick bread where the lumps of butter will promote flakiness , but you still want a tender crumb . The flour and the liquids are combined as quickly as possible , with the least reasonably possible agitation , to minimize the development of gluten , and thus maximize tenderness . The idea of leaving some lumps is to help prevent over mixing , and thus toughening the product . Even if there are some small lumps of unmixed flour , the liquid from the batter will penetrate them in a few minutes during baking , and they will not be a factor in the final product .
Add the water incrementally . It 's probably enough to add just a bit , stir , then add the rest , but you can break it up a bit more if that does n't work . A clump of powder or a lump of paste wo n't dissolve easily into water , but it 's easy enough to add a little water to it and thin it out . So the idea is to work your way up from powder to paste to thinner paste to liquid . This is a good idea for all kinds of things where you start with a powder or a thick paste , not just instant soup .
I use a liquid oil instead of a spray oil ; you 're far more likely to get hot spots with a spray , which is bad for any kind of cooking . That stuff works better as a grease than an actual cooking oil . I also tend to have pretty good success by frying the tortillas up to just a hint of golden-brown ( dark brown spots is overdone ) and then finishing it off ( i.e. to melt the cheese ) in a low-heat oven . As an added benefit , if you 're making a largish batch then that makes it easy to keep them warm until they 're all ready to serve . YMMV , but I find this to be the case for a whole lot of stovetop cooking ; with the direct heat , it 's very easy to dry foods out before they 're cooked to the stage you want . It 's far easier to control the heat in an oven and just use the stove for an initial ( or final ) fry/sear .
No , flour and starch are very different things . Starch is a molecule consisting of a chain of glucose rings . It is one of the main ways plants store energy . In practice , it is extracted from many different grains and tubers such as potato , wheat , tapioca and corn . Flour is a food ingredient made from milling a grain very finely , and frequently also removing the outer hull of the grain . If nothing else is specified , saying just " flour " denotes non-whole-grain wheat flour . It so happens that starch is a molecule present in large amount in many flours . Wheat flour is about 90 % starch , and rice flour is close to 100 % . But it is still incorrect to assume interchangeability , for the same reason that " pan " and " iron " are not interchangeable words even when you are holding a pan made from 100 % iron . In the cases where starch is less than 100 % , it is even worse to use the terms interchangeably , because the parts which are present in a smaller amount often determine the properties of the flour , making it act much differently than pure starch in the kitchen . For example , white wheat flour contains around 10 % gluten , which allows you to make risen bread with it . Update As for interchangeable usage : There are a few corner cases , as Jolenealaska 's comment point out . For example , there are applications where you only need the properties of pure starch , but you can substitute a flour which is not 100 % starch , and the remaining ingredients wo n't get into the way . Thickening is one such application , another one is preventing dough from sticking . But in general , you can not assume that starch can be substituted for flour or the other way round . You 'd have to know how it works in your recipe so you can judge if the substitution is possible . As for the word use , some starches do n't need to be extracted by a special process , because the plant part in question already consists of starch and nothing else . They are produced by milling this plant part , and they are both a flour and a starch at the same time . The prevalent use of the word " starch " or " flour " is then a matter of cultural accident , and , as David Richerby notes , it can happen that different languages or dialects pick a different term , but this happens rarely . The terms are usually distinct and not ambiguous , especially for plants where you use both , such as wheat flour and wheat starch . Appendix : nitty gritty details on the special case of corn The corn flour case is a very complicated one . There you have many words whose meaning can overlap : corn starch is only the milled inner part of the kernel . It is a flour which is also a starch . It can be modified , and then it should n't be technically considered a flour any more . cornflour is the UK term for the milled inner part of the corn kernel , as David Richerby points out . However , in many countries the word ( or its literal translation ) is used for whole grain corn flour , which is yellow , and chemically has other ingredients than pure starch . the milled whole corn kernel is sometimes also called polenta . polenta also can be a word for corn semolina , which is also a milled kernel , but the particle size is larger than a flour . yet another meaning of polenta is a pap cooked from a milled whole kernel of either size ( semolina or flour ) . the pap cooked from pure corn starch is never a polenta , it is a pudding or blanchmange . These words are also used when the pap is cooked from pure starch extracted from another plant .
I am not a chemist , but my grandma always used to make bread ( and similar stuff ) with sparkling water instead of still water . She always mentioned that the result will be more fluffy and airy . This only addresses the question about the ( important ) consistency though , but I guess you should just try it out yourself . Edit : Some benefits of using sparkling water in the kitchen As this answer got downvoted to zero I guess my grandma was not convincing enough . So I asked a befriended chef who works at a luxury hotel chain in Germany . Here 's what he explained : Desserts can be made more creamy without actually adding cream . Here he gave examples of pudding/mousse-ish desserts Vegetables steamed with sparkling water results in less loss of color ( i.e. brighter colors ) , more crispyness , and stronger taste . He particularly recommended to try it with carrots , broccoli or cauliflower . You can add sparkling water to thick soups shortly before serving to get them more foamy . Similar with Salad dressings Last but not least he confirmed precisely what my grandma said . For doughs and similar stuff ( for salty or sweet dishes ) you would get a nice fluffy texture . Kudos to my grandma at this point .
You can absolutely do this . I do it in <URL> , for example . A good trick to boost the flavor even farther is to add non-fat milk powder to the butter as it browns , to supply even more protein for the Maillard reactions .
end question
start question
How long should I knead bread dough by hand ?
Time is n't the main factor , gluten development is . You should knead the dough until the gluten is sufficiently developed to give the dough elasticity , and the final bread good structure . There are two simple tests you can perform to check whether your dough is kneaded sufficiently . First , the Poke Test . Form the dough into a ball , and with a floured finger , give it a light poke . If it springs back to its original shape , you 're on the right track . Secondly , you can do the Windowpane Test . Grab off a chunk of dough , then try and stretch it apart . If the gluten is sufficiently developed , the dough should n't tear - it should stretch to a point where you can see light through it , hence the name .
Kneading dough has a few functions . First , it distributes the ingredients together evenly and allows the flour to become hydrated . As the flour starts to absorb water , enzymatic reactions occur and some proteins begin to mesh together . The two most important in this process are glutenin and gliadin . When these proteins start to get tangled up together , they form gluten , which is the protein that allows bread dough to stretch and trap gas bubbles produced by yeast . These reactions will occur on their own to an extent , as in no-knead recipes , but kneading accelerates the process . Kneading also allows you to control the texture of the bread . A vigorous knead can help to produce a bread with a fine crumb as the kneading an tighten the gluten , keeping the air bubbles more uniform . Doing short kneading periods ( or folds ) spaced by time for the dough to relax and rise can give you more extensible dough which can help give you a more open crumb structure . Finally , kneading is sometimes used to add inclusions to the dough that would disrupt it 's activity if added to early . This can be things like seeds , which would cut gluten strands if included too early in the process , or things like butter in a brioche , which would shorten the dough if included before the gluten had already developed .
You did n't say what kind of dough you are thinking about , so I 'll try to give a bit of an overview first : With most doughs , the way you handle it will influence the development of gluten . Roughly stated : more handling/stretching equals more/longer strands and more density . Type 1 : Pie crust , shortbread , bisquits etc. . You want to avoid excessive development of gluten as it would make the result tough instead of light and flaky . So we aim for as little handling as possible , " cut " or " rub " the fat into the flour and add liquids at the end with only a quick stir . Use of a rolling pin would counteract this approach , so no use here . Some people will even avoid re-rolling this type of dough whenever possible . Type 2 : Bread etc. . Here , the gluten strands will trap the co2 developed by the yeast , thus enabling the bread to rise . The type of strands can be influenced by the method of kneading . If you go " round and round " , either in a mixer or by hand , you 'll get lots of small bubbles , giving your bread a uniform texture inside . If you do a " stretch and fold " ( usually repeated a few times during the first rise ) you get longer , aligned strands and large bubbles . With each method , the dough will be way to sticky to use a rolling pin , at least at the beginning . Most doughs will become less sticky when the gluten strands have started to form . ( My great-aunt always said " it 's ready when it cleans the bowl and your hands " . ) That 's the point where the rolling pin could be used theoretically . Usually that 's after the first rise , when you knead gently again , then shape . I 'd strongly advise against the use of a rolling pin here because a few things are likely to happen : a ) you might " burst " too many co2 bubbles , b ) you are likely to work too much extra flour into the dough , because your hands " feel " when it starts to stick , the pin does n't , c ) you actually are n't supposed " flatten " the dough , rather gently stretch it somewhat , then fold over to the middle and just press to make it stick onto itself again ( to quote my great-aunt again : " Handle it roughly first , gently later . " ) . And you will use your hands anyway to move the dough , so why clean the pin , too ? Type 3 : Pasta dough This is actually one type of dough where the use of a rolling pin might be an option . Based on flour and very little liquid , pasta dough needs to be kneaded rather firmly and longer , because the development of gluten strands is somewhat inhibited due to the " dryness " of the dough . The pin could give you the leverage your hands do n't . Some people roll the dough a few times through the pasta machine on the wide setting before shaping it , too .
I have not found that there is a definitive answer , the most common I know is that it depends on what you like for a pizza dough . I know many people who use a common bread dough for pizza . I personally find that too " bready " , but they like it that way . When I first learned , I was taught use a basic french bread recipe and add a couple Table Spoons of oil then allow to rise in cool environment rather than warm . Many use a higher gluten flour , but if you prefer a more cracker like thin crust then whole grain and a extra pinch a salt and immediately cook after rolling out with only one rise . If you like a thicker , chewy crust , then I suggest letting the dough do a second 10-15 minute rise after you have it ready for toppings but before you put them on . Most times what many of us consider a better pizza crust , regardless of if we like thin , thick , crispy , chewy , or some odd combo is one with smaller fermentation bubbles which calls for slower rising than bread . Higher gluten , a more elastic knead , a bit extra oil and a pinch of salt can all help get this . Starting with a regular break dough would restrict you down to only being able to go with a slower rise in my mind .
I mix dough in my kitchenAide all the time , and this happens all the time , so through the process I check the consistency and dryness and I 've developed a feel for the " just right formula " , but being ADHD I do n't go in with precise measurements each time , but that would be a good idea once perfection is found . So anywho , I take a strong spatula from time to time and cut it of the hook , to give it a nice restart with hook on outside of dough ball . but your dough needs to be dry enough that it is cleaning itself off the bowl and it will the hook too . It 's designed to find that perfect balance so that it starts wet and sticky and then as the gluten starts to web it becomes self cleaning , and the kneading is drying it a little or maybe the material is absorbing the liquid , either way it goes from dry to wet . Another thing I do if the hook is wrapped in dough instead of working against the sides , I briefly turn up the speed and that will throw the dough to the sides and sometimes clean it .
It 's a matter of taste . Since your durian is already cut , as it continues to ripen ( which it will , although much more slowly than uncut fruit ) it is also rotting/fermenting ( which is desired by many ) . You do n't say where you are from , but durian season is long over in the northern hemisphere . Most durian sold in the US this time of year has been frozen . Previously frozen durian rots more rapidly and ripens less rapidly than fruit that has n't been frozen , some sources say that previously frozen durian wo n't ripen at all , only mature ( rot ) . So the bottom line for you is that you should taste your durian every 12 hours or so and put it in the freezer ( or consume it ) when it has matured to your liking . The ripening ( not rotting ) of durian is accelerated by the ethylene it produces . Since sources are not in complete agreement concerning additional ripening of previously frozen durian , keeping the pieces in a bag with ethylene may help . Most of the ethylene is produced by the husk , not the flesh of the fruit . If your fruit still has the husk , it is worthwhile to keep it in a closed bag for that reason . Whether or not the Durian still has the husk , it would n't hurt to add an apple to the bag for more ethylene . If you can , store your durian with an apple in a few separate bags , so that " tasting you go " does n't release all of the ethylene available to all of the durian . Some durian lovers go as far as to keep ripe , cut durian on the counter ; rotting away ( and producing alcohol ) for 3-4 weeks . Others prefer durian under-ripe and freshly cut .
Do you weigh your flour ? If not , that is the one change that you can make that will make this problem go away . Most of baking , particularly at the commercial level , is based on ratios by weight . While there will be some minor differences in the amount of moisture in 10 ounces of flour based on the humidity , how much flour packs into a cup can vary a lot on humidity , how much you 've fluffed or sifted the flour first , whether you scoop or sprinkle ... you get the idea . If you do n't weigh your flour when you bake , then there are lots of possible problems that could have occurred that may or may not have had anything to do with the humidity . The only other " seat of the pants " solution is to know your recipe so well that if you notice that there is a problem , you 'll catch it early . Third rise is a little late to be adding moisture , so you would have had to have noticed the problem at the beginning . Weighing your flour and water solves many baking problems and makes you look like a pro . Since you are weighing , then " knowing your recipe and adjusting on the fly " seems to be the only real answer . I checked around and even <URL> In the situation you described I might have added a bit of water at the third rise , then let it have another rise . Another thought is that , possibly , the air being so dry caused the tops of your rolls to dry out some , so they were n't flexible and you did n't get any oven spring . A spritz of warm water across the top of the rolls during final rise and , indeed , in the oven ( I do it with my sourdough loaves , for instance ) helps the bread skin to be loose enough to not inhibit the initial oven spring .
It 's absolutely fine to make the dough in advance , just do n't let it dry out . It even freezes well . There is more good information on <URL> on the subject . Keep it on the counter for up to a day , refrigerated for up to three days , frozen for up to 6 months ( for best quality ) . In any case that you want to hold the dough , be sure that your baking powder ( if using ) is of the <URL> variety .
I feel your pain . If only I liked summer squash better ... You definitely can freeze squash -- thick slice it , blanch it in salty water briefly until almost tender , transfer to an ice bath until it 's chilled , bag it , and put in the freezer . Later , thaw and use with recipes that do n't require ultra-crisp squash .
Your metal bowl sitting in your 70 ° F room is 70 ° F ( at least , if its been sitting there for a bit ) . Your plastic bowl , or glass bowl , or ceramic bowl , or any other bowl sitting in the same room is also 70 ° F. They 're all actually the same temperature . Now , given , when you touch the metal bowl , it feels cooler than the plastic one . This is because your finger is n't 70 ° F , and your body heat is transferred away quicker by metal than ( say ) plastic . If the dough is room temperature , it wo n't matter -- heat is n't flowing out of it . The dough itself does n't generate much heat . If your dough started above room temperature , it will cool a little quicker in a metal bowl . But , if you wanted to keep it from cooling , putting it in a warm place is much more effective . A stainless steel bowl is fine . I 'd avoid aluminum ( and copper , if anyone makes a mixer with such a thing ) due to them being reactive , especially if you 're making sourdough .
In the freezer , more-or-less indefinitely , depending on how good your freezer is . Certainly months to years . In the fridge , it depends on the kind of mole . Quick moles ( like various green moles ) do n't keep very long , maybe a week at most . A long-cooked mole should keep a bit longer -- up to 2 weeks -- since all of the ingredients are completely cooked . If you 're not planning to use it within a week , though , why not freeze it ? The texture wo n't take any harm from freezing and thawing .
Time is n't the main factor , gluten development is . You should knead the dough until the gluten is sufficiently developed to give the dough elasticity , and the final bread good structure . There are two simple tests you can perform to check whether your dough is kneaded sufficiently . First , the Poke Test . Form the dough into a ball , and with a floured finger , give it a light poke . If it springs back to its original shape , you 're on the right track . Secondly , you can do the Windowpane Test . Grab off a chunk of dough , then try and stretch it apart . If the gluten is sufficiently developed , the dough should n't tear - it should stretch to a point where you can see light through it , hence the name .
It sounds like your bananas might not be ripe enough . If they 're really ripe , you can mash with a fork and with very little effort turn them into a nice smooth goopy mush . There should n't be any pieces left to sink . You want to wait until they 're so ripe you would n't want to eat them - blackening skin , very very soft .
I wo n't claim that this is universal , and I probably would n't try it with scotch bonnets or ghost peppers , but this is what I do with poblanos , seranos , jalapenos , and the like : Treat them like any other vegetable when you prep , using good knife skills , and a well sharpened knife -- good skills minimize how much you touch the product anyway . Do n't touch your eyes or face or anything you do n't have to . When you are done , wash your hands in soapy water . Here is how I would dice a jalapeno ( I like the red ones the best ) or similar small pepper . For this , I would use a paring knife . For a larger pepper , like a poblano , I would use chef knife or a santuko : Cut off the stem end so only the fleshy part of the pepper remains . It will be a little cone . Optionally , cut a tiny part of the tip , to make it easier to separate the flesh , but it is not absolutely required . Cut a a slit into the side of the pepper through the flesh and into the cavity ... then ... continuing the same motion ... ... turn your knife parallel to the flesh , and run the edge of the blade around the inside of the pod so that you are essentially peeling the skin from the core of seeds and membranes . This is much easier to do than to describe in text . Discard the seeds and membranes . Unroll the pepper , skin side up , and flatten the flesh of the pepper out , so it is like a piece of paper . It may split a little when you do this , that is fine . It is easiest to flatten with the outside facing up , but easiest to cut with the outside of the skin facing the cutting board . Turn the pepper sheet over , so it is skin side down . Cut it into long , thin strips -- juliennes . Cross-cut the juliennes into dice . If you want a hotter product , and a more rustic one , with a small pepper , you can simply : Cut of the stem end . Slice the remaining pepper into circles or coins , thinly . If you want very hot dice , you can then : Pile up the coins , and chop through them several times in the standard rocking motion with a chef 's knife .
You may very well be able to make that system work for you , but in the two fine-dining restaurants I 've worked , the system is less paperwork-intensive and more common-sense . It is based on organized storage , adding new product where it will be used after the old , and labeling . This lets you see at a glance what you have and how old it is , rather than having to constantly maintain an up-to-date inventory list . It also makes it easy to find what you want . The system works like so : Organize your storage so food goes in the same spot every day . This way you can find see at a glance what you have and what you need . It also makes it easier to find things . New food of the same type goes behind the old stuff , and is n't opened until the old product is used up . This prevents you from discovering the dreaded Green Milk lurking at the back of the fridge . ALWAYS label prepared food with the date , using masking tape and a permanent marker . Make sure the label ( or container 's expiration date ) is toward the front . You do n't want to have to sniff-test old food . Trust me . Store in clear containers , so you see how much is left . Inventory perishable foods before purchasing more . Toss spoiled or questionable food promptly . This prevents " unpleasant surprises , " and avoids contaminating nearby stuff . Cool food as fast as possible , to prevent bacterial growth . Hot water holds a lot of heat , so it gets pre-chilled in an ice water bath ; otherwise it can stay warm and breed bacteria for HOURS . Containers can be left open for an hour or two in the fridge to cool contents faster . At home , I use a very similar system , with a few modifications : Pre-packaged containers get labelled with an opened-on date , because usually this determines when they spoil more than the expiration date . Expiration dates are just rough estimates . <URL> provides more detailed information , but I do n't refrigerate any kind of leftover more than a week . High-protein foods , or things with egg in them get less time . If it smells even a little off , it 's probably unsafe , with the exception of milk and produce . They will only make you WISH they could kill you . Only buy produce you can use before the next grocery run ... unless it 's really cheap and can be used up easily . Yes , fresh tomatoes are amazing to cook with . They 're slightly less awesome when half of your 5 pounds spoil , unused . Do n't buy fresh meat or fish without a specific meal plan , or at least a schedule for use . This prevents these expensive , perishable foods from sitting in the fridge and spoiling . This does n't have to be a detailed day-by-day meal plan , but the minute you take to think before buying prevents impulse buys and helps make sure you 'll have the time and ingredients to cook the food before it goes bad . I know the last point can be difficult , but remember that a meal plan might be no more than " make myself a nice steak over the weekend . " The idea is to avoid buying meat on Sunday that you wo n't have time to cook until next Friday . If you have to , buy meat right before cooking a nice meal ; at least then it will be fresh . Freezing is also a good backup plan , but only if done fairly early .
Yes , you can definitely use UHT milk in bread . UHT is not usable for some applications , because its proteins have been changed by the heat . But in bread , you do n't need the proteins from the milk . Bread recipes include milk to make the dough richer , so it is mostly the fat content that matters . Using UHT wo n't change anything in the dough structure . I even think that the usual unpleasant taste wo n't be noticeable , but I am not so sure about that . Still , it gets diluted a lot in dough , so if you can drink UHT as-is , you should n't have a problem with the bread taste .
Using the refrigerator for the first rise is absolutely easy , but that is not what you are asking about . For a second rise , tweaking your current approach a bit , I suggest : Place yout bread ( s ) on a baking tray or similar or use a well-floured banneton ( basket ) . Find a plastic bag large enough to fit the entire tray or the banneton plus a bit extra room inside . Lightly " blow up " the filled bag and close with a clip , rubber band or similar . You are not creating a " ballon " , just enough to have the bag " float " a bit over the loaf . Another option would be placing a glass , can or similar object next to your loaves to support the foil tent from below . You need not create an air-tight seal , but you want to limit the loss of moisture to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . For a single boule , an inverted bowl can protect the loaf enough , or if you use an appropriately sized Tupperware or similar bowl in lieu of a banneton , just close the lid . A few additional thoughts : For round loaves ( boules ) a banneton or in a pinch , a bowl , helps to keep the loaf in shape . Especially for long proofing times the tension created by shaping the loaf might not be enough to hold over hours , causing the loaf to " flow " sideways . Flour the basket well and do n't worry about excess flour at the bottom ( or top , depending in technique ) of the loaf , simply brush it off after baking . You do n't need to put parchment under the loaf if you transfer them to a pizza stone or pre-heated tray . Do n't try to lift a baguette by hand , use a sword-shaped <URL> or , in a pinch , a cutting board and roll the baguette onto the peel and back onto the pizza stone or second tray . That said , damp paper is n't much of a problem unless it is so wet that it will simply tear . Rolls or other small items are easier to pack into a plastic container - plus they bake quickly in the morning , which may add a bit of convenience ( or allows for a few extra minutes of sleep ) .
Traditional dough will not freeze well . You have to par-bake it . In the US , the & ldquo ; freshly baked & rdquo ; bread sold in most supermarkets is par-baked dough . This is risen dough , which is then baked for 70 to 80 % of the usual baking time , cooled , frozen , and shipped to the supermarket , where it is baked again until golden . You could do the same . A par-baked baugette is a bit denser than a traditional one . Freezing the dough before baking it kills most of the yeast preventing it from working during the first stages of baking .
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
The reason for doing delayed fermentation in the fridge is that the yeast development is slowed down , while still allowing the enzymes that naturally occur in the flour to do their work ( converting starches to sugars , making a more flavorful dough ) . The risk of doing it on the counter instead of the fridge is that the enzymes are working AND the yeast is working , which can over-leaven the bread , and they 'll eat up the sugars you are trying to create with enzymes . Over-leavened bread is n't ideal , but it is n't the end of the world either . There is a lot to learn about bread baking if you want to really excel at it , but " just bake it , it 'll be fine " is always present as you experiment - glad the loaf turned out well ! " No-Knead " bread is a great introduction to " rustic " doughs ( very high water content ) , and to cold fermentation . Cold fermentation is about the best thing you can do for your bread as a home baker , whether or not you are using the no-knead recipe - I cold ferment nearly everything I bake . If you want to learn more about the process and jump off the deep end , Peter Reinhart 's book " The Bread Baker 's Apprentice " is a great place to start . It is detailed without being pedantic , simple without being over-simplified , and oriented for the home baker without forgetting the reasons that professionals do things the way they do .
end question
start question
What other cut of meat can replace pork shank ?
You could probably get away with pork shoulder , although you will want to consider that the texture may not be what you want -- it may either have too much fat and connective tissue , or it may fall apart too much , depending on how long you braise it for . You will probably have to alter your cooking times , I 'd imagine . Pork hocks are somewhat similar in texture to the shank , so that a possibility . Though you will probably run into the same availability problems . It may take a small amount of modification , but your best bet may be to go with country-style ribs . They are tender and flavorful when braised , and are readily available in any grocery store .
You can look for a CSA in your area , <URL> : CSAs consist of a system of weekly delivery or pick-up of vegetables and fruit in a vegetable box scheme , sometimes including dairy products and meat . You can use <URL> to try to find one in your area .
By " Italian Sausage " I think you mean the seasoned pork sausage available in many supermarkets throughout the US . I 've found that a 30-70 mix of beef and turkey/chicken works reasonably well as a substitute when pork is not available . Beef is too strong a flavor and turkey too weak in its own . Flavor-wise most italian sausage has red wine , fennel , and oregano .
It depends on the recipe . As Jefromi said , salmon does have a different flavor . Specifically it has flavor . Tilapia does n't really have much flavor at all . More importantly , salmon has about <URL> as tilapia . Salmon holds together better than more fragile white fish . This makes grilling salmon much easier than other fish which fall apart . If your recipe highlights the flavor of the fish , or relies on the fat or cohesion of salmon then you should not make the substitution . On the other hand if your recipe calls for baking in a pan and uses other flavorings , such as lemon , that can overpower the flavor of the fish , it would be a good candidate for substitution .
Well , it looks like I found my answer : <URL> is used for creating <URL> . Field corn includes a few types of corn ( dent , flour , flint , waxy ) . I 'm not sure if all types of field corn are used for masa de maíz , however . So , if anyone has a more specific answer , feel free to give it . I 'm guessing really any kind of corn could be nixtamalized , however ( but some kinds may be more ideal than others ) . Other kinds of grain besides corn can also be nixtamalized .
Ground pork is simply that , pork . Pork sausage is ground pork that has been seasoned . You can substitute , but you 'll have to bring your own seasoning .
The USDA NAL <URL> : Refuse : 20 % Refuse Description : Bone In addition , you can compare the serving size weight of the breast with skin ( 145 g ) to the weight of the <URL> ( 118 g ) , each derived from 1/2 chicken breast , so the skin accounts for about 18.6 % of the deboned breast and 14.9 % of the bone-in breast ( accounting for the earlier 20 % ) . All in , it looks like a bone-in breast with skin is slightly more than 65 % meat . Breast meat is generally the most expensive part of the chicken to buy , even bone-in ; if economy is really a factor here than you really should consider using the whole chicken .
If you are really set on doing this , just use the same amount by weight or volume , preferably peeling the tomatoes first . ( Cut an x in the bottom , dip in boiling water for 10 seconds , pull off the peel ) . You 'll have plenty of liquid coming out of the tomato , do n't worry about that . But honestly , I do n't recommend doing this . Fresh tomatoes that are any good are so good uncooked that it is a waste , and fresh tomatoes that are n't good wo n't get better by cooking them . Even Mario Batali says you should use canned tomatoes for cooked sauces .
Alcohol does not make the meat tender . It even prevents the outside surface of the meat to fully absorb the flavours . Then again , most marinades do n't penetrate into the meat anyway . When it comes to Shashlik , I think what is working for your uncle , is the time the meat spends in the fridge getting aged ( they probably marinate for a day or more ) and the enzymes break down the meat . It is a myth that Alcohol or Acid make the meat tender . In fact , they have the opposite effect . Per food author <URL> : Alcohol does denature and dehydrate meat and fish tissue , and the stronger the alcohol , the stronger this effect . What you should do instead , is to cook off the alcohol from your marinade first . The ingredient that keeps the meat juicy is salt which most marinades have . The less acidic marinade ( beer versus wine ) the more tender the meat . However , some not so acidic wines end up flavouring the surface of the meat enough to provide a pleasant byte .
It is basically the anethole ( a phenol ) of the star anise that react with the sulfur in the onion to create sulfur-phenolic aromatics . In Chinese cuisine the same family of reactions is used with duck and pork . The sulfur-phenols are also produced during the Maillard reaction , the reaction that gives grilled meat its characteristic flavor , so adding star anise to the onions will give your dishes more of that grilled , browned flavor . The reactions of the compounds in the star anise with those in the meat are not the relevant reactions for flavor or texture . From averaging a few recipes , I would say 1 star anise for every 250g of chopped onion . Too much star anise will highlight the other aromas in star anise , so one has to use it in moderation and allow enough time for the reactions to take place . Garam masala , a common Indian spice combination that is used in meat dishes , may have star anise . Star anise is sometimes used in French onion soup -- it intensifies the caramel flavor of the onions -- and in Vietnamese cuisine , which today incorporates French elements .
<URL> list chili powder as : 2 tablespoons paprika 2 teaspoons oregano 1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 3/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste ( optional ) There are other mixtures , but this one seem basic enough . The " heat " comes from the cayenne pepper . The other spices round out the flavor . So I 'd mix everything but the cayenne pepper and use that mixture to cut your present chili powder .
Despite the fashion of using " processed " as if it is a derogatory term , and processed foods are dangerous , almost all foods are processed in some way ( s ) . Most of us , for example , do not chew wheat berries directly off the stalks , but prefer them threshed , hulled , ground into flour , and then baked into breads or other foods . What is that , if not processing ? Of course , cooking itself is a form of processing , since most of us no longer eat our meat raw from the carcass . There are a number of common ways that meat is processed , after being butchered , some of which are more extreme than others . Some foods have several of these processes applied . Among the more common are : Cooking Grinding ( as in hamburger , and many sausages ) Curing with salt or other curing agents ( as in bacon ) Canning ( as in the infamous Spam , or Vienna sausages ) Drying or dehydrating ( jerky ) Pickling ( pickled pigs feet ) Smoking ( which is often combined with curing , cooking , or drying , such as Virginia ham ) Freezing Injection of brine or other flavorings or enhancements ( many ham products ) I do n't think there is any universal measure by which you can consider processing good or bad . You have to consider each within the context of the particular food product , and its outcome .
This is an unwise practice . While pure fat is actually fairly stable , you do n't know how much residual water and other components remain in your rendered fat . You should collect it and refrigerate it ( it should last at least a week , probably much longer in practice ) in an sealed and air tight container ( to minimize rancidity ) if you intend to reuse it . Otherwise , you should discard it immediately . For the cannonical answer and reasoning , see : <URL>
Specifically , steel cut oats look like little pellets , whereas rolled oats have the familiar flat shape from going through a steel roller . The rolled ones expose more surface area and therefore cook faster , but produce a different final texture . I do like the steel-cut ones better , but they take upwards of half an hour to cook . You can make a large batch and reheat it for 2-3 days if you like . I think some folks also use a pressure cooker to speed them up .
Clean your potatoes . Peel if desired . Slice in half , lengthways . Place flat sides down on your cutting board . Cut again in half , lengthways . This would be for very large wedges . For slightly smaller , cut in thirds , lengthways , on a 60 degree angle , from the outside of the potato to the centre line where it hits the cutting board . For even smaller , slice in half again after the second half cut .
My guess is that you dropped 2lb of carrots into the water . This drops the water temperature under the boiling-simmering point . So , you 're not blanching correctly . You should have taken about 3/4lb portions and blanched them successively . ( Or you should have used more water on a bigger stove top . )
Try watered down cream , as you 'll still get some of the milkfat , but you do n't want quite as much . Water would probably also work for your crepes , although it would change the taste .
One method I found over time : Chop it into tiny pieces and stir fry it with bacon and onions ( also chopped up ) . Once that 's soft , leave it to cool , then mix it in meatballs in a 50:50 ratio . If some eggs and breadcrumbs are added a fine meatball is made that tastes a bit sweeter and veggy and is healthier . :)
First , I 'm assuming by " pesto " you mean " Pesto alla Genovese " , given your question about pine nuts . Basil , pine nuts , garlic , olive oil , and cheese is a delicious combination , but it 's only one of many " pestos " ( peste , actually ) , since pesto refers in general to any sauce which is made from crushed or pureed ingredients . Mix and match to your heart 's content . Walnuts are actually a traditional alternative to pine nuts for Pesto alla Genovese ; pine nuts have always been scarce , even in early-20th-century Italy . As a caution , though , you need to get good , fresh walnuts and make sure to get all of the skin off the nuts , or the pesto will taste bitter and rancid . Almonds could also work , although I 'd think they 'd be rather bland . The herb pastes which traditionally have crushed almonds -- such as Romanesco sauce -- include some hot pepper . Again , freshness and getting the skin off is important . I 'd think sunflower seeds would be kind of odd and oily , but you do n't know until you try . If you do , post a comment to let us know !
Well , if you do n't want to spend a fortune on a <URL> , your best bet is a bone saw . Image from <URL> Here 's one on <URL> . Here 's a less expensive one from <URL> . Here 's a fairly reasonably priced <URL> . If I was going to do a lot of butchery , I 'd consider that .
end question
start question
How do I practice piping icing without wasting icing and money ?
I suggest you use royal icing instead of butter icing . Basically made from icing sugar ( powder sugar ) and egg white , it will cost very little and can still be coloured if necessary . Once you have tried out all the simple styles you scrape it off the board or work surface , mix it well and practice again . Store in a sealed air-tight container in the fridge for 1-2 days . This will give you time to make more intricate flowers , trellis , run out collars , nests , baskets , etc. on small squares of greaseproof paper , nails , etc. . Dry in an airy place and once completely set and hard , you can keep the results in a sealed container in a cool dry place for weeks to use as cake or cookie decorations . If you are really serious about becoming a sugar artist , it will be important to master royal icing , so you might as well start out with using it for " basic training " , so to speak .
If you do n't want gritty bread , use finely milled polenta . Roughly milled polenta is like semolina , and results in a gritty batter . Finely milled polenta is like flour , and results in a smooth batter . I do n't know the proper names for the different milling grades in English . I do n't mean cornflour , which is pure maize starch from the inside of the maize kernel . I mean whole maize kernels milled so the particles are the same size as wheat flour . It is yellow and tastes the same way as the rough one , only the texture is different . The two types of polenta differ in their water absorption and soaking times , so you may want to use a recipe developed for the fine milled type , or tweak your own recipe . To give you a better example , here is what you need : You do n't want to use the rough form , which looks like this :
Disclaimer : I am not an expert on foams . I 've made a couple before , successfully , but never anything like a lobster bisque foam . So I would advise any casual readers to do their own fact-checking and try this on a small scale - at least until somebody can verify it . Now , onto the questions : I have Lecithin and Mono/diglyceride from a set . It says they 're both emulsifying agents . Which should I use ? What 's the difference ? First of all , what you want for a foam is a stabilizer , and <URL> . Personally , I have never heard of mono/diglyceride being used for a culinary foam . Some research suggests that it is actually an <URL> ! Stick to the lecithin . Note : For the sake of completeness , lecithin is also considered a <URL> , which means it facilitates the foaming itself in addition to stabilizing it . This is especially important when making foams out of things that do n't naturally foam , like teas or juices . What 's the appropriate ratio of emulsifying agent to liquid ? How does changing the ratio affect the foam ? <URL> suggests starting with a 0.6 % ratio , but most people ( myself included ) use a ratio of 1 % - in other words , 1 g of lecithin for every 100 mL of liquid . See <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . The ratio is not quite as sensitive as some other hydrocolloids where you need to measure out sub-grams , but it is still important ; too little and your foam wo n't hold at all ( seems to be what happened to you ) , too much and you 'll end up with soy-flavoured soap . Note : When making a foam out of something that does not naturally foam , such as juice , you may need to up the ratio as high as 2 % . Milk-based foams rely partially on the foaming ability of milk itself . Does temperature effect how the foam forms ? Sort of . Actually , if you 're making a milk-based foam then it 's pretty much the same as just <URL> - i.e. for a cappuccino . The only difference is that you 've added a stabilizing agent , so it will stay foamy . So basically you just need to keep it under 80 ° C or 175 ° F , otherwise it will burn . Lecithin can dissolve in cold water , so you really do n't need to be very precise , but anecdotally , it 's best if it 's slightly warmed , say around 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) . What consistency should my bisque be to make a good foam ? Does it need to be thin , or will it work thick ? You want a very thin consistency , close to the consistency of water , for the same reason that it 's better to use skim milk for frothing and egg whites for meringue . Generally speaking , it 's the proteins that are most active in creating culinary foams ; large amounts of fat ( such as in cream ) can interfere with the foaming action and also add weight , which is not at all what you want in a foam . I have n't made lobster bisque , but I believe it 's very thick and made with cream - not a good candidate for foams . I looked at <URL> which involves tomato paste , corn starch , and cream ; if making a foam I think I would substitute a thin tomato sauce or juice , reduce or eliminate the corn starch , and use skim milk instead of cream . Remember that you 're not trying to serve this bisque , you 're using it in a foam . What else should I know before trying to make this ? I do n't have a Vitamix , and maybe it can do a lot of cool things that one ca n't do with an ordinary blender , but nevertheless , I 've never heard of a culinary foam being made in an actual blender . A stick blender ( AKA hand blender , immersion blender ) is much more reliable for foaming .
Buttercream is pretty simple , start with room temperature butter , beat it until it 's white , slowly add icing sugar , add small amounts of milk as needed to keep the consistency right . For each 1/4 cup ( 1/2 stick ) of butter , use about 1 1/2 cups of icing sugar ( sifted ) and 3 Tbsp of milk . You can do it in a mixer , a food processor , or just use a bowl and a whisk . I used a whisk a few days ago when I realized my large stand mixer is overkill for the small amount of icing I wanted and I found that microwaving the icing for about 10 seconds helped me stir in the sugar when it was getting too thick .
I would crispen the outside a bit by frying or baking them first . To improve the outer crust , you might dust with flour and corn starch before frying . Typically I have not previously had problems with meat balls in sauce becoming mushy using minimally breaded mix , spices , and lean - ish ( 90 % ) ground meat . Here are some additional points to consider ; If you use bread in your meatball mix , you might tilt the ratio more in favor of the meat If you are not using egg or some other binder , you might try doing so to create a tighter bond inside the ball If you are cooking the sauce at too high a heat ( I normally have mine set as low as possible when doing a long cook ) it may come to a simmer , making the sauce likelier to disrupt the meatballs . Maintain a lower heat or use a heavier pot If you are using ground meat , there is more room for the sauce to creep in . Make sure that they are packed sufficiently tightly when rolling them Short of leaving the sauce and meat overnight , flavors will transfer more quickly in warmer temperatures . I am having trouble locating definitive resources to back this claim up , so I am speaking mainly from experience . However , one caveat exists particular to collagen and connective tissues in meat ; <URL> . Mixing water and strong acids is an exothermic process ( gives off heat , does not benefit from warmth ) . However , this process is about mixing strong acids and fats . I would also mention that you are supposed to store tomatoes at room temp as the cold does not preserve their flavor and inhibits ripening , though I 'm not sure this is relevant .
If corn syrup works , it seems to me that simple syrup ( i.e. a saturated solution of sugar and water ) ought to work , too .
A lot depends on what kind of cheese you are making . I will assume that you are making a standard , medium-firm , rennet-set cheese . I have had the most success adding seasonings and herbs with the salt . That is - after the curd has set , been cut , and drained but before it has been pressed at all . Work in the salt and any other flavors before placing the curd in the mold . I imagine any herb or spice would work - it depends what flavor you want . I have used basil when I had a bumper crop . I have also used dried peppers . As to dry or fresh - either would work . As with anything if you use dry then use a lot less . I prefer fresh because it is more tender . Other cheeses might be a little different but as a rule of thumb adding with the salt should work . Mozzarella seems like it would be trickier because the kneading of the curd would change things .
I 'd recommend letting it cool to near room-temperature , then place it in an airtight sealed plastic freezer bag before it dries out too much . You can spoon some of the juices from cooking into the bag with the steak so that when it defrosts again the juices will be in there working to keep it moist . When you defrost it , do so in your fridge leaving it overnight so that it defrosts gradually , keeping it in the freezer bag so it does n't lose any more moisture . It should then be good to reheat , probably best in a shallow pan rather than a microwave to retain moisture .
First , finely chop the onions . This makes them smaller , faster-cooking , and less of a textural presence in the dish . Do it by cutting straight through the poles of the onion , resulting in two halves . Then chop off the knobs and peel off the outer layer . Run the knife 8 or 9 times along the vertical ( from pole to pole ) , but do n't sever one end completely . Cut finely across these verticals to make a fine dice . Run the knife over the pile a few times if your cut is n't small enough . Second , cook the onions . The purpose of sweating is to draw moisture out , concentrating the flavor and enhancing conversion from starch to sugar . Heating the onions releases their aroma and reduces the chemical bitterness they exhibit when raw . Heat up some oil in a pan to medium-low heat . Add the onions . Add salt . I would n't cover the pan , since the lid will prevent steam from escaping . Stir/shake to prevent sticking or burning . The onions will get soft and then translucent . ( Eventually , if you kept going they would get limp and browned ; this is referred to as caramelized and considered a different thing than sweated , so although it 's just further along the same spectrum , you should n't go that far for this recipe ) . That 's how I 'd do it and why . I do n't know if it 's a textbook answer .
A vita mix should work pretty well ; maybe you could carefully drag a spatula in the top of the vortex ( nowhere near the blade ! ) to introduce more air . A whisk will be pretty slow going . And then there is a whole other category of foams made in a whipped cream canister . Here is a link to get you started : <URL>
To expand on Jolene 's box idea , I 'd recommend : shirt boxes ( talk to a local department store if you 're not planning on buying a bunch of shirts ) pizza boxes ( again , talk to a local store about getting some ... likely get the smallest ones you can , such as if they have ones for a few leftover slices as opposed to for a whole pie ) restaurant takeout containers ( depending on the size of the cookies ... talk to a local chinese carryout or similar ) Some cake and candy supply stores will sell a variety of box sizes as well . I 'd also agree with irwinners in recommending a fan -- I ca n't quantify the exact speedup , as it 's affected by ambient humidity , temperature , airspeed and such , but a box fan near the cookies ( I use it to suck air over the cookies , not blow , as I do n't have a good way to dust the inside of the fan without disassembling it each time ) will help to crust up the icing to make it a little more sturdy .
There are many ways to do it , so it is personal choice . Here is a <URL> if you need to know more . Here is how I do it . You are going to need two forks and a knife . STEP 1 Place the prickly pear on a cutting board or a plate using a fork by firmly pushing the fork lengthwise into the skin of the prickly pear STEP 2 With a sharp edge knife , cut of the two end of the prickly pear . STEP 3 Now , cut through the skin lengthwise . The skin is quite thick , so you need to make a deep cut . STEP 4 With the second fork , pull away the skin on one side from the inside of the fruit as far as you can STEP 5 Now , firmly hold the fruit with the second fork by inserting the second fork into flesh of the fruit . STEP 6 Remove the first fork and use that to peel away the rest of the skin from the flesh of the fruit . STEP 7 The inside of the fruit is now free from the skin , so you can remove it . Place it on a clean plate STEP 8 Discard the rests , and properly rinse all the utensils under running water before cleaning the next fruit Other tips : Wearing welding gloves also works well to handle the fruit To remove most of the thorns before hand , hold the fruit lengthwise between your fingers and gently rub the skin over loose sand . Rinse with water afterwards . Be careful when removing the gloves A bottle brush or nail brush can also be used . Wearing gloves , hold the prickly pear in one hand while you scrubbing the skin of the fruit with the bottle brush/nail brush . Rinse under running water . In both of the above cases , you still need to treat the fruit as you normally would as if it would still have thorns on .
The easiest way to prevent meringue from weeping is by adding a teaspoon of cornstarch to the recipe , which will absorb the excess moisture that causes it . If you 're a bit adventurous , you can also opt to sprinkle some cookie crumbs over your filling so when it weeps , the crumbs will absorb the moisture .
If you are freezing the tortillas yourself and do n't mind putting in a little extra work in the beginning to get more convenience later , I would separate the tortillas with waxed paper ( actually I use the paper sheets that are waxed on one side , intended for bakeries ) . What this buys you is the ability to pull out one or two tortillas as you need them . They will defrost just fine in the pan that you are going to warm/brown them in anyway . If you customarily run through a dozen tortillas , then you probably do n't want to bother . But if that is the case then you probably are n't freezing your tortillas in the first place .
Use an artificial sweetener . There 's no single best one , just pick whatever suits your tastes . The packaging will hopefully have conversion factors ( or you can look them up online ) . They probably wo n't be perfect , but they 'll give you a starting point for how much to use to replace the sugar in the recipe .
While the above suggestions would get rid of the oil splatter problem , they would also result in overcooked meat with a soggy exterior , as all the water created during frying ( for example , chicken releases a lot of juice ) would remain in the pan and steam the meat instead of frying it . Your best bet is to get something called a splatter screen . I 've seen one at <URL> , and at walmart , and I would assume kitchen supply stores would carry it too . A splatter screen is basically a fine metal mesh lid with a handle that fits over a variety of pans/pots and while it allows the steam to escape it also prevents the oil from splattering everywhere by catching in it the fine mesh . The best $ 10 you 'll ever spend .
Many of the dried noodles that are marketed as " udon " -- at least in my experience in the USA -- are actually mislabeled , thinner noodles like <URL> or even <URL> . I would suggest buying the semi-dried variety that are usually packaged in vacuum sealed plastic . This variety is shelf stable , but it can often be found in the refrigerated section of Asian mega-marts . The noodles will already be almost full size before cooking .
The consistency of royal icing depends on many things , including the size of your eggs , but also the humidity/weather . So if you know what stiffness you want , it 's perfectly valid to add sugar until it " feels right " . ( I usually make royal icing with meringue powder rather than fresh egg whites , which removes one variable from the equation [ the size of the eggs ] , but I still have to adjust the sugar to get the right consistency . ) As far as troubleshooting , if you 've been whipping away and it 's still gloopy , by all means add more sugar . If you overdo the sugar , you 'll know immediately : it 'll be too stiff to mix . ( In which case , depending on the quantities involved you can either just add a teaspoon of warm water , or you can whip up another egg white separately until soft peaks form , then fold it into your icing . )
Your local hardware store or DIY shop will likely have an assortment of dust masks you could try . The simplest ones would be cheap and very quick to put on and remove , and should help . It seems a little over the top to have to put on a mask for using pepper , but perhaps you 're extra sensitive and it 's just something you 'll have to deal with . Do you have any reaction at all from eating things with lots of black pepper ? Finally , you might look at how you 're physically dispensing the pepper . If you 're shaking it from a container you 're likely to stir up a small cloud of fine pepper dust . If you 're not already doing so , consider trying to use a tiny measuring spoon or even the wrong end of a regular spoon to scoop a little pepper out of the container directly and add it to your food -- less sprinkling/shaking , less irritant in the air .
I do n't know how you would describe the flavor of bay -- I would call it a subtle savoriness , with a complex aroma . Bay is very tough -- almost sharp . It is generally not eaten directly . Instead , the whole leaf ( or several whole leaves ) are put into a dish or sauce to cook with it , then removed prior to service . The shortest recipe I have for using bay is in a rice pilaf while it cooks , which is 15-30 minutes depending . I am not aware of an upper time limit . Here is a Miami Herald article offering some other perspectives on using bay leaves : <URL> As they Herald points out , many folks prefer Turkish bay rather than California bay , because it has a more complex , subtle flavor . ... I believe custard in Britain had bay as a traditional ingredient -- you might make a custard with a single bay leaf to get some sense of what it tastes like without lots of competing strong flavors . ... Update : Serious Eats Food Lab has just published an article , <URL> with lots of good information that may be of interest .
end question
start question
Can you substitute blood for the eggs in an ice cream base ?
The Nordic Food Lab , founded by René Redzepi , has experimented with blood as egg substitute , full blog entry including recipes <URL> . Apparently texture-wise the substitution can be possible , but the typical bloody aftertaste is hard to mask , which might have to do with the physiological way the metallic taste is perceived . It seems especially women tend to recognize this ingredient quite easily .
Someone made an instructable on how to make what they call a Japanese Golden Egg ( although a search for that just gave me lots of hits on Angry Birds ) ; they spin the egg quickly , breaking up the internal structure , and then boil it to get a scrambled-egg-colored boiled egg . <URL>
See this <URL> page , it states that if not crumpled aluminum foils is generally safe , so make sure you do not crumple it . Then it says The USDA recommends that aluminum foil used as a partial food shield in microwave cooking cover no more than one quarter of a food object , and be carefully smoothed to eliminate sparking hazards . The <URL> states However , small pieces of aluminum foil can be used to " shield " areas of foods , such as poultry drumsticks and wings , to prevent overcooking . It also states General Rules for Safe Use of Aluminum Foil : Use new , smooth foil only . Wrinkled foil can cause arcing ( sparks ) . Cover no more than 1/4 of the food with foil . Shape the foil smoothly to the food so no edges stick out It makes no difference which side of foil ( shiny or dull ) is facing out . Do not place the foil closer than one inch from the oven walls . If the microwave oven has metal shelves OR a metal turntable , do n't microwave food in foil containers or metal pans , and do n't let foil used for shielding touch or be close to the shelves or turntable . If you see arcing ( sparks ) , immediately remove the foil shielding ; transfer frozen food from foil container to a microwave-safe utensil . My bolding . So make sure you only cover the top of the cup and make the foil smooth , do not crumple it and it should be safe . The reason to use this as stated in the blog is speed , a few minutes compared to much longer .
When this happens to me , I am distrustful of a simple reheat . It is possible that it was undercooked , but also possible that it was maybe overcooked/understirred and that most of the binding proteins solidified on the bottom and too little of them remained in the milk , or maybe that the ratios were simply wrong . Your specific recipe also contains starch , so if you truly undercooked , then it 's very probable that the yolks dissolved your starch , so you are left without any starch binding power . The most secure way is to throw it out and make another batch , this time boiling so that it blubbs for at least a minute . If you really want to save it , just use another thickener . In pure custards , I tend to add starch if they do n't turn out . If there is already starch in there , I prefer another thickener such as xanthan . First , I do n't know why the starch did n't work the first time , but repeating it somehow feels wrong . Second , it can get too much of a starchy/floury taste . The " other dish " is not something that can be answered on a Stack Exchange site . You have limitless possibilities to do with it whatever you want , starting with drinking it as it is . Anything which you can make with a custard which was made thin on purpose can be made with your failed custard too .
tl ; dr Either way is fine . When making ice cream - your quest is to bind up water . Water crystallizes and makes ice cream icy instead of creamy . There are a lot of ways to keep water from freezing in ice cream from reducing the volume of water in the mix , to using natural antifreezes , to binding the water up with gums or starches . Sugar loves water . The water will eagerly hook up with sugar and wo n't be able to freeze . If you macerate your cherries two things will happen - 1 - Water will be drawn out of the cherries and 2 - The water that is left in them will be saturated with sugar and slower to freeze . The result is that the cherries will be softer , sweeter ( of course ) , be slightly more concentrated , and not freeze solid . If you do n't macerate them then they will be little chunks for cherry ice . Both ways are perfectly tasty and I 've had ice creams that do it either way . It just depends what you want to make .
Try heating the cream and milk to just below a simmer . Right before adding the milk mixture to the yolks whisk the sugar , vanilla , and eggs together . Pour the hot milk mixture into eggs very slowly . It 's best to strain it through a fine strainer . If you use vanilla bean make sure to add it after straining it . Let cool a little before putting it into the fridge . It should be cold before making the ice cream . It 's not necessary to fully temper ice cream base like crème anglaise .
To expand michaels answer ( assuming that you want strawberry icecream and not pieces of strawberry mixed in ) . If you are making a custard ice cream , leave the amount of egg yolks the same , because you want the lecithin from them . Reduce the sugar somewhat , because fruit is sweet . Then decide how much fruit puree you want ( maybe 1/3 the volume of the dairy part ) . Adjust the volume of the dairy so that the liquid is correct . Adjust the fat of the dairy so that the fat content is correct . Example , you start with the recipe for vanilla ice cream French ( = custard ) style by Lebovitz . 1 cup ( 250ml ) whole milk ; A pinch of salt ; 3/4 cup ( 150g ) sugar ; 1 vanilla bean , split lengthwise ; 2 cups ( 500ml ) heavy cream ; 5 large egg yolks ; 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract This recipe has 185g fat ( I calculated with 30 % fat in the cream ) , 460g dry matter ( this is both fat and non-fat ) and yields 990g ice cream ( rounded a bit ) . Let 's say that you decide to use 200g strawberry puree . 200g strawberry puree has 10g sugars , 18g dry matter and no fat . A mixture of 5 yolks , 140g sugar ( if you want , you can look at the fructose sweetness coefficient and change the sugar accordingly , but I think this is n't so much of a problem if we just substitute the 10g from strawberries ) , 200g strawberry puree and some salt and vanilla has 25g fat , 225g dry matter and weighs 430g ( rounded ) . You could create two equation systems , the first for the total volume of the dairy mixture needed , and the second one for the ratio of cream to milk , and solve these to get to a mixture with the original ratio . fatamount/total = fatpercentage liquidamount/total = liquidpercentage fatpercentage + liquidpercentage + nonfatdrypercentage = 1 where you know fatamount , liquidamount and nonfatdrypercentage is around 0.1 ( actually 0.08 for milk only and 0.12 for cream only , but we do n't need so much precision ) . Solve for total , then calculate fatpercentage . 0.3 * cream + 0.04 * milk = fatpercentage * ( milk + cream ) milk + cream = total I will take a shortcut here . I specified almost as much strawberries as milk . They have no fat ( unlike milk ) , but a similar ( actually higher ) amount of dry mass . So let 's see what happens when we keep the 500g cream and turn the 50g difference between strawberries and milk into cream too ( because we suspect we want some more fat ) . Then we have 190 g fat , 290g dry matter and 980g ice cream base . At 19.38 % fat , we are above the ratio given in the article , but close to the original ratio ( and I suspect that the article might be about Philadelphia style ice cream , which has less fat ) . The 29.59 % dry matter are again outside of the article recommendation , but close to the original recipe . In fact , I assume that well emulsified fat can prevent ice crystal creation , so the higher liquid content does n't create problems here ( also note that McGee gives a 10-20 % range for fat in ice cream , not 7-12 % ) . Long story short : do n't add fruit puree , it is mostly water . Substitute puree for milk , calculate the new percentage of fat and dry matter ( use the 7-12 % fat and 37-42 % liquid for a recipe without emulsifiers , you can be freer if you have emulsifiers ; egg yolk counts as emulsifier ) . If you are still not there , try the calculation with less puree , or increase the fat and/or dry matter until you are in the recommended range . Or just start with the equations . NB # 1 I did n't check my calculations , could have a mistake there . But the principle should be correct . NB # 2 I calculated with cream density of 1 . This was somewhat surprising , but the nutrition data for cream I found insists that a cup of cream ( 240 ml ) weighs 238 g , so the difference is small enough to not go to the trouble to convert . A recipe given by volume probably ( hopefully ) has some leeway , so this should n't skew the results into a bad recipe .
I have had some success with this recipe : <URL> The fish should keep for a couple of weeks once pickled , but I always tend to eat mine in the first few days .
A general rule-of-thumb is that a butterfat content of 30 % or more is required to produce whipped cream . Half and half ( called half cream in the UK ) , which is comprised of half milk and half cream has a butterfat content between 10 - and 12.5 % butterfat , based on various sources discovered in my research . That being said , I 've read that half and half can be foamed by beating it and can even achieve some very soft creaminess if whipped while almost frozen . It certainly would not taste like whipped cream or have the rich mouth feel of whipped cream - at least without adding something to stabilize the mixture which is beyond my experience . As an aside , I have a " light , no-bake " cheesecake recipe that requires evaporated milk to be beaten but it must be thoroughly chilled before it will work . Here is a link to a wikipedia page that includes a chart with explanations of all milk products : <URL>
Yes , you absolutely can eat turkey eggs . They are somewhat like duck eggs in that they are richer and creamier in taste . However , turkeys do n't lay nearly as many eggs as chickens - perhaps 100 a year as opposed to a hen 's 300 , so do n't expect to enjoy them too often .
Yes , actually , there are two magic ingredients : <URL> and <URL> . Guar gum is a thickener , but in small quantities can also prevent the growth of ice crystals which would cause the ice cream to harden into icicles . Xanthan gum is a stabilizer which helps keep air ( called overrun ) in the mixture . Air is generally churned into ice cream by ice cream machines , but it wo n't stay that way without the stabilizer .
Ice cream is an emulsion and in it , you have air , fat , and ice . The smaller the ice crystals , the smoother the icecream and better chance of achieving a velvety , creamy , smooth texture . The flavor is also elevated given the smaller crystals . Put it in the freezer , and ice crystals start to grow bigger and you lose the benefits . Also , colder temperature inhibits the taste buds ability to pick up sweetness . At liquid nitro cooled temperatures , you can get an explosion of flavour as the icecream warms up and melts in your mouth and the taste buds start to pick up on sweetness . Finally , aside from a show , it 's much much faster to make icecream with LN2 than in a regular machine . Seconds versus 30-45minutes . There are hazardous issues with liquid nitrogen and handling . As a starting point , look into <URL> .
I would n't attempt to substitute . I 've read somewhere that you can use regular lime leaves , but I 've never seen those anywhere . Even Googling for lime leaf turns up kaffir lime leaves . They can be found easily enough online : <URL> . They freeze well for months in just a zip-lock bag . The flavor profile is best described as a bright floral aromatic . It 's similar in function , not taste , to a bay leaf . Thai cuisine uses kaffir lime leaves much as we do bay leaves . If you decide buying online is n't worth the hassle , then <URL> suggests the following substitute : 1/2 a small bay leaf 1/4 tsp of lime zest 1/8 tsp of fresh lemon thyme
I would halve the amount of icing sugar and substitute in cocoa powder . As long as you sift the cocoa powder well you should still have a smooth icing at the end . Provided your chocolate is n't milk chocolate you should still have a ' proper ' chocolate flavour as well .
In NZ normal pure cream is close enough to " double cream " in performance , it 's around 35 % to 40 % fat . By general global definition it should be called " heavy cream " NZ cream is pure skimmed cream from fresh milk , and does not need thickening or other processing to produce excellent results as a whipped product , or for a thick cream additive in sauces or fillings Cream can get a little seasonal just after calving time ( Aug ) , but in general it 's just perfect The export variety is often labelled " Culinary Cream " and is 38 % fat or higher . This is what many people around the world would consider NZ cream ( other than NZ butter or AMF ) If you want closer to 50 % fat cream , ask your local farmers for some raw milk and skim out the lumps of fat from that . Let the milk settle overnight and skim the cream from that . Then gently heat the fat lumps to melt and carefully mix into the skimmed cream . Not for the faint of heart ! NZ " Thickened cream " or " Mascarpone cream " is standard pure cream with a thickener like E1442 added , you can <URL>
There are two main types of provolone : piccante ( sharp ) and dolce ( sweet ) . Most braciola recipes I 've seen call for the sharp version . Sharp provolone tastes very similar to cheddar , which I assume is abundant in the UK . The issue is that " real " cheddar is a hard cheese and provolone is only semi-hard . Here in the US , we have a softer version of sharp cheddar-style cheese that is made in Wisconsin . If a similar semi-hard sharp cheddar variant is available in the UK , I would recommend that . It should also be noted that the term " braciola " ( or sometimes " braciole " ) means a lot of different things to different people . <URL> , likely including the author of your book , it takes on the Sicilian meaning of an involtino . Sometimes the meat will be filled with a soft cheese mixture like mozzarella mixed with grated pecorino romano . However , if the recipe calls for a harder cheese like provolone , it is likely referring to a variant that is very popular in the US in which the provolone is cut into thin slices ( usually using a deli slicer ) and layered on the meat before the meat is rolled . Therefore , any substitute for the provolone should ideally be thinly sliced .
I 've done this before , and you wo n't get exactly the same cookie as you got before . Confectioner 's sugar is a total bomb . Do n't bother . Dark brown sugar makes darker cookies , with a chewier texture , which keeps longer . This is n't always a bad thing . Several of my cookie recipes I thought were a bit dry were saved by DBS . It added a nice depth to the flavor , as well .
I do n't believe you would want to try to leaven bread with beer only , though you could certainly use it as a flavoring . First , the amount of yeast still present in a brewed batch of beer is very low . Beers that have been <URL> ( or bottle conditioned ) will have more than others but , particularly with high gravity beers ( beers with a lot of alcohol ) , a lot of the yeast has died due to the alcohol content or been removed by the manufacturer to clarify the brew ( yeasts make beer cloudy ) . Plus , beer yeast and bread yeast are very different things : From the info <URL> : Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce different proportions of carbon dioxide and alcohol . Baker 's yeast is a blend of several strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chosen for their flavor and ability to make carbon dioxide , which causes bread to rise . Brewer 's yeast is made of strains chosen for their alcohol-producing ability and tends to have a bitter flavor . Brewer 's yeast is considered an inactive yeast while baker 's yeast is an active yeast . In an active yeast the yeast cells are still alive , whereas they are killed in the process of making inactive yeasts , like brewer 's yeast . Brewer 's yeast is used to brew homemade wines and beers , while baker 's yeast makes bread rise . You ca n't brew alcohol with baker 's yeast and you ca n't leaven bread with brewer 's yeast .
They just use it for the lecithine . You can buy straight lecithine ( they normally sell soy-based lecithine , but maybe you should check with the producer to make sure it is vegetarian ) and dissolve some in the cream . Do n't bother replacing the fat , truffels have enough from other sources .
The Nordic Food Lab , founded by René Redzepi , has experimented with blood as egg substitute , full blog entry including recipes <URL> . Apparently texture-wise the substitution can be possible , but the typical bloody aftertaste is hard to mask , which might have to do with the physiological way the metallic taste is perceived . It seems especially women tend to recognize this ingredient quite easily .
end question
start question
Is there a definitive way to know if a tin can is lined with BPA ?
Probably not . Cans are generally marked at point of filling , not at point of manufacturing The plastic liner looks plastic ' y in all cases , it 's very hard to tell . Epoxy is harder than other plastics , but there are epoxies that are BPA free anyway Aluminium cans are more likely have a epoxy liner that will give off a trace of BPA Many steel cans do not use epoxy or other BPA plastics Having said that the tested BPA release from a can is 100 's of times lower than the recommended maximum daily dose . So in theory there is nothing to really worry about The common sense answer is , if epoxy dissolved into the cans contents they would n't use it would they . The whole reason it 's there is to stop the contents ' eating ' the can
If you 're buying bacon at the store , and trying to reduce the actual sodium in the product you 've just purchased - you 're out of luck . Like most things , you ca n't un-salt it . You can reduce the flavor , but in your case , the sodium is still there . Alternative options include : Buy reduced sodium bacon Make reduced sodium bacon Use less bacon , in order to reduce the total sodium intake .
While I suppose this is technically possible , I would never consider trying to make this substitution . Muffins are are form of quick bread . Their structure is based on gelatinized starch from the flour , leavened by chemical leavers such as baking powder or baking soda . In chiffon cakes , sponge cakes , and angel food cakes , the whipped egg whites or meringue form the primary basis of the structure as a foam with mechanically beaten in air . These batters are much much thinner than quick bread batters , generally , so that the other ingredients can be folded with the egg whites while maintaining the foam . Instead , I suggest you take a different approach : Find a better quick bread recipe -- there are many , many good <URL> recipes easily searchable . If you do n't find a muffin recipe you like , you can always use any banana bread recipe for muffins as well , since quick breads and muffins are the same thing , just baked in different shapes . Find a recipe for a <URL> or <URL> . You can always bake these recipes in cupcake form if you like . Finding a good coherent recipe will almost certainly by easier than trying to adapt a muffin recipe you are not happy with into something else . If you are really wanting to transform recipes more generally , you need to learn the basis on which they work . You might want to read <URL> , as a starting point -- however , the ratios of ingredients are only part of the story . The other part of the story is the method or technique by which they are prepared . In the world of cakes and muffins and quick breads , these include the muffin method , the creaming method , the <URL> , and -- I do n't know a general name for this method -- but the whipped egg whites folded with other ingredients technique . Each of these methods works optimally with different ratios of ingredients , but also achieves different outcomes with the same ingredients . So you would have to analyze the individual recipe , adjust the ratio of ingredients , and possibly modify the method by which the ingredients are prepared or combined . Frankly , to lighten a muffin recipe , I would first ask : are you measuring correctly ? Too much flour is going to lead to a dense outcome , and flour is very easy to mismeasure . I would suggest always baking by weight , not volume when you can . Reputable recipe sites for baked goods will tell you the weight of flour in addition to the volume measurement , or at least tell you what the standard weight of a cup of flour is . If no such guide is provided , I find that using a 4.5 oz ( US ) standard cup for flour is pretty generally successful . My second approach would be to very , very slightly increase the amount of baking powder , maybe by 1/4 tsp increments in two different trials . If that fails , you might try reducing the flour by 25 % or 50 % , but not increasing the number of eggs ; instead , change your method from the muffin method to the whipped egg white method , separating the eggs , whipping the egg whites , and then folding them into the other wet ingredients , then gently folding in the dry ingredients . Still , when you do these kinds of changes , you need to test your recipes , keep careful notes , and so on . I still would start by researching already tested recipes that achieve the outcome you desire .
Because as you are cooking your soup , water in your soup is evaporating away as steam . You might salt a soup perfectly halfway through , but after evaporation , your now thicker soup is too salty . When adding salt , wait until the end of the cooking process , as soups will reduce and concentrate the flavors as the liquid evaporates . [ Source : <URL> ]
Pickle recipes meant for longer-term storage will include instructions for sealing the jars . While some recipes may have you use hot jars and hot brine that will result in a fairly reliable seal ratio ( meaning most of the jars will properly seal ) , other recipes will have you put the filled and closed jars in a boiling water bath to be processed for a specific amount of time . I 've found this method to yield an even higher ratio of properly sealed jars . In either scenario , the sign of a sealed jar ( assuming you are using canning jars with a lid and ring system ) is an indented dome on the lid . Jars that do not seal properly will still have a protruding dome . Most recipes will have all the specific information you need to make pickles including the shelf life of sealed jars . The Ball canning jar company has a good website : <URL> Best of luck - I hope your pickles are a tasty success !
Depends on what you 're doing with them . Shallots have very fine layers ( allowing them to blend into sauces and dressings ) , and have a flavor between garlic and onions . If you 're mincing them fine and sauteeing them or whisking them in as the foundation for a sauce , I 'd suggest substituting pearl ( boiling ) onions or the white parts of green onions and maybe half a clove of minced garlic . If you 're slicing and frying them , regular onions should do , although I 'd look for smaller ones and slice thin . Red onions have a flavor more like shallots than yellow or white ones , but may add an undesireable color to the dish . If you 're chopping them , or cooking them peeled and whole for Southeast Asian cuisine , again pearl onions are probably the way to go .
Well , if you really want a " definitive " way to measure when lactic fermentation is complete , you 'd have to do a laboratory test directly for residual sugars . Most traditional foods that are lactic-acid fermented do n't have enough sugar to reach a final acidity that will self-limit continued fermentation by killing all the bacteria . ( Foods with too much sugar also often tend to spontaneously undergo yeast fermentation and lead to alcohol production instead if not monitored . ) Given the wide variety of fermentation products that can result from initial ingredients and different fermentation conditions , it 's really difficult to come up with some sort of " test strip " or something for residual sugar that is accurate . Home fermenters rarely bother with such things , but large-scale commercial fermentation sometimes tests residual sugar content for batches to ensure shelf-stability . That said , a specific recipe with specific starting ingredients will often have a target pH range , depending on the quantity of sugar in the ingredients , the amount of salt ( which in excess will inhibit further fermentation ) , desired flavor , etc. . The composition of the ingredients will determine the mininum possible pH when fermentation is effectively complete . The desired pH of lacto-fermented foods can vary anywhere from about 3.0 ( even down to ~ 2.75 for some sweet relishes ) to 4.5 ( more common in grain-based ferments , or quick-fermented vegetables meant to be used up quickly ) . To answer the specific question for sauerkraut , I 'd say most people would say sauerkraut fermentation is " complete " when a pH of ~ 3.5 or below is reached ( though opinions may vary ) . Part of the difficulty in answering the question is that home fermentation is often done with the intention of keeping the food " alive " even when it is consumed , which means fermentation will still be ongoing . In most traditional food cultures around the word , lactic acid fermentation is often deliberately incomplete , only used for a short period to transform an ingredient and then use it within a dish for consumption . This contrasts with much alcohol production , where continued fermentation in your final product can obviously create various difficulties for bottling , proper aging , etc. . And some people just prefer food at various earlier stages in the fermentation process . To take sauerkraut as an example , a pH of 4.0-4 .5 will be achieved rather quickly ( usually within a few days , depending on temperature , salt content , etc. ) . Some people prefer the taste of a fresher , crunchier product , and they may only ferment for a few days and then refrigerate to slow down fermentation significantly . Other people like to go much further and will ferment sauerkraut anywhere from a month to several months , again depending on temperature -- to achieve a final pH below 3.5 and even down to ~ 3.0 . Over time , the final product will obviously get more sour , but it will also soften and various nutritional changes will take place . It 's all a matter of preference when done at home . Lastly , in reference to the " lagering " aspect of the question , I think the closest analog in lacto-fermentation is the fact that various processes ( and various bacteria ) will work better at different temperatures . A higher temperature fermentation , for example , may result in a greater acetic acid component in the final ingredients , enhancing the " sharp " vinegar notes . At lower temperatures other bacteria may become more prominent in the fermentation , and in some temperature ranges enzymes and natural ( spoilage ) reactions may help to change flavor and texture too . Anyhow , for these reasons , some people prefer to refrigerate fermented foods or hold them for a while at " cold cellar " temperatures to allow these " aging " mechanisms to work as bacteria slow down ( analogous to lagering ) . Whether this is done after fermentation is effectively complete or at an earlier stage when the food is less sour again depends on individual preference .
According to <URL> , industrial and food grade CO2 generally come from the same plants : The slight difference between industrial-grade CO2 and food-grade CO2 is the type of tests that are done to qualify CO2 as beverage or beer gas-grade compared to industrial-grade . Currently , the FDA 's requirement for food-grade CO2 a 99.90 % purity rating . The other .09 % is made up of impurities such as hydrocarbons or nitrogen . Industrial grade CO2 is 99 % pure CO2 , also containing impurities such as hydrocarbons or nitrogen . However , the nature of those impurities extremely important . They go on to suggest : One impurity that all homebrewers should be aware of is benzene . Benzene is a no-no for homebrewers . If the CO2 that you are purchasing has high benzene levels , it will leave you and fellow drinkers with terrible headaches . When I say high levels , we are not talking about much . Benzene is usually an impurity that is referred to in PPB . The benzene level should be around 20 PPB . They suggest you ask for a profile of the impurities , although I suspect that Dick 's will be unable to comply . You will have to assess your own tolerance for risk , but you may better off seeking a more appropriate local vendor .
Marinading should help a great deal , especially a good long marinade . The only other thing you can do is make sure not to overcook the beef . Cutting against the grain does n't guarantee tenderness any more than any other method will , it just helps , so do n't worry too much .
By the wording of the question , I 'm pretty sure you 're using one of those pyramidal graters or a " sheet " grater . That 's great for getting the " bulk " , but if you want to grate a small amount of cheese ( or the last bit of a large amount , if you do n't want to just eat it ) then you really need to get yourself a <URL> . They 're more commonly used for fine/hard cheeses such as Parmesan , but most half-decent ones will come with a " coarse " blade that can be used for cheddar , mozzarella and so on . Rotary graters all have a plate at the top that lets you push the cheese down onto the blade . Higher-quality graters will give you slightly better results ; the $ 10 cheap ones tend to leave a mush at the bottom that 's hard to grate , even if you squeeze really hard , but that 's easily remedied with a small wooden block or really any object at all to put between the top plate and the cheese you 're trying to grate .
Cultured milk products rarely become unsafe . Yogurt in particular is so acidic and teeming with bacteria already that it ca n't really go bad per se . It will get moldy as others have said . I culture my own buttermilk , yogurt , kefir , cheese , etc. . Many times they stay on the counter for days at a time . They get more and more sour ( if they are the kind that incubate at room temperature ) but they ca n't really go bad . Even sour cream does n't become dangerous - the mold just tastes bad . To second what kajaco said : if I do have cultured dairy get too sour or moldy I will wipe off the mold and bake something with it . It should be noted that non-cultured milk is completely different . Of course it goes bad fast but after even a short time it is too bad to bake with . And never ever EVER use old milk to culture your own yogurt or cheese . The bad bacteria will overwhelm the good and you will end up with liquid that will haunt you in your nightmares ! -- Edit -- <URL> I did some research and it seems that they can eventually go bad . It does n't fit my experience but I 'll defer to the scientists . Trust your nose .
Probably not . Cans are generally marked at point of filling , not at point of manufacturing The plastic liner looks plastic ' y in all cases , it 's very hard to tell . Epoxy is harder than other plastics , but there are epoxies that are BPA free anyway Aluminium cans are more likely have a epoxy liner that will give off a trace of BPA Many steel cans do not use epoxy or other BPA plastics Having said that the tested BPA release from a can is 100 's of times lower than the recommended maximum daily dose . So in theory there is nothing to really worry about The common sense answer is , if epoxy dissolved into the cans contents they would n't use it would they . The whole reason it 's there is to stop the contents ' eating ' the can
First , I would suggest you buy a higher quality can opener . I have a Swing-A-Way that I inherited from my grandmother . I think it 's older than me . Second , do n't submerge the can opener in water every time you use it . I only full out wash it on the rare occasion I splash or drop something all over it . The rest of the time I just use my dishcloth to wipe the blade and handles clean and let it dry in the dish rack before putting it away .
By grinding it , you are also increasing the surface are of the herb when it reaches the tongue , and you are exposing the raw/inner ( bitter ) flavors of the herb to the mouth . When cooking with it " un-ground " , the cooking process extracts just the oils from the herb , and leaves the leaf in tact which does not taste unpleasant to the senses . I would certainly use less of a ground herb , but my preference would be to leave it in it 's natural dried state , and if you want more taste just increase the quantity . The only exception I have for this is when making rubs , where the fat of the meat ( or oil for a bread dip ) typically complements the bitter flavor of the ground herb .
It 's semantic nitpicking . Tofu is defined as soy milk , curdled and pressed . Some people who do n't care about oriental culinary tradition think of tofu as any non-dairy milk that is curdled and pressed into a curd . Technically your almond tofu would be almond milk curd or some such . In reality your coworker is being pedantic and I would accept the term " almond tofu " as a perfectly understandable , non oriental , colloquialism .
Cook it less , if you can . The more you cook it , the more you get that smell . Perhaps you are just more sensitive to it than most ; I do n't generally notice it until it 's overcooked by my standards . Along with this , cook it as fast as you can . The flavor you do n't like is produced by enzymes converting precursor molecules into those with the flavor . From On Food and Cooking : Heating cabbages and their friends has two different effects . Initially the temperature rise ... speeds the enzyme activity and flavor generation , with maximum activity around 140F/60C . The enzymes stop working altogether somewhere short of the boiling point . If the enzymes are quickly inactivated by plunging the vegetables into abundant boiling water , then many of the flavor precursor molecules will be left intact . ... If the cooking period is prolonged , then the constant heat gradually transforms the flavor molecules . Eventually the sulfur compounds end up forming trisulfides , which accumulate and are mainly responsible for the strong and lingering smell of overcooked cabbage . So as suggested by others , boiling instead of steaming to reduce cooking time helps . So does cooling quickly , with cold or ice water . Boiling in excess water will also leach some out , but you might also lose flavor you like . A couple other thoughts , also from On Food and Cooking . Cabbage family vegetables grown in the summer , and under drought stress , produce more of the flavor precursors , and those grown in the autumn and winter with less light and more water have less . They 're also more concentrated in the core of the vegetables . And for cabbage , you can remove a lot of them by chopping and soaking in cold water ; conceivably the same could work for broccoli , but again perhaps at the cost of desirable flavor .
You could try lightly steaming it , but in all likelihood there 's no rescuing . Your best bet is to chop it and throw it in a blender to ' grate ' it . Alternatively , blend it with maltodextrin/dextrose to ( re ) obtain the powdery quality .
Good Eats ( Alton Brown ) has some good descriptions of the various difference 's between potatos . He has an <URL> Main thing is the starch content in them . He has an example of each of the three groups ( High , Medium , Low ) , includign a brief description and sample application . He mentions mentions frying in the High Starch content group , specifically Russets . He then has another <URL> , where he actually talks about French Fries and again mentions the Russet ( High Starch ) . While you can make fries out of different types of potatoes ( some of the more " all purpose " potatoes ) , if you want a really good classic french fry , you 're going to want to look for a Russet , with a similar starch content . Here 's a <URL> . Maybe you can look to see what you bought ? The age will probably affect it . A younger potato will in fact be sweeter So , to answer your specific questions . I 'm betting you did in fact buy a potato . It 's probably just a sweeter variety . If it does n't say at the market where you bought it what kind they are , I 'd ask the people who work there . Also , look at the third link I have above , it does have a few pictures as well as good descriptions on what they look like .
The resource we generally use here on Seasoned Advice is <URL> . Feel free to edit this answer to include other resources .
Yes , if you have access to sous vide equipment you can make them in less than a day . Here is the process I followed and it worked perfectly . <URL>
end question
start question
What direction must one stir molten chocolate ?
In the time before electric mixing , chocolate , made by hand , sometimes required the effort of multiple people switching out as they tired , needed to work on some other task , or switched in and out cheaper laborers and experts during less or more critical stages of the process . Mixing chocolate in one direction is important not because there 's " one true direction " but because changing direction in the middle of a batch altered the quality of the chocolate due to turbulent flow . Thus large chocolate houses defined the specific direction they chose so if you had to stir a pot , you did n't have to ask the previous person which direction they chose , or guess . Everyone in that company stirred in the same direction . The direction itself did n't matter - the consistency of direction is what mattered . This is rarely an issue now . Few people eschew mechanical means of stirring , and one does n't switch machines in the middle of a batch - the machine does n't tire . But yes , some companies did adopt a consistent stirring direction that did improve their chocolate by reducing process turbulence .
The origin of chili con carne is actually from the American southwest , not Mexico . It 's tex-mex , not mex . There are many variations on chili con carne , however if you go back to the earliest known recipes cocoa or chocolate are not on them . It 's pretty basic , flavored mostly by cumin and chili . So if you want to make the most authentic chili to the origin then skip the cocoa . However , there are many good recipes out there which have chocolate or cocoa in them and they are as valid as any other , so it all comes down to personal taste . I add unsweetened cocoa powder to my chili because the bitterness balances out the acidity of the canned tomatoes , and I like the flavor combinations you get . The umami from the chocolate enhances the flavor , and I like the way it hits the tongue , it gives it more punch . Once I made a chili and split it into two , with one I added some cocoa powder , otherwise the chilis were identical . I served both and asked people which they liked better and the vast majority preferred the one with cocoa in it . You can also add a tsp or two of instance coffee instead although I do n't think it 's as good . Adding sweetened dark chocolate instead of cocoa powder works just as well , there 's no much difference except the chocolate adds a bit of sweetness . The main benefit of using chocolate rather than cocoa powder is that you can try different varieties , however as it 's just an undertone you are n't likely to notice . So it 's all down to taste .
The only way to test for capsaicin besides tasting is chemical testing , namely liquid chromatography . Problem is , the same kind of chili can be quite different in heat , even on the same bush it can be quite different from my experience . No idea why , though . Here is one tip on how to check the heat of a chili without actually eating part of it , but still cutting it apart : Cut through the chili below the stem , touch the membranes , touch your tongues , feel the heat . <URL> You can adjust the amount of heat a chili adds to the dish by removing the white membranes . Just add the colored flesh , check for heat , and add membranes until the desired spiciness is obtained . Capsaicin is only produced in the white mebranes in the center . It may move inside the fruit , though . Areas closer to the membranes will be hotter ( like , the seeds ) , than other parts .
Chocolate is a sol , consisting of solid particles suspended in cocoa butter . It is something similar to a hard emulsion . And it can separate just the way a liquid emulsion does ( think mayonnaise ) . This happens when you melt the cocoa butter completely , so the solid particles separate from the fat . If it happens to a chocolate bar , your chocolate looks grey . If it happens to a bowl of melted chocolate , the chocolate seizes the way you describe it . This happens with both milk and dark chocolate . If you have n't experienced it with milk chocolate before , you either had luck , or your milk chocolate was of a lesser quality than the dark one and contained non-cocoa fats and/or emulsifiers , which change the behavior of the sol . The only way to prevent seizing is to work within the correct temperature zone , which is extremely narrow ( 2-3 ° C ) . Even as an experienced confiseur , it is extremely hard to judge it intuitively . If you insist on trying to watch the chocolate and guess when it is OK , you will have inconsistent results , with a seizing once every few tries . What you need is to get a candy thermometer . Keep it in the chocolate and , whenever the temperature nears the danger zone , put the inner bain marie vessel in a basin of cold water you keep near the stove for this purpose . It will cool rapidly and stay tempered . It is n't a problem if you cool it off so much it hardens again ; you can remelt chocolate as often as you want as long as you never exceed the seizing temerature . And now for the numbers . All kinds of chocolate ( milk , white , bitter ) harden at 27 ° C. Between 27 ° C and 30 ° C , they are soft , but unworkable , because they are too viscous ( hold unpacked chocolate pieces in your hand for a while to see what I mean ) . The workable zone is 30 ° C to 32 ° C for milk ( and white ) chocolate , and 30 ° C to 33 ° C for dark chocolate . Above this , your cocoa fat melts and the chocolate seizes . So , keep an eye at the thermometer , as you see , the zones are narrow . Edit : I just noticed that you call 40 % " bitter " . This is a very low cocoa percentage , and I would n't let it go up to 33 ° C . The numbers for " bitter " are probably safe for 70 % cocoa and above .
Heating it up in the microwave will temporarily make it runnier , but then it will go back to its original consistency . Here are some ways that may work for you : Add some neutral flavored oil : just a bit though or it will get greasy Add chocolate syrup : chocolate syrup is very runny will thin it out while still keeping the chocolate flavor . Hershey 's is available in the US and UK , Tate and Lyle makes one in the UK . Not sure where you are but there will likely be something available If you ca n't find chocolate syrup try making a very thick chocolate milk with some cocoa powder or chocolate milk powder
Modern non-stick pans should not have problems with coatings flaking off . Spend $ 50 on a non-stick pan and it will last you for a very long time . Coatings on good pans should hold up to any non-metallic utensils . Very expensive pans suggest that you can hit them with a hammer and not hurt the surface .
Coffee goes well with hazelnut and has a slightly bitter note , so you could make a coffee infused crème pâtissière by simply folding in a shot or two of espresso ( or just some good strong coffee ) into whipped cream ( or make a coffee frosting ) .
I do n't want to disappoint you , but the sad truth is that extra virgin olive oil is unsuitable for all the cooking methods you mention . When you heat any oil past its smoking point it starts to deteriorate and can even become dangerous . Olive oil , extra virgin in particular , has a lower smoking point than most other oils . In fact , you will be better off with an olive oil of lesser quality . Such an oil will have been processed and thus purified , increasing its smoking point . You may think that butter is unhealthy , but at high temperatures it will actually withstand the heat better than extra virgin olive oil . Good oils for the purposes you mention are canola oil , sunflower oil , peanut oil , and grapeseed oil .
The percentage of milk-fat determines the name . It is different from region to region . In the US , heavy whipping Cream is above % 36 fat . You can see <URL> for the naming convention and fat content . For a chocolate mousse you 're generally looking for cream with fat contents between % 30 and % 40 . Otherwise you can get a phase-inversion in your mousse emulsion ( it break or collapses ) . There are Chocolate mousse recipes using butter instead of cream . It makes for a slightly different tasting chocolate mousse , but hey , it 's chocolate mousse . You may be able to cheat using an emulsifier such as soy lecithin to keep the emulsion stable . Gelatin does thicken things , but you 're likely to lose the air bubbles in the mousse and get a denser mix .
All of the following are generally cooked items : Shrimp , ebi , available raw in sashimi , but almost always lightly poached . The poaching brings out sweet and subtle flavors otherwise masked by a metallic tang . It also prevents the highly perishable shrimp from losing texture to spoilage . Octopus , tako , available raw in sashimi when sliced very thinly , but otherwise poached lightly . The poaching reduces toughness and brings out additional flavors in an otherwise bland meat . Eel , unagi , as you noted , is ALWAYS grilled , and steamed . This is necessary to achieve the truly transcendent flavor and texture of unagi . In fact , the cooking of eel is such a challenge that it is generally a whole separate chef profession in Japan . Most eel comes from one of the professionals , because sushi cooks know they will never be able to match the quality themselves . Improperly cooked eel becomes tough and has unpleasant flavors . Raw , the blood of eels is even toxic ! Sweet egg omelet , tamago , is by definition cooked . This is not to say that raw egg does n't have a place in Japanese food though ; tamago kake gohan is a dish of raw egg on rice , with soy sauce . Cockle is lightly poached Crab , kani is always cooked because ... well eating raw crab meat is just vile . For further reading , I highly suggest the <URL> . Food Safety : Sushi is only prepared from the very freshest and highest quality seafood , and sushi chefs are trained to identify parasites and signs of spoilage . In addition , some areas ( including the EU ) require sushi to be frozen for 24 hours to kill parasites . If that was n't enough to help settle your stomach , the pickled ginger and wasabi served along with sushi are more than garnish or simple condiments ! Both ginger and wasabi have potent and documented anti-microbial and anti-parasite properties . Ginger is also well-known for combatting nausea . Source : the CRC Handbook of Medicinal Spices , <URL> for wasabi and <URL> for ginger . ( links are to Google Books copy ) .
Chocolate is an odd substance when it comes to melting and hardening . When chocolate hardens , its melting point will end up being just a few degrees higher than the hardening temperature . When chocolate crystallizes at high temperatures , it forms a strong , dense crystalline structure that , texture-wise , is quite brittle . Most bought chocolate ( baker 's chocolate and chips ) is already tempered , but when you melt it , you break down that crystalline structure , and if you harden it at room temperature then it ends up forming very weak crystals that will melt in your hand . If you use a special coating chocolate ( couverture or the lower-quality compound chocolate ) then you do n't need to worry so much about tempering ( although it 's still a good idea ) , but if you use ordinary chocolate and do n't temper it then your coating will end up being messy and wet and rub off on your hands while you eat it . It might even melt while stored . Tempering is the key to making a room-temperature-stable chocolate coating . If you do n't do this , you 'll need to keep your pastries refrigerated until they 're ready to consume .
I make stir fry all the time and do the same thing as you . I would make extra , enough for 2 - 3 meals . The thing I do to prevent the vegetables from getting too mushy in the refrigerator is by cooking the stirfry about 75 % ( I make sure if I am doing this that the meat is fully cooked first ) and then take out the portion that I intend to refrigerate . This allows me to either finish cooking it in the microwave if I am taking it to work or reheat it up in the stove if I am staying home . Also since I am taking the portions from the upper part of the stirfry , there is less sauce that the vegetables will be steeping in so that should solve your problem of too much sauce . Another thing you should remember is that the types of vegetables you use makes a big difference . If you choose all vegetables that turns really soft when cooked ( onion , squash , peppers ) then reheated stirfry using those vegetables will be not as unpalatable . The trick is to use a variety of textured vegetables . Also I dont want to state the obvious but if your problem is your sauce , have you ever tried using a different ( lighter ) sauce recipe ?
You 're going to have to start over with new chocolate . I 'm sorry to say it but there 's no way to remove the salt from the chocolate .
They just use it for the lecithine . You can buy straight lecithine ( they normally sell soy-based lecithine , but maybe you should check with the producer to make sure it is vegetarian ) and dissolve some in the cream . Do n't bother replacing the fat , truffels have enough from other sources .
Baking soda also raises the PH of the product resulting in better browning . Soda can be left out . Many recipes - especially for chewier cookies - do n't call for any leavening besides the eggs . <URL> Cookie recipes often call for the dough to be chilled so that it spreads less in the oven before it sets . This creates a taller , less crispy cookie . Cookie recipes do n't typically have very much water in them for the soda to dissolve into . Much of the water is tied up in the butter and wo n't be available until the dough melts in the oven .
A chocolate souffle should be warm and gooey in the middle , if it is solid throughout it has been cooked too long . It sounds like you have it right , I would n't change it . If you want to prove it to her do a google image search on chocolate souffle , you 'll see what the result should look like .
Many , many things happen when flour flour is mixed into batter . From your description , though , it sounds like you are interested in what leads to and relieves clumping . When water ( whether it is just plain water , in milk , in juice , or whatever ) and flour are mixed , the water will begin to expand and penetrate the starch granules in the flour . The starch will swell , and become sticky . Now , imagine a small clump of flour , with water penetrating from the outside . The outside surface of the flour clump will swell up as the starches become staturated with water . They are also sticky , so they tend to not separate -- the surface sticky flour tends to stick to its neighbors and the flour on the inside . Once the outside surface of the clump is saturated with water , it is very hard for more water to penetrate the clump , so it tends to persist . The main way to mitigate this clumping is to stir vigorously , immediately upon introducing the flour and liquid . This will tend to distribute the flour particles throughout the liquid before significant swelling occurs . This is why when making a flour slurry , you whisk or beat it quite briskly right away . Additionally , slowly over time , water will also penetrate the clumps , slowly swelling and hydrating the starches in the center , but then you tend to have quite sticky lumps , like in lumpy gravy , and those are nearly impossible to dissolve , so you do n't want that to happen . Immediate agitation is the key . In the batter you describe , it is probably the additional mixing more than the the additional flour that relieves the clumping . You have said that it does n't happen until the flour is added , but it may be that the additional volume just makes your mixer more efficient since it has more to work with . Still , nothing is simple . If you have a lot of water , and a little flour , stirring easily creates a slurry without lumps . If you have a much larger ratio of flour to water , there is n't enough water to make a liquid phase , and so you get clumps . Within limits , over time , the water will distribute itself throughout the flour phase , and you will get a continuous mass of dough . This is what happens ( ignoring the effects of shortening for flakiness ) in a pie dough , for example , which is quite dry . It needs the resting time for the water to hydrolyze the starches , and spread evenly throughout , so what you have is one moderately hydrated clump , as it were . This is only a the tip of the iceberg of complexity that is just flour and water . The ratio , the temperature , the type of flour , the way it is treated all matter . The interaction of starch and water is only one important interaction . Another very important and complex interaction is the formation of glutin ( a strong , stretchy protein that forms the primary structure in yeast-raised breads , among may other things ) over time in the presence of water , and with agitation ( as in kneading bread ) .
They are not equivalent cuts and ' should not ' be used interchangeably . Stir Fry meat is cut from the more tender cuts of beef ( tri-tip , sirloin , rib-eye ) and do n't require much time cooking to be ' ready to eat ' . Stew Beef is from less tender cuts ( the Chuck or Eye of Round ) which will become tender after a ' significant ' time braising ( cooking in liquid ) . That said ... the food police wo n't show up at your door if decide to interchange these , and using stir fry beef for stew is n't a terrible thing to do ... but you will likely not be happy if you try to switch the other way .
Recipes As far as salsa recipes go , they 're all over the web . Check sites like <URL> or <URL> - - or <URL> ! Shelf Life Refrigerator . With regard to shelf life , according to <URL> , you 're only going to get 5-7 days out of fresh salsa in the refrigerator . Freezer . The same source says you can keep it for 1-2 months in the freezer . Use containers meant for storing frozen foods ( they make plastic lidded containers for this very purpose ) , and leave " headspace " in the container ( room for expansion as the liquid freezes ) . If you opt for freezing , you can use any recipe you 'd like . Food safety wo n't be an issue so much as quality would . For example , I would not recommend freezing a <URL> , though it 's great fresh . Canning . You also could pressure can your salsa . <URL> is the best resource to learn to can . If you opt for canning , be sure to follow a trusted canning recipe - you ca n't just can any old recipe . I would use one off the National Center 's site . Cost Comparison It all depends on what you make and the price of your ingredients , of course . If I can get cheap salsa at cost X and expensive , tasty salsa and cost 2X , my goal in making my own is to achieve great taste at a cost less than 2X . My homemade blueberry jam costs me about $ 2 per jar , much more expensive than generic jam ; however , good blueberry jam is about $ 5 at the store . Incidentally , I 'll be making salsa this summer once I can get lots of cheap tomatoes . Keep an eye on jessica.mcrackan.com late in the summer if you 'd like some real examples and cost comparisons .
easiest way is to mix it with the sauce and heat both up together . Usually I 'd do this in a pan , but you could use a microwave . If you have to heat the pasta up on its own , what I usually do is do it in a pan and add a little boiling water , just a couple of tablespoons , enough to stop it sticking , and keep stirring until its warmed through . If it starts to stick add a little more water . You could do this in a microwave I 'd bet , but I do n't have one .
end question
start question
How to keep pumpkin fresh for a long time ?
According to the <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Freezing is the easiest way to preserve pumpkin , and it yields the best quality product . Select full-colored mature pumpkin with fine texture ( not stringy or dry ) . Wash , cut into cooking-size sections and remove seeds . Cook until soft in boiling water , in steam , in a pressure cooker , or in an oven . Remove pulp from rind and mash . To cool , place pan containing pumpkin in cold water and stir occasionally ( So Easy to Preserve , 2006 ) . Pack into rigid containers leaving headspace , and freeze . They offer suggest a variety of cooking methods before freezing the flesh of the pumpkin , but you may find that roasting offers the least work and best flavor development . Pressure canning of cubed ( but not mashed or pureed ) pumpkin is also possible ( as pumpkin is a low acid fruit , boiling water canning is not appropriate ) . You should use only a <URL> if you choose to go this route . You can also make <URL> , although this does not to leave the pumpkin suitable for many recipes , and is only suitable if this the actual product you desire .
It depends on the meat and how it 's cut . A ' solid ' uncut piece like a pork loin will take longer to marinade properly than if it was cut into thin strips for stir frying , for example - I 'd want to marinade the former at least 7-8 hours , while the latter could probably get away with 1 .
Not all turkeys are the same , and personally , I would not risk letting an entire turkey go rancid in the refrigerator . There is so much you do n't know about this turkey : How was it butchered ? In particular , how long was it sitting on the block and was it packed immediately afterward or left sitting out for a long time ? How quickly was it cooled down to " transporting " temperature after butchering ? Was it transported immediately , or was it stored for a while before transport , and if so , what were those storage conditions ? How specifically was it transported ? What were the environmental conditions , aside from temperature ? Was it exposed to air ? Could it have picked up any other contaminants ? Just how cold was the refrigerator at Trader Joe 's ? Are you sure that it 's consistently that cold ? What if the turkey was shifted around ? For example , what if some other customer picked it up , tossed it in a shopping cart , then after an hour of shopping decided to put it back ? How did she transport it ? I 'm guessing in a non-temperature-controlled trunk ? How long was it in that condition/environment before finally making it into the fridge ? Was the temperature in the fridge turned down as far as it can go long before putting the turkey in there ? If not , how long might it have taken to get down to the desired temperature , especially with a massive slightly-warmed-up turkey in there ? How cold does her refrigerator get ? Is it a new refrigerator ? Are you both certain that it gets as cold as the rep at TJ 's is assuming ? Have you actually stuck a thermometer in there to measure the environmental temperature around where the turkey would be stored ? I 'm not expecting you to answer any of these ; my point is just that there are so many variables , so many things that can go wrong , and the quoted 10-day storage period ( as well as the sell-by date ) is for storage under ideal conditions . I 've seen turkeys go rancid in the fridge after just 2 days . I 've seen others take longer , but still far less than 10 days to go rancid . It 's an incredibly frustrating and completely avoidable experience . Just put it in the freezer ! She just needs to make sure she gives it a couple of days to thaw in the fridge , due to the size of the bird . A half-frozen turkey on Thanksgiving day is almost as useless as a rancid one .
It 's safe . All that matters for safety is that the food stays out of the danger zone ( above 140F ) . But it sounds like a pretty reliable way to overcook things . Perhaps that 's why it sounds absurd to you ? Slow cookers tend to be somewhere between simmer and light boil ( probably at least 180F ) , and there 's very little that wo n't be fully cooked after half a day at those temperatures . If you cook for days , you 'll start turning beans and vegetables to mush , and may manage to make meat tough from overcooking . So at best it 's pointless , and at worst it 's going to mess up your food .
Since it is a custard , you should probably refrigerate it as soon as it is cool . A very sugary or acidic custard may be able to resist bacteria for a couple days ( see Bismark donuts ) , but unless the recipe was specifically developed to be stable at room temperature , then there is some risk of it going bad . If you have a fridge , there 's no reason not to use it . It may make the dough a little soggy , so you will want to find a way to store it to reduce condensation . Better yet , make just as much as you are going to eat/serve at one time , and do n't worry about this problem . <URL> <URL>
I have n't really experimented , but if imagining how dry that stuff is and the amount of salt that goes inside one those , I would say in the months/years range . Just keep it in a cool dry place . .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
I do n't think anything will be wrong with that milk . If it 's fresh milk , which I doubt , you should consume it in less than three days . If it 's pasteurized milk , which is much more likely , it 'll be unaffected . Signs of spoilage are a sour smell and sour taste . You should make a habit of always smelling your milk ( food ) before drinking ( eating ) it . If it does n't smell like you 'd expect , taste it . If it does n't taste like you 'd expect , ditch it . Milk is cultivated with lactobacillus , a bacteria that 's beneficial for us . So , even though milk may taste sour , it does n't mean that it 's undrinkable . In Holland , there 's sour-milk ( karnemelk ) , that some people consume ( I do n't like it , myself ) . Under the right circumstances , milk will turn into yogurt , thanks to the lactobacillus ... At any rate , if in doubt , throw it out .
<URL> The link states it can be kept uncut for 2-3 weeks in the fridge , while cut pieces can last up to 5 days . I think since it 's a root it should hold up much like a carrot or turnip or other like fleshed vegetable .
The cheesecake kept for 1 year just fine with no discernible off flavors or other problems . I 'm a homebrewer and we wound up putting the cheesecake into the freezer section of our spare ' beer fridge ' . That freezer is pretty much only used for overflow freezer space , and the refrigerator section is used for beer bottles and kegs , and we have had a few apples in the crispers for most of the year , but that 's it . The freezer section was rarely opened more than once per week . The cheesecake had no off flavors , and only had light water crystallisation on the surface , which was not at all detrimental to our enjoyment of the cake . This was a plain ' real ' cooked cheesecake with graham cracker crust . So , for a ' good enough ' storage method , wrap loosely in foil and store in a freezer that is rarely used , and the cheesecake should be excellent for at least one year .
I 'll bet the rent that they were n't baked completely dry . Moisture made it to the crust overnight as happens with crunchy bread crust going leathery .
According to the <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Freezing is the easiest way to preserve pumpkin , and it yields the best quality product . Select full-colored mature pumpkin with fine texture ( not stringy or dry ) . Wash , cut into cooking-size sections and remove seeds . Cook until soft in boiling water , in steam , in a pressure cooker , or in an oven . Remove pulp from rind and mash . To cool , place pan containing pumpkin in cold water and stir occasionally ( So Easy to Preserve , 2006 ) . Pack into rigid containers leaving headspace , and freeze . They offer suggest a variety of cooking methods before freezing the flesh of the pumpkin , but you may find that roasting offers the least work and best flavor development . Pressure canning of cubed ( but not mashed or pureed ) pumpkin is also possible ( as pumpkin is a low acid fruit , boiling water canning is not appropriate ) . You should use only a <URL> if you choose to go this route . You can also make <URL> , although this does not to leave the pumpkin suitable for many recipes , and is only suitable if this the actual product you desire .
You may use all sorts of pumpkins and squashes ( a Cucurbita moschata or Cucurbita pepo may be called either , depending on variety ) to make a pie . The Halloween types may not be the best choice : they tend to be stringy , not very sweet , and sometimes over treated with pesticides . Instead look for the small varieties ( around 5 lbs . ) called Sugar , Long Pie , or Trickster . When making the pumpkin pur&eacute;e for a pie from scratch it is important to deal with the water content of the pumpkin . After you <URL> , you may need to use a cheesecloth to wring the pur&eacute;e .
That is wax , it 's done to help keep the moisture in the root . Turnips are also . You know it 's getting along when it gets soft and spongy or when the skin starts to wrinkle , same with turnips , beets , parsnips , carrots ... You pretty much can tell whether they are good or not in exactly the same ways . Are the firm and crisp or soft , flabby and spongy ?
Hmm . I would say that pumpkins maybe have a slight bit of acidity , but I would never think of them as distinctly sour . I suppose it could be the variety you are using . Also , taste your stock by itself to make sure it is n't contributing an unwanted sour note . All of that said , it may just be one of those expectation things . We are used to pumpkin in a sweet context , and your brain wants that little bit of sugar there to match the template , so it seems sour without it . If you really want to test this out further , try making a small batch of the same recipe with no spices and plain water to see if it is truly the pumpkin that seems sour to you .
Yes , you would remove the peas from the pods . <URL> shows how to do it efficiently . And no , the pods are not normally eaten , although according to <URL> you can .
The excellent <URL> to the question <URL> points out that one of the key reasons for using applesauce in quick bread type recipes such as pancakes is the pectin . Pumpkin <URL> contains pectin . Therefore pumpkin should provide a similar effect on your recipe as the applesauce . What the pumpkin puree wo n't provide is the sugar that applesauce provides . You will likely want to up the sugar provided by your recipe to account for this , unless you routinely use unsweetened applesauce . The water content between pumpkin puree and applesauce will also be different , as will the exact proteins . I would suggest starting with a one to one replacement of pumpkin for applesauce for a very pumpkin-y taste , but you will have to experiment . You will also want to add sugar to taste . If you want a more subtle flavor , consider substituting only part of the applesauce with pumpkin .
The technique that many restaurants will use is to prepare the pasta ahead of time and store it in or on ice water . The chilled pasta may be then submerged briefly in boiling water and served .
I sometimes steam asparagus before sautéing on a high heat with some lemon juice to get some caramelization on the outside of the asparagus . You could adapt this idea to the grill by sealing the asparagus in tin foil with a little water and steaming for four minutes ( for finger thick spears ) . Then give them a bit of colour by placing them directly over the grill for a minute .
Not very long . Steaming is a better choice over boiling , but that can be kinda tough in a home environment . Here is the method I have used successfully with lobster for years , with a slightly shorter cooking time . Defrost your crab legs first , of course . Gently , in the fridge overnight . Arrange your defrosted crab legs in a heatproof container . Bring enough water to a hard rolling boil to completely cover all of your seafood . ( Ensure that the water is salted , of course ; as a rule of thumb it should be approximately as salty as the ocean . ) After you are at a hard rolling boil , pour the water over the crab legs , cover tightly with foil ( or a lid ) immediately , and leave alone for seven minutes , eight if the legs are particularly thick . Remove from the water and eat . You may optionally add other ingredients into the container with the crab : dill , fennel fronds , roughly sliced lemons ( or any citrus ; I love lime with crab ) , peppercorns , bay leaves , tarragon ... the possibilities are functionally endless .
end question
start question
What is the difference between baking soda and baking powder ?
Normal double-acting baking powder makes CO2 ( thus giving a rising effect ) in two ways : when it gets wet , and when it is heated . Baking soda only makes CO2 when it gets wet . From Wikipedia : The acid in a baking powder can be either fast-acting or slow-acting . [ 6 ] A fast-acting acid reacts in a wet mixture with baking soda at room temperature , and a slow-acting acid will not react until heated in an oven . Baking powders that contain both fast - and slow-acting acids are double acting ; those that contain only one acid are single acting . By providing a second rise in the oven , double-acting baking powders increase the reliability of baked goods by rendering the time elapsed between mixing and baking less critical , and this is the type most widely available to consumers today.to consumers today . See : <URL>
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
Yes , recipes need to be changed as well . The most important [ IMHO ] difference is leavening ( yeast/baking powder/soda etc. ) The next issue is ratios , once you get beyond ' doubling ' a home recipe your ratios will get out of sync . When you multiply dry ingredients ( other than yeast ) do so By Weight rather than dry measure . ( note for sugars in a yeast leavened recipe : sugar is often ' treated as ' a ' wet ingredient ' , still multiply by weight , this will provide the correct amount of food for the yeast ) Rule of thumb for yeast baking is to multiply everything but DO NOT multiply the yeast for doing 2X or 4X . When you are increasing the recipe by 8X you double the original amount of yeast . Your rising time may increase but that also happens with temperature variations . Rule of thumb for chemical leavening is to multiply carefully ALL ingredients . If using baking soda and acid , sift the baking soda with flour and mix the acid ( vinegar , lemon juice , sour milk ) with other liquid ingredients . That way you do n't lose rising power when mixing more dough . But for chemical leavening , you have to bake the mix without it sitting around . So you might weigh and set up 4X , 4X , 4X if you need 12X yield . [ from <URL> Home sized recipes can usually only be doubled safely . Beyond that , due to rounding , the ratios within the recipe will get out of sync . We have a number of pro resources here , take a look : <URL> ( <URL> ) These are , obviously , only ' general guidelines , your mileage may vary with any given recipe .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
I 've only heard of massaging kale . If you rub the greens together they get softer , darker and more tender and useable in a salad . Never done it with anything else . Wilted is steamed or blanched greens . Wilting definitely changes the texture and can make the greens more palatable and less bitter . I wo n't eat raw collards . I also always salt and squeeze my cooked spinach before using as it knocks out the bitterness .
Both crispy and caramelized onions are cooked for a long time , and will be very brown . However , they are cooked slightly differently . Caramelized onions are usually cross-cut on the onion to release its moisture , and then cooked over very low heat in a crowded pan , stirring infrequently , so that they gradually release their sugars and liquid and it turns to caramel . Depending on the onions and desired result , you may even cover them , an add a little liquid and/or sugar . The end result is very soft and very sweet . Arabic-style crispy onions are cut pole-to-pole in order to avoid rupturing cells in the onions . They are then fried over medium heat in an uncrowded pan , stirring regularly . This lets them dry out and become brown and crispy , even burning on thin ends . These onions should be a mix of crispy and chewy , and more savory than sweet .
There are many styles of burger , so there is no single answer . Steamed sliders are going to have different constraints than a smashed burger compared to a pub style burger . For burgers that are griddled ( for the purposes of this post , cooked on a hot , flat surface ) , the main issue is how much heat can get into the burger , and how fast ; secondarily , there are issues of sticking and general maintainability . Some hamburger cooking methods rely on sustainable , very high heat to sear the outside of the burger , and give a good crust , even while maintaining a less cooked intererior . This is dependent mostly on the total thermal mass of the pan . Stone - Lots of mass , but low thermal mass . Does n't transmit heat very fast . Also requires considerable care and maintenance to prevent sticking . Pan - There are so many types , it is hard to give a single characterization . Thicker , heavier metal tends to be better . See <URL> for some general advice . Cast Iron - Generally has high weight , and very good thermal conductivity ( compared to any non-metal ) , so often ideal for high temperature searing of hamburgers . Requires seasoning and maintenance . Charcoal ( or propane ) grill -- can develop extremely hot radiant heat , which is ideal for some forms of burger cookery , but can not be done inside . However , there are so many different types of tools and styles of burger , the quality of outcome is going to depend on your skill , what you are trying to achieve , and how you use the equipment you have as much as the specific pan that you use . Similarly , the flavor is going to depend , not only on how you cook ( which can develop the seared , brown , meaty flavors ) , but how you season the meat , and the quality of meat you start with . This is again as important as the particularly pan that you might use .
I had to consult my copy of Bread Baker 's Apprentice by Peter Reinhart to be sure , but here is a quote : There are two types of firm , or dry , pre-ferments and two types of wet pre-ferments . The firm pre-ferments are known as pâte fermentée and biga . The wet pre-ferments are called poolish and levain levure . ... Biga , an italian style of firm pre-ferment , differs from pâte fermentée in that it does n't have any salt in it . Also , rather than cutting off a piece of finished bread dough to hold back as an improver , a biga is made specifically to be used as a pre-ferment . So , it seems the main difference lies in the hydration of the dough , where a poolish is made with a ratio of equal water and flour . There also seems to be a few other differences . A biga apparently uses .5 percent yeast to flour , while a poolish uses .25 percent . Mr Reinhart does not say anything about a concrete difference in final result between these methods - just that a ' wet ' pre-ferment is faster . Faster in the sense that in the same time-frame a poolish will develop more flavor and character than a dry pre-ferment . Sadly I 've personally only used a wet pre-ferment , since it is easier to handle . Just whisk it prior to bed time with a wire whisk and mix in the rest of the ingredients the next day . Having a full blown dough makes it more difficult to incorporate the rest of the ingredients .
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
Baking powder , especially if too great a quantity is used , adds an unpleasant flavor to a baked good . Even in an appropriate quantity it can be noticeable and it certainly does n't do anything to enhance the flavor . Many baked goods traditionally do n't use a chemical leavener at all , but instead rely on technique . Creaming butter and sugar together or whipping egg whites was historically used to make cakes which rose solely based on the bubble network that was created . Yeast , on the other hand , creates a delightful flavor that you associate with your favorite crusty loaf of bread . Yeast can be used not only in making bread but also in some excellent cakes ( <URL> , for example , although many " knock off " recipes cheat here and miss out on the true goodness ) . Yeast also provides a significantly different texture during the rising due to the intentional creation of a gluten network ( usually something you absolutely do n't want in a quick bread or quick cake ) -- you do n't get a crumb with big , airy holes from baking powder or baking soda with an acid . Also , in my experience baking powder lasts six months in the pantry and yeast lasts at least six months in the fridge . The shelf life is not so different . If yeast scares you , you may want to check out some of the proponents of the <URL> technique . For a lot more information on this subject , there is a recent publication that covers all sorts of <URL> .
Harold McGee tackled alkaline noodles a while back . He found that baking baking soda actually changes it from sodium bicarbonate to sodium carbonate . This is a reasonable substitute for the kansui called for in alkaline noodles and can be substituted 1:1 in recipes . The noodles may not get AS yellow as they would with both alkalines present in kansui but it 's a small price to pay for not having to hunt down that ingredient . <URL> The key part : Just spread a layer of soda on a foil-covered baking sheet and bake it at 250 to 300 degrees for an hour . You 'll lose about a third of the soda 's weight in water and carbon dioxide , but you gain a stronger alkali . Keep baked soda in a tightly sealed jar to prevent it from absorbing moisture from the air . And avoid touching or spilling it . It 's not lye , but it 's strong enough to irritate .
春卷 ( Chūnjuǎn , Spring rolls ) are julienned vegetables , sometimes with a bit of noodles , sometimes with a bit of minced meat , wrapped with a flour dough skin and pan - or deep-fried . They are a filled roll . You can see the different varieties by country here : <URL> Spring roll : 鸡蛋卷 ( Jīdàn juǎn , Egg rolls ) are many different things around the world . In Chinese communities , these typically refer to a sweet biscuit type roll , of hollow flaky egg pastry ( not filled . ) However , there is also another variety ( common in American Chinese cuisine ) where a flour dough wrap is filled with " pork , shrimp , or chicken , adding cabbage , carrots , bean sprouts and other vegetables , and then deep fried . " In the American Chinese respect , I believe it is very similar to a Spring roll really , although the flour dough looks thicker and of a different composition than a typical Spring roll ( the dough bubbles when deep-fried , with Spring roll skin it does not . ) <URL> Sweet egg roll : American Chinese egg roll :
Kosher salt is pure , like table salt , but without any iodine and ( usually ) without any anti-caking agents . Kosher salt crystals are also coarse , but flat , which makes them easy to dissolve or season/coat meat . Unprocessed sea salt is simply coarse ; the shape of the crystals ( whole or ground ) does not stick to meat particularly well and the impurities make it harder to dissolve properly in water . It does n't usually have minerals added ( unless it 's a really cheap kind possibly made from pre-iodized table salt ) , it just does n't have minerals removed like table salt . Kosher salt and sea salt are definitely not the same thing . Kosher salt can come from seawater , like sea salt , but the " kosher " part is all about the size and shape of the crystals , not their source . Sea salt is not a good idea for brining . It 's expensive and inefficient , and by the time the meat is cooked , any distinctness of flavour will have completely disappeared . Some of the minerals may even burn , depending on the cooking method . Instead , use kosher salt or table salt for brining and add sea salt as a seasoning afterward if you want . Using sea salt for cooking , brining , or other preparation is simply wasting it .
The baking powder does very little to the roti . If you are making them to eat as soon as they are done , there is no need for baking powder . I assume you are asking about <URL> , which are flat breads with no yeast leavening , very similar to flour tortillas . There are many publications that have studied the effects of chemical leavening agents on wheat Mexican tortillas ( which are similar or even identical to chapatis ) . They all find that <URL> , not worth it in my opinion . For a fluffier tortilla , more critical than the baking powder is , when cooking , to get both surfaces done and dry as fast as possible , so that they may act as a barrier to the steam that develops inside . In commercial settings this is achieved by hot-pressing the dough . Commercial chapatis and tortillas manufacturers have to fight staling -- the drying and toughening -- and I imagine that every little improvement counts .
Sugar has a few effects in bread : It helps make it soft and tender by absorbing some of the water and slowing down the formation of gluten strands . It feeds the yeast , resulting in a faster rise . Via caramelisation , it aids in the browning of the crust . It acts as a preservative , keeping the bread fresher for longer ( though 1tbsp probably does n't make a lot of difference ) . It does have some effect on the flavour .
The right size is important , because baking times are designed for a specific batter thickness . If a recipe is meant for a 26 cm pan and you pour the whole batter in a 18 cm pan , it will be much thicker and the middle wo n't get done before the top burns . That is why high cakes are made by stacking layers , not by baking one high cake . You can pour a batch of batter into multiple small cups and have it turn out all right as long as the height stays more or less the same as it would have been in the large pan . My advice is to calculate the area of the pan given in the recipe and the area of your silicone cups , so you can know how many cups to use . You do n't have to be completely precise , for the average cake it is not too terrible if you have + -0.5 cm difference in batter height . If the difference is larger , you can still get good results , but you should adjust the baking time . The resulting cupcakes will still have the thickness of the normal cake , or somewhat more if you use less cups and bake accordingly longer . I would advise against trying to bake high-rise muffins from normal cake recipes . Even a sponge cake recipe might need some adjustment of the amount of baking powder before working as a high muffin . Other types of cake , especially the more exotic ones ( genoise , flourless cakes ) are unlikely to bake well if you fill them into deep cups .
Chapathi or Roti is made from wheat flour usually in all of the Indian homes . Chapathi is usually bigger in size than Phulka . both sides are cooked on pan . Some people apply oil/ghee after completely cooking it but when it is not on the pan but while eating . Roti / chapati is usually not made to swell up , especially if it is rolled comparatively thick . Bubbles do appear in the roti / chapati when steam forms in some places . The word ' Roti ' is used commonly in north , central and east India , whereas ' Chapati ' is used more in west ( Mumbai ) , and south India . Only in south India Chapati is fried in a bit of oil ! Elsewhere , only a Paratha is fried with oil or ghee Paratha is something which can be stuffed paratha or non stuffed paratha . Stuffed parartha is like Aloo Paratha , Methi Paratha and it is cooked on a pan too but oil/ghee/butter is applied while cooking on a pan . Non stuffed paratha is you make a puree of spinach or fenugreek with different spices and add it while preparing the dough itself . And then it is cooked on pan . Paratha ( plain , folded or stuffed ) is made from an unleavened dough of wholewheat flour , and shallow fried with a little oil / ghee / butter . Parathas generally stay soft and moist even when cold . Yes , certainly sometimes meaning differs with context to people and region , though there may not be much difference in preparing it.Triangle Shape has nothing to do with the Taste or Texture , it deals more with Presentation . Oil indeed influences the flavor &amp; texture of dough . The " moistness " of the Parathas - the soft texture - is actually from oils and fats . Adding in extra fat , such as oil , butter , shortening , makes the Parathas seem extra moist and soft .
Unfortunately , some of the answer depends on how you define " bacon " , and what you mean by " cured " , and " uncured " . The answer could be different depending on where you live . Are you in the UK ? The USA ? Another country ? I know that what we call bacon can be from different cuts of pork in different regions . Curing can be different depending on where you live , or what flavors the person doing the curing likes to use . There will be salt involved in the curing , and again , depending on where you live and the customs/regulations involved , and often some source of nitrate or nitrite , to prevent some nasty bacteria . A pleasant side effect of these additions is the deepening of the red/pink color many of us associate with bacon , though some of the redness of the meat is based on the diet of the animal , too . ( Whether from saltpeter , or curing salt ( a purposely colored curing salt , to distinguish it from white sodium chloride ) , or celery juice , which contains a high quantity of the same chemicals , the nitrates and nitrites are added in very tiny quantities . They do n't need much , and are usually in smaller concentrations than are found naturally in water and in leafy green vegetables ) What makes the cures taste different ( besides the saltiness ) is the other kinds of herbs , spices , and sweeteners used in the cure mixture , and whether or not the bacon is smoked , to add additional flavors . Texture wise , the main difference between cured and uncured bacon is that the uncured bacon will have a much higher water content than the cured bacon , so the fat will not be as dense .
The short answer to your question is YES . The extra acid in the ingredients will hamper the second act of the double acting baking powder . The acids are timed/staged for reaction not the baking soda . The Magic Baking Powder ( happens to be in our kitchen , too ) is mostly a single acting formula since monocalcium-phosphate is a low temperature acid ( with apparently some double acting properties due to generation intermediate step of dicalcium phosphate ; per your link ) . High temperature acid for second acts typically include sodium aluminium sulfate , sodium aluminum phosphate and sodium acid pyrophosphate . You can try to counteract that by adding a bit of baking soda , but you run the risk of altering the taste and not having it all neuralized . If you really want to get pedantic , use a pH meter to measure the acidity of your dough . I suspect tasting the dough might give an indication as well . ( bitter alkaline , sour acidic ) Another test might be to mix your acidic ingredients in a bowl with some water and start adding measured baking soda until you see no more reaction ( bubbles ) and use that as a your basic of neutralizing your dough . All said and done , I agree with SAJ14SAJ that you 'll be just fine going with the existing recipe . There should be enough baking soda left to get something out of your double act . I also heard it from a world-class baker that most recipes can be done with only baking soda , let alone baking powder or double acting ones .
Whipped cream is whipping cream after it has been whipped . Whipping cream is just cream with at least 30 % fat content ( that would be called Light Whipping Cream in the US ) . Heavy Whipping Cream contains at least 36 % fat and up to 40 % and rarely ( in the US ) even higher . Until these creams are whipped , they are just liquid . After they are whipped , they 're fluffy . A way to know that whipped cream is " done " is that it holds " peaks " , like in the first picture . Higher fat cream will thicken more readily , and hold its structure longer . Other countries use different terms for various levels of fat in cream . <URL> Whipped Cream : Whipping cream :
end question
start question
What are the crunchy bits on top of Thai mango with sticky rice ?
Aha ! Found the answer myself ! <URL> includes the step " Garnish with toasted sesame seeds or fried salty mung beans . " -- I googled " fried salty mung beans " and found the picture below , which is exactly what I was looking for :
This <URL> , which wipes right off and is indeed harmless , is called the " bloom " of the grape or sometime the " blush " . As described <URL> , ( the wiki for Fermentation in winemaking ) , it contains trace amounts of natural yeast , though thought to be the result of ambient yeast rather than the result of growth process proper . <URL> we find a more thorough answer , It 's mostly harmless wax , says Kay Bogart , a winemaker who works in outreach for the University of California at Davis 's viticulture program . The grape plant produces it to protect the berries from moisture loss . It 's also often just plain old dust , adds Jim LaMar , a professor of wine sensory evaluation at California State University , Fresno . Until recently , winemakers believed the white stuff was yeasts , responsible for wine fermentation . Now they believe such yeasts are airborne . In any case , that white stuff is n't pesticide residue . Which is not to say that there is n't pesticide residue on the grape , so wash it anyway before you pop it into your mouth . In the book Caravaggio : A Life Sacred and Profane by Andrew Graham-Dixon , we find of Roman mythology the following statement regarding Bacchus , the ancient god of wine and intoxication , The bloom on the grapes , which dusts them with a layer of whiteness and dulls the reflected light caught in their opalescent skins , is echoed by the dry and whitish lips of the god himself . <URL>
Brown/black mustard seed is hotter and more intense than yellow . So , powdered mustard seed that is predominantly brown/black is going to pack quite a wallop compared to powdered yellow mustard seed . In the US , recipes calling for powdered mustard are going to expect you to use yellow . See <URL> for an interesting article on the subject .
Okay , I 'm going to partially answer the initial question / title , as the pairing really is n't what knife for what food , but what knife for what type of cutting . And I say partially answer , as there are a lot of types of knives ... I 'm only going to list the more common knives , as the <URL> . This is only the tip of the iceburg . I 'm making this answer community wiki , if people want to add knives , or details of anything I listed . ( although , if you want to organize it by use ( eg , chopping/slicing/paring / etc , it might be better to move that to a separate answer , or this is going to get way too long ) Chef 's knife -- has a large-ish blade ( generally 8 " or longer , ~ 2 " high near the bolster ) , with a convex curve that 's more dramatic near the tip . Its characteristic use is to keep the tip on the cutting board , and rock the handle down ( preferably using the weight of the blade ) to slice through things . Paring knife -- a smaller knife ( ~ 3-4 " long ) , used for paring . ( cutting in the hand ; peeling , stuff that does n't require a cutting board ) . The blade may be concave ( bird 's beak ) , straight ( sheep 's foot ) or convex ( spear point ) . Slicer -- a long ( ~ 10 " or longer ) , straight , thin knife , used for slicing large items ( eg , meats ) Bread knife -- a long ( ~ 8 " + ) serrated knife , used for slicing bread . Boning / Fillet knife -- a thin , flexible blade , used for cutting between joints and stripping meat from carcasses . Meat cleaver -- a thick , wide ( often 4 " + tall ) knife , used for hacking through bones or frozen items . Vegetable cleaver / Chinese cleaver : a sharp , thin , smaller cleaver , used for delicate work that should never be used for cutting through bones . Santoku -- cleaver-like in a design , but has a slight convex blade and closer in scale to a small chef 's knife ( 5 to 7 " long , about 1.5 " tall ) . Good for general use . Utility knife / tomato knife -- mid-sized ( ~ 5-6 " long ) , serated knife . Good for when you need a small serated knife , such as um ... tomatoes . And works pretty well for cutting medium firm cheeses . Cheese knives -- um ... <URL> Steak knives -- mid-sized knives to be used at the dinner table , that are either very , very sharp , or serated . Table / dinner knife -- the basic sort of knife as part of a table setting Butter knife -- a short , dull knife , possibly offset , used for spreading butter or things of a similar consistency . And not knives , but related : Kitchen shears -- look like your general run-of-the-mill scissors , although the good ones come apart so they can be cleaned easily . Poultry shears -- heavier duty , often spring loaded ... look more like pruning sheers ( that you 'd just for trimming down a rose bush ) . They have a notch in one of the blades near the pivot point so that you can cut through a bone without it slipping . Ideal for cutting the backbone out of a chicken . Bench knife / scraper -- a wide , dull piece of metal with a handle along one edge . It 's used for dividing dough , scraping down your work surface ( bench ) , but can also be used to scoop up stuff to transfer to another location ( eg , dump in a pot ) Pizza cutter -- a circular blade attached to some sort of a handle ( which might be more like a shroud ) . Can be used for lots more than just pizza , though . Great for cutting thin , but large objects . ( eg , cutting breadsticks , trimming filo , puff pastry or other rolled out dough , etc. ) Vegetable peeler -- a handle with a swiveling sort of blade on it , but where the cutting edge is along a slit in the middle . You have standard peelers , and ' Y ' peelers . Normally smooth blades , but may be serrated . Good for peeling the skin off items , cutting vegetables into ribbons , or shaving chocolate . Mandoline -- a blade fixed on a planar surface . Used to make thin slices of a consistent thickness by moving the food against the blade .
Yes there are benefits ! This is one of my most used pieces of kitchen equipments . Here is a list of benefits for a quality rice cooker : Never burns rice No guess measurements for all kinds of rice Scheduled cooking Keep warm settings Uniform cooking When I cook rice on my stove , even at the lowest of heats , I get a thin layer of rice that has overcooked stuck to the bottom of the pot . For the record I have the <URL> . Best thing ever .
The usual purpose of pressure in pressure cookers is that they can heat water to > 100 ° C without it starting to boil , thereby reducing cooking time .
I believe it is kind of like the difference between broiling and baking . " Open top grill " only cooks from underneath ( kind of like broiling but not from above ) . Baked or " covered " grill will distribute the heat more evenly . For more information see : <URL> That 's where I double checked my assumption and got the metaphor of broiling and baking .
I 've done risotto with other short grain rices ( which includes sushi rice ) , with good results . I 've even used medium grain rice in a pinch , and you 'll have to stir more , but it 'll come out . I 'd assume the same would be true in reverse -- that most short grain rices ( incl . arborio ) would make a decent sushi ... unless it 's short grained brown rice , that 'd likely less you up . Basically , there 's three main varieties of rice : short , medium and long ( not including ' wild rice ' or how it 's treated ( white vs. brown vs. parboiled ) . So long as you stay within one group , you 're usually fine , so long as you do n't change the treatment or technique used to cook it .
Can I convince you that electric is better ? No , I ca n't , because I do n't think it is . The issue I have is related to how long it takes to warm up ( and cool down ) . Electric cook tops just do n't respond quickly . Little too hot ? Too bad , nothing you can do about it ( in time to save a dish that 's starting to burn anyway ) . Not hot enough ? Check back in 2 or 3 minutes . I find this particularly irritating when a recipe requires varying heats while cooking . Sorry I do n't have better news for you .
In the type of recipe you reference , all of which are quick breads , the result is supposed to be tender , not chewy . Wheat flour has proteins in it , which if agitated in the presence of water , will combine to form a new protein , gluten , which is very chewy . Sometimes , this is desirable as in yeast raised bread , where the gluten forms the structure of the bread , and gives it its bite and chewiness . In fact , this is why ( most ) yeast raised breads are kneaded . Gluten development is not desirable in tender quick breads , like cornbread or banana bread . Biscuits are a type of quick bread where the lumps of butter will promote flakiness , but you still want a tender crumb . The flour and the liquids are combined as quickly as possible , with the least reasonably possible agitation , to minimize the development of gluten , and thus maximize tenderness . The idea of leaving some lumps is to help prevent over mixing , and thus toughening the product . Even if there are some small lumps of unmixed flour , the liquid from the batter will penetrate them in a few minutes during baking , and they will not be a factor in the final product .
In cooking rice or many other grains ( and even some grain based products such as pasta ) , two things actually happen : The starches absorb water ; they are hydrated . Cooking . The boiling phase does both at the same time , very efficiently , but sufficient hydration happens before the rice is fully cooked through . So steaming to finish allows the rice to be fully cooked . If you just simmer , things would simply take longer . The reason to turn the heat down is to not burn the rice at the bottom during the steaming phase .
They 're generally good for adding some crunch , too , not just the flavor . A few things that come to mind : on top of a salad - my family does a roasted corn and black bean salad ; also probably good instead of croutons in salads where they 're a better flavor/style fit garnish on a soup - tortilla soup , sopa de elote ... as part of a breading for fish or chicken ( or anything else to bake or fry ) In general , anywhere you would use breadcrumbs , tortilla chip crumbles might find a place . If you 're afraid they 're too salty , you could always put dump them in a sieve and shake some of the really small bits out , leaving the more sizable bits of chip .
I do n't remember the exact science behind the potatoes not turning to mush ... I know it was discussed on an episode of America 's Test Kitchen , and they even discussed the amount of vinegar and how it affected the window for cooking times . ( I want to say it was on an episode where they were making an Austrian potato salad ) ... and it 's not specifically vinegar , and not solely potatoes . Acids will stop quite a few items from softening when cooking . I know the list inclues onions ( pre-cook onions before adding acids if you want them to disolve into a sauce ) , potatoes , apples ... I 'm guessing there 's others . For potatoes and apples , most recipes claim it 's to slow down browning . You see it in potato salad , but not mashed potatoes . You 'll see it in apple pies , but not in applesauce ... because they 'll come out lumpy . Matt already mentioned three uses for vingear : as half of a chemical leavener tenderizing / marinades preservation / picking coagulation ( eg , when poaching eggs ) But also : stabalizing eggwhite foams ( might just be a variation of coagulation ? ) denaturing / " cooking " ( eg . in the case of ceviche ; a variation of marinating ? ) flavor ( might not be a ' science case ' ... but sour is one of the primary tastes ; especially helps to balance out fatty dishes ) cleaning / disinfection ( might not be a ' cooking ' use )
Well in Chinese cooking we use a wide variety actually . Typically speaking ... Medium or Long Grain Rice White Rice Fried Rice Sweet Rice or Glutinous Rice Sticky Rice ( You commonly see this at Dim Sum places in the sticky rice dishes wrapped in lotus leaves , among other places . ) There are others of course , but those are the common ones you 'll find since you were asking about Chinese Takeout . The shorter the grain , the more " sticky " it will be . However , that does n't mean that long grain rice should come out grainy either . I suppose different restaurants will do it differently , around here they generally use long grain rice for " white rice " . This is how my mother taught me to make rice : Wash Rice a few times till there is n't any more murkiness . Add water till it reaches your first knuckle on your pointer finger when the tip is just barely touching the rice ( should generally work for any amount of rice ) . Bring to boil , turn to simmer . Check back in 10 to 15 minutes If the water is mostly gone , and it is n't at the texture you like , you can always add a bit more water . Let it sit for a few minutes after the heat is off . In China , you 'll find all different grains . I 've seen both short and long grains , and have seen plain white , long grain rice served as well .
What you describe is grill basting - where a liquid is poured onto the grill and covered ( with a metal salad bowl or a basting cover ) to more evenly cook the food and maintain its moisture . The liquid is added towards the latter half of cooking , as adding it in the first half of cooking has no real beneficial effect . Additionally , the steam will melt cheese more evenly if grilling burger patties . Typically , this liquid is a stock ( chicken or pork stock if cooking chicken , vegetable stock if cooking vegetables and beef stock if cooking beef ) or water . On a personal note , I sometimes dissolve a pinch of salt in the water if I do n't have any stock available .
You can do a low temperature cook on your ribs the same way you would do your pork shoulders . It 's just the cooking times are shorter , that 's all . Set your oven to 250-275F , and roast those ribs until they 're done . I 've had beef ribs done in as few as 3-4 hours , but as many as 5 . Optionally , you can foil your ribs about halfway into your cook , with some liquid in the foil pack . Just be aware that they 'll cook faster if they 're foiled . And depending on your preference , you may want to take them out of the foil to finish them .
I have n't tried this before but I found <URL> that shows you how . Cut into the mango , starting where the stem was and going around the long way , just in to the pit . Reach in with a spoon and scoop around the pit , separating one half of the mango from the pit . Then scoop the pit out of the other side .
They 're something leaf-like . If you look closely , you 'll find that they are n't just markings , they can be pulled away from the stem . There does n't seem to be a lot of agreement about the best name ; you 'll see " scales " and " leaves " in plenty of informal contexts , and " bracts " in some ( but not all ) more formal contexts . On Food and Cooking says they 're bracts , and actually mentions why they might be there : The stalk does n't support ordinary leaves ; the small projections from the stems are leaf-like bracts that shield immature clusters of feathery photosynthetic branches . That cluster inside them is what makes them <URL> : In botany , a bract is a modified or specialized leaf , especially one associated with a reproductive structure such as a flower , inflorescence axis , or cone scale . <URL> . That 's a bit vague about where it actually is on the plant , but there 's an image later in the article making it clear what they 're referring to : <URL> Oddly , <URL> goes into a bit more detail : In asparagus ( Asparagus officinalis ; Asparagaceae ) , the scales found on the asparagus spears are the true leaves . If the thick , fleshy asparagus spears continue to grow , flat , green , leaflike structures called cladodes develop in the axils of the scale leaves . That does match the definition of bract . Asparagus is only tender enough to eat when pretty young , though , so perhaps when you eat it those cladodes have n't developed yet . That 's still the purpose of the scales , though . In any case , it sounds like " scale " vs " bract " may just be a difference in precision and perspective .
Use part of the shell you just cracked to scoop it up ; it will attract the broken bit . Also , if you frequently end up with bits of shell in your eggs , you should revise your cracking technique . Eggs should be cracked on a flat surface ( countertop or plate ) not a sharper surface like the edge of a bowl .
If the food had reached a temperature of 21 C for an unknown amount of time , you should definitely discard it . See : <URL> As a more general rule , there really is no way to provide a definitive answer ; it depends on your specific refrigerator , the cooling power it has , how much air was able to move through the gap , and how much mass was inside the refrigerator to provide a thermal buffer If you had a refrigerator thermometer and looked at what temperature the interior rose to , if it was below 40 F you are good . If you do n't have a thermometer , you do n't know exactly what happened inside . You must assess how much tolerance for risk you have .
end question
start question
Does canning stock raise its temperature too high ?
The purpose of using a low simmer during stock-making is to avoid agitating the liquid . You want the fat to settle on top , but a rapid boil will simply disperse the fat and other impurities all throughout the stock , resulting in - as you 've hinted at - a cloudy texture and possibly an inferior taste . The other reason to avoid boiling is simply to prevent the stock from reducing too much . If you 're simmering for 6 hours , you could lose all the water . If you leave the stock unattended during that time , and the water level drops too low , then you 're not getting anything out of it ; the water needs to be covering the bones in order to break down the collagen . All that said , once you are finished with stock , you should have skimmed it and strained it through a fine sieve and probably a few layers of cheesecloth as well . If you 've made your stock correctly , it will be clear and have ( almost ) no fat . Boiling it briefly at that point is n't really going to harm it ; there 's not enough fat left to cloud the stock and you 're not boiling it for long enough to really reduce it . So I would say go ahead and do n't worry about the temperature . As far as I know , nothing magical happens at 180 ° F , that 's just a rough temperature guideline for " low simmer " .
The absolute time a stock will take depends on the quantity of stock you are making and also on the ratio of solids to liquid with which you started ( along with the strength of your burner , the starting temperature of the water , the geometry of your pot , ... ) . Intentional variation is also possible depending on your intended use . The best advice I 've heard comes from Judy Rodgers in the Zuni Cafe Cookbook : taste the stock often as it cooks , more and more freqently as it starts to taste good . When it does n't taste better than the last time you checked , it 's done .
My guess - and this is just a ( somewhat educated ) guess - is that it 's just to promote more even cooking . Since you 're talking about a layered dish , some parts are definitely going to cook faster than others . If the entire dish starts from room temperature , as opposed to fridge temperature , then that means less time is required to cook it through . Less time and less heat required to cook means that all of the layers will be more likely to end up at similar internal temperatures - as opposed to having burned bread , liquefied cheese , or rubbery eggs ( I 'm not sure offhand which cooks the fastest ) . Even if it 's not an issue with the thermal capacities of your individual ingredients , you 're also layering these each several times over , creating a very dense product , so there would still be a significant risk of the middle layers being undercooked , or the outer layers being overcooked . You might be able to bake it straight out of the fridge ; however , you would definitely have to increase the cooking time to account for the temperature difference , and there are a lot of variables that come into play which would affect how evenly it cooks : the intensity and location of your oven 's heat source ( s ) , the density of the casserole , the kind of baking dish you use - I probably would n't chance it , at least not when preparing this for other people . You tend to see the same recommendation for anything particularly dense , such as a roast , or anything layered , such as a lasagna , and generally , you do want to follow those recommendations for the same reason . They cook rather poorly if you cook them from cold or frozen , leaving you with a charred surface and an only-mostly-cooked interior . It can still happen even if you start off at room temperature , but it 's less likely and the effect tends to be less pronounced .
I 'd do one or more of a few things : Treat it like the dough in <URL> , in which you sprinkle flour on top , then pull off a portion you need , then shape quickly into a ball , developing the outer skin , keeping the freshly floured side out . Chill down the dough , so it 's firmer and easier to work with . ( and then do # 1 while it 's still a bit cold ) Put it into muffin pans or similar for baking , so you do n't have to worry about it holding up on its own or even attempting to shape it . ( if you can shape it a little bit , you can then put it into a pan with enough of a lip to give them some support as they rise ; they might spread into each other , but you can typically break them apart after they 're baked ) In general , I find that kneading dough in a mixer ( unless specifically called for in a recipes ) always needs more flour . Basically , when you 're kneading normally , you might work in 1/2 cup or so of extra flour . And there are the issues with knowing what the proper way to <URL> if the measurements are given in volume ( cups ) and not by weight , which will easily throw off any bread recipe .
There is lots of use for high temperatures . Especially pizza is the first thing that comes to mind ; there is no home oven which can get to the proper temperatures for a Neapoletana ( which are above 500 Celsius ) , but more is always better . Of course , the salesman will tell you what you need to hear to buy his product , do n't listen to him . This still does n't mean that you should only buy the oven with the highest max temperature ; there are badly built ovens which claim to reach 300 Celsius but ca n't actually do it , in this case you are probably better off with a better quality oven with a lower nominal maximum temperature . It is probably best to compare reviews made by independent test organizations .
The main things that can go bad with flour , assuming it is properly stored are : Rancidity Insect infestation If you do n't see any insects , and it still smells good , you should feel free to use it . If it smells off or nasty -- trust me , your nose will tell you -- then you will want to discard it . The actual date on the bag is only a guideline .
Typically veggies are onions , carrots , celery , leeks , garlic , shallots , etc. . Throw in some peppercorns , also , and a <URL> . You can add most other veggies , too , and mushrooms , but avoid adding things that give a strong ( bad ) flavour after cooked for a long time ( broccoli , brussels sprouts , cauliflower , etc. ) .
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
It 's actually spelled ' roux ' , and is a mixture of oil and flour , cooked to remove the starchy taste of the flour . It 's a great thickener any time that you do n't need the sauce to be clear , and you have time to cook it down . I typically use it for cream sauce ( including cheese sauces , such as for mac &amp; cheese ) and gravies . As for benefits -- it 's habit at this point , so I 'm not really sure -- I guess it 's made from things I always have on hand . You can also get flavor from the roux , if you cook it longer , but you 'll adversely affect the thickening ability . Gumbo is normally made from a dark roux ( the Cajuns have a series of names for the color of roux , including ' brick ' , ' peanut-butter ' and ' chocolate ' )
Toughness is usually the result of either too much gluten ( which in turn comes from using a flour too high in protein ) , or not enough fat ( or possibly adding the fat at the wrong time ) . Poor volume on the other hand is usually the result of using low-protein flour , and thus not having enough gluten formation . Therefore it is logical to assume that the most likely cause of your bread troubles is the fat . Try adding some more fat .
If you 're worried about the sugar not dissolving , you can add golden syrup to the thawed sorbet . It will also make your sorbet softer . I 've only tried making sorbet a couple of times but when I used golden syrup , its consistency was softer than when I used sugar .
First off , there 's not a lot in the ingredients you list that is likely to pose a hazard anyway . ( It is possible for flour to be contaminated with bacteria , and if the bacterial count is high enough , it could pose a risk in raw dough . ) However , pasteurization to safe levels at 160F does n't take more than a few seconds in most foods , and it 's likely the interior of your loaf was above 130F ( where bacteria will gradually start dying off ) for quite some time . I 'd definitely consider it safe to eat right after baking , though it may not be particularly pleasant . However , underdone bread sometimes is prone to earlier spoilage , since it generally has a higher moisture content that might promote some mold , bacterial , and yeast growth after baking . The chances of it becoming actually hazardous without noticeably spoiling are probably rather low , but it 's possible , particularly if the moisture content is high enough . It 's much more likely that the bread would just spoil normally through the appearance of surface molds , etc. , though . If you wanted to be extra cautious , you could store leftover bread in the freezer or fridge .
How much is too much is a totally subjective thing . Yes , there is such a thing as too much , but where that point is will vary among tasters . There is no objective question here to answer . No one answer to the question will be " correct " . I really like vanilla , and I like flavors to be on the rich side , so I tend to be a bit heavy-handed with vanilla . A few ( very few ) times I have been surprised to have that heavy-handedness criticized . Why would they not like my amazing vanilla ice cream ? They experience vanilla differently than I do . What is ideal for me may be overdone , even cloying , to my neighbor . So , when it comes to various flavorings ( vanilla is just one of many ) , get to know your own " likes " and what your audience likes . After that , you can ignore what the recipe says and just do what feels right to you , knowing your audience and the potency of your ingredients as well .
I dont think that adding parnips to a beef stock would change the chemistry . I would give the beef stock a longer time to freeze as well as check the temperature in your freezer !
In general , the stickiness of rice can be reduced by removing some of the starch by pre-soaking and/or <URL> . For sushi rice , chewiness can be increased by <URL> . For what do you use oil ? I do n't believe that is a traditional ingredient in sushi rice .
Usually this question goes the other way around ( how to adjust recipes for high-altitude cooking ) ... The main effect that altitude has on cooking times and temperatures is how it affects the boiling point of water . At higher altitudes , water begins boiling at a lower temperature , so anything boiling will not reach as high of a temperature , and often needs to be cooked longer . Higher altitudes can also cause leavening to have a greater effect . You may need to add extra leavening ( yeast , baking powder ) to get the same amount of rise that you had at a higher altitude .
If your stock turns to jelly in the fridge , it means you did it right ! Simmering the bones breaks down the collagen and turns it into gelatin ; that 's the very essence of stock-making . The gelatin is exactly what you want from the stock ; at low temperatures it has a very jelly-like consistency , but at higher temperatures it melts and provides a very rich texture . The more you reduce the stock , the more gelatinous it will become , so if it turned out stiffer than you expected , it 's probably because you let a lot of water evaporate . Typically , when making stock , you use a very low simmer ; just a few bubbles per minute . Any more than that and your stock will reduce . But reducing is perfectly OK , and many cooks will reduce an entire pot of stock down to a few tablespoons ; it 's like bullion , only without all the salt and preservatives . Heavily-reduced stock is called glace de viande and is often used to give a sauce or dish a little bit of extra kick , imparting a powerful meat flavour . But you probably did n't reduce it that much . If you 're finding it to be too concentrated or gelatinous , even at higher temperatures , you can feel free to dilute it . For soups or sauces you can probably dilute it 1 for 1 , but taste as you go along just to make sure you 're not watering it down too much . When only the top layer of a stock solidifies in the refrigerator , it is probably fat , which you should skim off and discard ( or reserve ) . The rest is your actual stock , and in your case it sounds delicious . Also , since you mention vacuum-sealing - I prefer to use covered ice cube trays for freezing stock . That lets you portion it out much more easily than a big solid blob .
Substituting oil for butter in a quick bread would be fine , but you only used 1/2 the amount of oil , and further added two pureed apples . These are about <URL> , substantially increasing the amount of liquid in the recipe . The thing is , the method for this pumpkin bread relied on the creaming method , which requires a solid fat ; changing to a liquid fat and apples ) would dramatically change the outcome . It would make the bread denser ( no leavening from creaming ) and more wet from the increased liquid . Then , by cutting the sugar almost in half , you reduced the ability of the bread to hold water , as sugar is hydrophylic . So it would seem more wet .
In the general case , it is not possible . As you cook meat past about 165 F , all of the proteins will have denatured and contracted , squeezing out moisture . This is what makes well done meat tough and stringy or rubbery . This process can not really be reversed , although you can try to mask it with a sauce . In the specific case of certain cuts -- the ones famous for braises or barbecue , the " low and slow " cooking techniques -- there is some hope , but it is a thin one depending on what you have been doing . These cuts , the most active working parts of the animal such as the shoulders ( chuck for beef or butt for pork ) have a great deal of intramuscular fat , as well as connective tissue made of a protein called collagen . Over time , when cooked slowly at temperatures of about 180 F , the collagen in the meat will turn into gelatin , which has a silky , smooth mouth feel , and the fat will lubricate the meat . They still have their proteins irreversibly dentures and tightened , but the gelatin and fat provide a new kind of moisture and unctuousness that is highly prized . The cooking techniques for this ( braising , barbecuing , slow roasting ) are rarely employed for chops or steaks that you would do in the frying pan . They also simply do n't have the collagen or the fat to make it possible . That is why they are better off with the higher temperature , faster cooking methods , but should not be overcooked , as you have discovered to your dismay . Your best option is not to try to recover from this situation , which is very difficult to do , but rather to learn to prevent it : Get a good instant read thermometer to check the internal temperature of your steaks or chops Learn what the safe temperature is for that type of meat . For example , poultry and pork should both be cooked to at least 155 F ( and for poultry , many people have learned to like even more done meat ) The FDA recommends 165 F for ground meat ( which is quite well done ) Measure the temperature of your meat and learn to recognize when it is done Assess what level of risk you are willing to accept Over time , you will learn to recognize when cuts are done to your liking by how they feel when you poke them with your finger ( which is a pretty good indication of how done they are , based on how resilient they are ) , but the thermometer will be your guide until you build that experience . Still , this will require that you adjust your expectations of what completely cooked meat looks like . Pork may still be a touch rosy , for example .
Umami comes from a very specific source : <URL> . MSG is a glutamate , so it is one of the best ways to add a bit of umami . Meat , Kombu seaweed ( used to make Dashi , and hence Dashi ) , mushrooms , onions , cheeses , soy and other beans , most high-protein foods . <URL> is a quick list . Most are prepared foods , but it should give you an idea .
end question
start question
What is a good vegetarian source of umami flavour ?
<URL> has a list of Umami-rich foods along with natural concentrations of glutamate . I 've copied some of their list below ( included some meats for comparison ) in case the link disappears ( concentration number is mg glutamate/100g food ) . There 's also some information at the above link about how to prepare the foods to maximize the umami taste . Food/Concentration : Beef/107 Tuna/188 Nori/1378 ( not a typo ) Tomatoes/246 ( the riper the better ) Fresh Shiitake Mushrooms/71 Dried Shiitake Mushrooms/150 Enoki Mushrooms/22 Soy Beans/66 Potatoes/102 Sweet Potatoes/60 Chinese Cabbage/100 Carrots/33
I 've come across two great , and very different , types of steak . The first is typical in Argentina and is not aged at all , but from a young calf ( 6-10 months old ) , free ranging and grass fed ( hence not like classic veal ) . This is really juicy , tender , and with a very " bright " taste . Good high-end Argentine restaurants usually serve meat like this , and in the UK you can order it from pampasplains.com , which I think is great . The second is from an older cow and dry aged to tenderize , but the aging also gives it a deeper , more bone marrow-like flavour . The best I 've had of this type was a cow from Limousin in France , served in Paris at a small restaurant called Le Sèvero ( 8 rue des Plantes , 14th Arrondissment , reviewed in the NY Times a while ago ) . It was amazing ! In London , 32 Great Queen St 's " Hereford beef " is a similar style and also excellent . They get it from a Hereford farmer called Tom Jones ( seriously ) , who serves several restaurants . Good steak should never be marinated in anything - all it needs before cooking is salt , maybe pepper if you like ( though I sometimes eat it with Coleman 's English mustard ) . I 'm fairly sure that grass-only feed is important to good meat , i.e. no cereal-based fattening-up , though it 's hard to separately test this one variable . Breed also clearly matters ( all Argentine beef seems to be Aberdeen Angus or Hereford ) . I love a nicely marbled , fatty steak like the ribeye , but my ( Argentine ) wife prefers leaner cuts like sirloin and filet - clearly a matter of taste .
<URL> is a fantastic resource , and has probably <URL> out there at the moment . There 's also a lot of good stuff at the French Cullinary Institute 's <URL> . They 've got <URL> that 's quite enlightening . I actually disagree on the McGee recommendations . While it 's an excellent book , full of great info , I do n't think it 's a good starting point for molecular gastronomy ( in the sense of the cooking movement rather than the more literal sense )
One technique , especially in Mexican foods , for recipes that use dried chilies , is to toast the pods before using them . Toast them over medium heat until the pod blisters , but do n't blacken too much . They are very thin , so going from done to ruined takes only a few seconds of in attention . Be careful !
Freezing is bad for things which have a special structure and lots of water . Everything else should be OK with freezing . The prime example of a thing which behaves badly when frozen is a fruit . It consists mostly of water , but is firm instead of liquid because the water is contained within a cellulose structure created by the cell walls of the fruit . When you freeze it , the water turns to sharp ice crystals , which also expand in volume ( water is one of the few liquids which does that upon freezing ) , and they hurt the cell walls . When you defrost the fruit , it turns terribly soft , and all the juice runs out . It is practically like maceration without the sugar . You can use the fruit for cooking , e.g. for a jelly , but it is not the same thing as a fresh fruit . Another example which is very structure dependent is whipped egg white . It is a fragile foam , and the formation of ice crystals is also very damaging for it . Whipped cream is similar - you can freeze it ( and get ice cream ) , but it melts to a liquid , not a foam . On the other hand , foods which have a specific structure but not much water are OK with freezing . Butter is not pure fat , it is an emulsion of 17 % water in 83 % fat . Emulsions tend to have very fragile structures ( do n't freeze mayonnaise ) , but butter is OK , because there is n't much water so the formation of crystals does n't disrupt the structure . Another exception which is OK to freeze is dough . A dough being practically a mesh of gluten , it does n't get really hurt by the crystals . There are a few ingredients which develop an off taste when frozen . For example , do n't freeze anything carbonated , it tastes terrible afterwards . You should also consider the problem of freezer burn . It happens when the moisture of the frozen product sublimates in the dry freezer air . To prevent it , you have to seal the food airtight . You are therefore limited by the kind of food you can seal . If you have a food which would make a mess in a home vacuum sealer , like a wet stew , you could try freezing it for a night , so it is hard but does not have freezer burn yet , and then sealing the frozen chunk and returning it to the freezer . Some ingredients will prevent the food from freezing into a solid block . Notable examples are salt , alcohol and propylene glycol ( which is used as a solvent in food coloring and baking aromas ) . This should n't be a food safety problem , because first , bacteria growth is inhibited by low temperatures , and second , if you have these things in concentration high enough to completely prevent freezing at -18 ° C , then they will kill the bacteria by themselves . But it can cause some logistic problems if the food stays too soft . As you see , these general guidelines have exceptions , or at least require some knowledge of what food is built like ( but frankly , I would have predicted that yeast dough freezes badly if I did n't know from experience that it works well ) . So you should definitely try to remember it on a per-case basis for the most common things you intend to freeze . A very convenient guideline is to think if you can buy a premade equivalent frozen at the supermarket . If they sell it , it will probably turn out OK when frozen at home ( sometimes with differences , like frozen fruit ) . If they do n't have the food ( or its major ingredients ) , there is probably a reason for that .
In the cowboy days , the people traveling through the western desert would carry canvas sacks which they would fill with water . The water would seep through the canvas very slowly , and wet the surface of the bag . Evaporative cooling would then keep the water cold ( at least cooler ) . You could try something similar if you are in a dry climate ( the rate of evaporation determines the cooling effect , which is limited by the relative humidity ) . Wrap the food or drink in wet cloth , and hang or set in a shady location with some wind . Keep the wrapping wet .
If we 're going to define " cheese dip " as " some substance made from cheese for the purpose of dipping other food in " - which seems like the only rational definition given no other context - then I 'd have to pinpoint its origin as being fondue . <URL> , the earliest known recipe for fondue comes from the Swiss cookbook , <URL> , first published in 1699 . That predates the Arkansas claim of 1935 by at least a few centuries , if we assume that Wikipedia does indeed list the earliest source . There 's also <URL> which was supposedly brought to Mexico by the Mennonites , which would place its origin in Mexico sometime in the 1920s - assuming that the Mennonites themselves did not simply adapt the recipe from something known even earlier . I 'd have to say that the Arkansas tourism board seems to be trying to pull a fast one on us , laying claim to this " invention " . Maybe they 're defining cheese dip as the specific kind of cheese dip they came up with , which would of course be a tautology .
I 've never made Citrus Sugar , but I certainly have made vanilla sugar . Crystaline sugar soaks up the moisture , so if bacteria or mold were to invade the pot , it would be dehydrated quickly and would n't survive , let alone thrive . They need a good bit of moisture to reproduce . I 've never had a problem with my vanilla sugar and it does n't take long for the vanilla beans to turn into little vanilla toothpicks .
The rind of Brie is <URL> it 's a completely harmless fungus which gives brie its taste . You can eat it , or not , up to you : you are supposed to . If it smells very strongly of ammonia the cheese is just a bit too ripe but it wo n't do you any harm .
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
When you 're grilling food at high temperatures on a barbeque most of the smoke comes from fat that strikes the hot surface of the coals/vapourizer . It 's only when you 're slowly barbequing food , cooking it at cool temperatures , that the difference becomes important . With a gas or electric barbeque you 'll need to add a source of smoke ( eg . wood in a smoker box ) if you want to add any smokey flavour . Even with charcoal it 's normal to add wood to the coals in order to increase the amount of smoke . When cooking on an indoor griddle or frying pan , unless something goes seriously wrong , there 's usually no smoke so the flavour will different than when grilling on any sort of barbeque .
It is absolutely untrue and very dangerous to think that " if it looks OK , and smells OK , it must be OK . " If that were the case , food poisoning would be very rare . Food that we can sense is spoiled rarely causes illness . For one thing what you do n't eat ca n't hurt you , and people generally wo n't eat food that looks or smells spoiled . But less obviously , much of what causes spoilage that we can taste , see or smell is actually fairly harmless to humans . Spoilage and rancidity are terms that are often used interchangeably , but rancidity is actually a specific kind of spoilage , caused by the relatively harmless oxidation of fats which is unrelated to any kind of bacteria or other microorganism . It 's just a function of time , temperature , oxygen , and light . Fancy dried cured meats get a fair amount of their special flavor from controlled rancidity . Molds and yeasts cause food to spoil , but are also used in controlled ways to create flavor . Dairy cultures are bacteria , and bacteria plays a major role in fermentation . What causes illness and death are often things that we ca n't taste , see , or smell . Salmonella , E. coli and C. botulinum are usually undetectable by our senses . Mishandled food that has been heated to temperatures far hotter than is necessary to kill any and all dangerous organisms can still kill if those organisms have produced chemical toxins or deadly spores . We usually ca n't sense those either . That 's why the " rules " exist . You need to take care to keep food out of the dreaded " danger zone " . Foods that are considered unsafe unless cooked to a specific temperature ARE unsafe unless cooked to that temperature ( although government recommendations in that matter are often overly conservative , there is room there for assessing your own risk ) . Preserved foods must have appropriate acid , salinity , sugar or other tested preservatives . Stored foods must be kept at the proper temperature . Dried foods must be dried correctly . Canning procedures rules seem overly strict . They are not . Learn the rules , disobey them at your peril . There is a lot of good information here under the <URL> tag . We are not making this stuff up . The <URL> " estimates that each year roughly 1 in 6 Americans ( or 48 million people ) get sick , 128,000 are hospitalized , and 3,000 die of foodborne diseases . " That 's just in the US where food handlers ( home and professional ) are mostly educated in basic food hygiene and just about everyone has access to a refrigerator . The worldwide figures are staggering .
A kitchen rag is typically a white , rectangular towel that has various duties in a professional kitchen . Some of the uses include : wiping-down counter tops , sopping-up spills , securing cutting boards ( use DAMP rags ) , and grabbing hot pans ( use DRY rags ) . Generally , it is a good idea to wash your hands with soap and a sink . Often kitchen rags are used to clean debris from the hands between preparing food items . Usually the rags are dropped-off , picked-up , and washed by an outsourced service provider ( e.g. Cintas ) . The kitchen rags from these providers often have a thin , colored line that runs lengthwise down the towel . If you would like to find some for your home , try searching ' bar mops ' . They are essentially the same as kitchen rags , and are usually very cheap .
<URL> is an extremely useful guide to every technique you can imagine . Each step of each technique is fully illustrated with photographs .
The original recipe calls for a total of 2 lbs of ground meat , 1/2 beef and 1/2 veal . I would suggest a close approximation to the effect can be had by using either ( in decreasing order of preference ) : 50 % ground pork , 50 % ground beef -- Some of the mild flavor of veal , with tenderness and flavor from the pork 100 % ground beef -- It wo n't be as tender or as subtle , but still will be good I would avoid trying to use as part of your substitution mixture : Ground lamb , goat , ox , and so on -- flavor is too strong Ground chicken or turkey -- these are extremely low in fat , likely to toughen your overall mixture , and likely to make it taste more poultryesque Personally , I would also switch from whole eggs to just the yolks , which will bring the binding and tenderizing qualities of the yolk , without the slightly rubber-like texture of albumin based white , to more closely approximate the qualities the veal would have brought to the dish .
I 've only had red amaranth , so apologies if that is distinct from the type you have access to . As I recall , spinach is a bit sweeter and the leaves are a bit softer so they break down more readily . Also I believe the stem on spinach is less fibrous . That said , they are both leafy greens and I 've yet to find a recipe so touchy that one leafy green ca n't be substituted for another .
The standard espresso drink is the double espresso ( a double espresso shot ) . Although you can get single or triple espressos , if you are comparing quality , the double espresso is the standard . Regardless of which type of shot you order , if you are comparing quality across different cafes , you should always order the same thing ( ie do n't order a single at one cafe and a double at another ) . Once again for standardization , I would recommend ordering a double at each one . My explanation of good espresso will be about straight espresso ( no milk , no sugar ) in an espresso mug/cup . Here are some characteristics of a quality double shot : Temperature : The espresso should be quite hot when served . If it is only lukewarm or warm right after it is made , then the barista did not heat the cup that it was served in . It should be to the temperature where it is too hot to drink ( for most people ) . It should only take a minute or so to cool off . Perhaps two minutes . Crema : There should be a nice layer of crema on top of the espresso ( a few millimeters thick , completely covering the espresso ) . This comes from the release of carbon dioxide when the espresso is extracted under pressure . The color should be golden-brown to dark brown for a double shot . The color will not always be uniform , it will sometimes be slightly lighter where the shot actually poured in the spot on the crema . The crema should remain for at least three - five minutes if not longer . Taste : The espresso should be bitter , but not too bitter ( high levels of bitterness are more characteristic of espresso long shots ) . It should be rich , but not too rich ( again , high levels of richness are more characteristic of espresso ristretto shots ) . It should NOT be sour . If it is sour , it has been sitting for too long before being served or was over-extracted . It should not taste watery , this is usually a characteristic of under-extraction . Smell : Hard to describe for espresso and the aroma will vary a lot . One thing to avoid is a ' sour ' smell , which usually indicates a sour taste , as described above , or that the coffee being used is inherently too acidic . Consistency : Espresso is going to be thicker and more viscous than regular drip coffee , but it wo n't be syrupy . When you are done your espresso , the drop or two that remain at the bottom of the cup , when dried should leave a distinct brown residue on the bottom of the cup . Notes , and other things to keep in mind : You will have to remember that different cafes will use different varieties of beans for making espresso , so this is going to affect the flavor . Different cafes use different amounts of ground espresso and different amounts of water when preparing their espresso . The industry standard is 2 oz ( about 60 milliliters ) for a double shot , but in my cafe we do our double shots to 3 oz . Most importantly , learning to recognize good espresso is an experienced based endeavor , just like with wine , beer , or food . On a personal note , I love to do this with cafes as well ! I always judge the quality of a cafes espresso and ability by ordering my favorite drink : a double espresso long . In fact , I am going to a new cafe to do it today !! A Lovely Looking Cup of Espresso :
It comes from two different measurements , typical wine bottle size , and government alcohol regulations Typical wine bottles are 750 ml , and this divides exactly into five or six servings of 150 or 125 ml ( thanks peter ) . So many traditional wine glass serves are " exactly " 150 or 125 ml ( ~ 5 or 4 oz ) depending in which country you live in For typical government regulation , a standard drink is ; a 100 ml glass of table wine , or a 330 ml can of beer , or a 30 ml glass of straight spirits . Each of these contains on average 10 g of alcohol . So many liquor licensing guidelines recommend the serving of wine by 100 ml ( 3.5 oz ) standard drink sizes Governments will use this to produce such amazing guidelines such as : In most western countries the standard drink range is from 8 to 12 g of alcohol , except in the USA where it is super-sized to 14 g Update ; references from <URL> <URL> <URL>
Liqueur is essentially a flavoured distilled spirit , with the important distinction of added sugar . Vermouth is not distilled , which is why it 's referred to as a fortified wine . Flavoured vodkas usually have no added sugar , and so are not classed as liqueurs . Campari uses both distilled alcohol and sugar , and so is a liqueur . Have a flow chart : And a Venn diagram , including flavour :
They 're good pretty much forever . There is not enough available water for things to grow in there . Mind you , the more aromatic and subtle parts of the flavor will dissipate over time . The sugar absorbs water , giving the combination a very low water activity , meaning there 's little water available for microorganisms to use in growth . As long as your flavoring pieces are small and well mixed with sugar they will not spoil .
end question
start question
What to do about yeast that does n't work ?
You can proof your yeast to see if its still alive : Heat approx . 1/2 cup ( 100ml ) of water to about 115 ° F ( 45 ° C ) . Add a tablespoon ( 10g ) or so of sugar , stir . Water should still be above 105 ° F ( 40 ° C ) . Add a teaspoon of yeast , stir . Within 5 minutes or so , the mixture should be thoroughly foamy . If its not thoroughly foamy , yeast is bad ( dead ) , dispose of it . ( Note : Metric conversions above are rounded , just like the imperial units . Do n't use these conversions for baking , but proofing yeast does n't need anything exact . )
Yes , it is to do with freshness - the fresher and younger the aubergine , the less bitter it will be . If you have an old aubergine , you could try peeling it , as the bitter compounds are concentrated just under the skin .
Liquid vanilla extract has alcohol in it , so if you add this extract to hot cocoa , puddings , fudge , or anything you make with heat , the alcohol burns off and so does most of the flavor . If you wait for it to cool off the flavor stays strong . Same thing goes for artificial vanilla also because of the alcohol levels ( but the flavor is just not there to begin with with artificial flavor ) . If you use vanilla beans , open up the pod and scrape the inside of it and put it in the beginning with the hot mix . That is another story . It is very delicious , but you see teeny tiny little beans swimming in your lighter mixes like vanilla bean ice cream .
If you 're not talking about very much water getting into the bowl , then these techniques should help . Remove the bowl of chocolate from the heat source . For every ounce of chocolate , add one tablespoon of one of these : warm water , melted butter , vegetable oil , hot milk/cream . Stir or whisk until smooth . Add a bit more liquid if needed . Use the repaired chocolate for sauce , frosting , or a batter ( like for your brownies ! ) . It wo n't work well for coating candy . You may also want to check out <URL> on how to melt chocolate without getting it wet .
The wine will bring several things to the breadmaking party : Acidity Alcohol Water Flavoring Color ( especially if it is red wine ) The biggest of these is the alcohol which is a yeast byproduct -- they do n't like it in their environment , and it inhibits their growth . The acidity can do the same . Proofing will be retarded , and you may need a larger starting quantity of yeast than for a wineless loaf . You would also have to adjust the amount of liquid in the formula to account for that from the wine . Your bread would probably take on a strange mauve color , after being baked , and may have some hint of winey flavor . I think the lack of well known wine-loaves in the world 's baking traditions indicates this does not generally work out very well , although there are some recipes for yeast raise breads containing wine such as <URL> from The Fresh Loaf .
My version of this ( <URL> ) actually came with a set of instructions . It 's not meant to be used for cooking , only for serving . Place the pan in a hot oven for about 30 mins to heat it up ( while you 're cooking ) , then put your fajitas on it to bring to the table . The cast iron will retain heat for a long time and keep anything you serve on it sizzling hot . A cast iron pan would be a great way to cook fajitas , but the shallow sides and strange shape of the " sizzler " pan make it impractical to really cook on . The same instruction book also recommends using another cast iron pan ( two , actually ) to cook the fajitas . If you want to use it for something other than fajitas , it would work just fine as a small griddle . You could probably cook pancakes , a strip steak , or chicken breast on it , but nothing that requires any stirring .
Honey might go bad in two ways - one involves stuff growing on the surface of the honey , the other involves the honey itself fermenting . In both cases , the spoilage is connected to exceedingly poor storage - as other answers mentioned , honey is difficult to spoil ... but difficult is not the same thing as impossible , right :) Honey that ferments is usually linked to high water content - some honeys have a higher water content naturally , some might have water added at some point ( for example , to deter crystallization ) , some might have water leaked into a container and puddled on top or along the edges , and honey will absorb moisture from the air if left unsealed , and eventually reach a saturation where the water is no longer a limiting factor to yeasts . In any case , part of honey 's preservative qualities is the lack of available water and too high concentration of sugars inhibits most spoiling organisms - so when that extra water becomes available , honey turns from " never goes bad " to " potent food source for yeasts " , especially since as the yeast eat the sugars , they also lower the concentrations from something inhospitable to yeasts , to something that can support more yeast growth - so the fermentation will continue progressing . A small puddle of water can gradually lead to a whole container fermenting because the local dilution is much greater than the total water percentage , and once given a foothold the yeasts will keep eating the concentrations further down into yeast-inhabitable ranges . Some fermentation is more problematic than others - for example , mead probably originates from a spontaneous fermentation of honey that was enjoyable , on the other hand , different yeasts may give off bad odors and off flavors . If your honey <URL> to the point of spoilage , it will smell bad , look cloudy , and taste terrible . It will also foam ( carbon dioxide production ) , may separate , may bulge if the container permits , all that good stuff that warns if any foodstuff in fermenting . There is some stuff on that page about natural beneficial fermentation and typical crystallization patterns , but that is n't relevant to the question of spoilage The other way honey might go bad , is having some debris accumulate on the surface of honey ( cross contamination ) , that gives some mold or other bacteria enough food to get a foothold . Again , honey itself is a poor source of food if properly stored - not enough water , not enough available food to get a foothold - but add debris , crumbs , or whatever that can spoil more easily right on the surface , and that can give mold or whatever enough of a toehold to build a floating colony , as you envisioned . If there 's enough debris or moisture on the surface , the mold might start nibbling at the surface of the honey - which will start lowering the sugar content to something mold can find hospitable , much the same way fermentation can progress . You might be able to simply remove the colony or even the top layer to salvage the honey , if you are willing to risk it , since honey is known to be rather inhospitable to dangerous organisms . And if the honey is properly stored afterwards , any critters left should n't be able to re-colonize since they needed the crumbs to get a toehold in the first place - but only you can decide what you will risk .
The flavor you want is from the high heat of the clay oven ( around 900F , much like a wood-fired pizza oven ) . Probably nothing you can do to truly replicate it at home , but here are some things to try : Use a pizza stone in the oven , and turn the oven to MAX , as hot as it will go ( above 500F ) . Let it preheat for 45 min at least to get the stone to full heat . Put the dough right on the stone ( either by hand - risky but traditional , or with a pizza peel or upside down sheet pan covered in corn meal ) . The naan will cook much quicker , maybe 3-5 minutes at most . If you can get the oven hot enough , you 'll get a little of the " char " that is part of the flavor . After mixing the ingredients , let the dough rest overnight in the fridge . The next day , pull it out , let it warm to room temp and resume the proofing process . That will let more sugars be created from enzymes converting starch to sugar , and will slightly improve browning ( part of the flavor you are looking for ) . Of course , if you want to get fun , you could look into one of the many tutorials on building a wood-fired oven in your yard . Lots of great baking to be had there , including a more traditional naan bread . For more tips , read up on all the things people do to their home ovens to bake better pizza - they will all apply to clay oven baking as well . Things like hearth inserts , faking out the " cleaning cycle " and other tips are common . Based on comments and some more thinking , my first recommendation would be a grill - charcoal if you have it , gas if you do n't . The procedure would be similar to making grilled pizza ( well described in Peter Reinhart 's " American Pie " ) . Using a charcoal grill with hardwood charcoal , a dough that is stiff enough to not immediately slide through the grate on your grill ( may mean slightly less water in your dough ) , and making sure to brush the surface of the dough with oil or ghee before flopping down on the grill , you could probably get even closer to the clay oven . It still is n't the same thing , but you might get more of the smoky charred flavors you seek .
I would say there are 2 problems here : the lack of water , and the constant stirring . Try adding 1/4 cup of water to the sugar - this should stop it catching and burning . You should avoid stirring caramelising sugar because you run the risk of flicking bits of it onto the side of the pan . These isolated bits cook faster and thus burn , then drop into the rest of the sugar . Result : bitter caramel . Stirring also promotes crystallisation , which is not what you want for a smooth sauce . If you have to stir it , do it slowly , carefully , and infrequently - only as much as necessary to distribute the water evenly through the sugar . I would also use a sugar or probe thermometer to ensure you 're not over-cooking the sugar - get it to 350ºF , then take it off heat . This will take 6-8 minutes , and it will be a dark amber colour . Let it stand for 1 minute before whisking in your cream ( I normally gently heat the cream beforehand by the way , and add a teaspoon of sea salt to it , because salted caramel is effing gorgeous ) .
I 've used yeast that was even older than yours and although the taste of the resulting bread was fine , and it foamed up properly when tested , I found I had to use about 50 % more of it to get the same density of the bread . In the end , I threw it out because it was too much trouble to experiment with it every time .
<URL> states that one cake is the equivalent to one packet of dried yeast ( 0.25 oz or 2.25 tsp ) : One ( 1/4-ounce ) yeast packet of dry yeast OR 1 cake fresh , compressed yeast EQUALS 2 - 1/4 teaspoons dry yeast ( active dry or instant active dry )
This product is new to me , but it looks interesting . The flavour of <URL> is described in Wikipedia : Nutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty , cheesy , or creamy , which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes . It is often used by vegans in place of parmesan cheese . Nutritional yeast is a so called <URL> . A complete protein ( or whole protein ) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals . This also explains why it is popular among vegans , that needs to replace the amino acids in meat with alternative food sources .
Unless you coat the popcorn ( with caramel , etc ) , I know of no way , other than SAJ 's vacuuming idea , which is quite a good one , imo .
First , use oil . Many people use no oil at all on nonstick , but it wo n't work that way on a cast iron pan . Second , preheat it properly . With iron , it takes a long time . If you have a resistive electrical stove , it will be quite longer than you expected . Third , you might want to steer away from non-bound starches in the beginning , until the seasoning has set through use .
<URL> is a fantastic resource , and has probably <URL> out there at the moment . There 's also a lot of good stuff at the French Cullinary Institute 's <URL> . They 've got <URL> that 's quite enlightening . I actually disagree on the McGee recommendations . While it 's an excellent book , full of great info , I do n't think it 's a good starting point for molecular gastronomy ( in the sense of the cooking movement rather than the more literal sense )
Cleanliness , as pTerry reminds us , is only next to godliness in a very sternly abridged dictionary . However , working clean has three main things going for it : order ! when you 're trying to bang out a couple hundred dishes as fast as possible , being orderly and methodical in your work is not just important , it is absolutely vital . safety ! see above . if your area is a mess , you 're more likely to injure yourself or others . Bear in mind that we play with sharper knives and hotter burners than you do at home health ! a clean work area is one that is free of cross-contamination . Per calumbrodie 's answer below , I 'd like to expand a bit on the need for order . I 'll do this by telling you about my day today . We 've just rotated the kitchen ; chef does this from time to time to make sure everyone is cross-trained on all stations . So right now for the restaurant I 'm responsible for sandwiches ( one hot menu sandwich , one daily special ) , prepping one of our appetizers , one hot appetizer , soup daily , and one of our main courses ( crepe stuffed with pan-roasted wild mushrooms , caramelized shallots , and barre boulard cheese which is just heavenly ) . In addition to that , we also have a takeout counter and a satellite location elsewhere in the building ; for those I am responsible for sixteen sandwiches daily ( different from the restaurant sandwiches ! ) as well as stuffed chicken which goes with a salad . We start work at 9:30 AM , everything for the takeout must be ready by 11:15 , and restaurant service runs from 11:30 until 3PM . You should be able to see the time constraints this imposes . When I walked in this morning , here is what I had to do just to get the counter stuff out , and be ready for service : Bake bread ( parbaked , frozen , from a local artisanal baker ; we simply do not have the room to bake our own , although chef is open to the idea of tasking me with that ) Bread , par-fry , stuff , and bake chicken breasts . Deep-fry onions until crispy ( garnish for the menu sandwich ) Make crepes ( must be done fresh daily ) Make sandwiches for the counters ( today I was lucky ; I had some of the mise ready from some free time on Saturday ) Oops , mayonnaise did n't come in Friday 's delivery , better make some ... Make garnish for the soup I made Saturday Double check all my mise en place in case I forgot something . Chef has slimmed down the menu somewhat , but I still have roughly fifteen to twenty different components which must all be ready , all the time . With backups in case we get slammed . I have 1h 45m to do all of these things . And while I work best in a situation that looks like chaos to the outside observer , everything is carefully organized and planned . For example , crepes are something that -- if you 've made enough of them -- you can interweave with another task : make the batter first . Ladle batter into pan , spin around , put back on the heat . Good , now I have a minute or two to work on another task ; make a sandwich . Flip crepe , cut and wrap sandwich . Remove crepe from pan , repeat . And this was a slow day . On a busy day , this list could easily be twice as long , including some things that will simply take time and require undivided attention . So that took right up until service . During service I 'm still prepping : everything I need for tomorrow that can possibly be done today , I do . So ... roasting turkey for tomorrow 's sandwich , making a cranberry aioli , making crab croquettes for the entremetier station ( so : mashed potatoes , chilled -- oh dear that 's going to take two hours to come down in temp , better get started now -- then folded around a crab mixture ) , some sort of stuffing for tomorrow 's chicken ... and on top of that I 've got to be planning for Wednesday , for which I will need a new soup ( and garnish ) , got ta roast another lamb leg -- and that needs to chill too so I can slice it carefully , make sure I 've got enough bread in stock , and oh wait -- we have a catering function Thursday for which I need to make about a dozen things , best figure out when I 'm going to do that ... And all of this is being done while chits are coming out of the printer , so I need to be organized in such a way that I can not only stop whatever project I 'm working on , but that having those ingredients/tools on my station wo n't impede my ability to serve food in a timely manner . ... you get the point . ( There 's a much better treatment of this , from an exec 's POV , in Bourdain 's Kitchen Confidential ) . Without some order to my workspace ( which is thankfully large ) , I would quickly be dans la merde and everything would go a bit pear-shaped . I 've had those days , and it is difficult for me to convey how much it sucks to look at the clock , know you have five minutes left , and know that you have fifteen minutes of work still to go . The thing about working in a kitchen is that , apart from a very few places which run with military precision ( Alinea , Fat Duck , elBulli , Moto , the Laundry , etc ) , there is never enough time . Ever . And when there is enough time , well , there 's
I would n't trust any store brand to omit seeds entirely ; it 's just not going to be a priority for them . I 'd suggest making your own instead . It 's fairly easy and fast to seed tomatoes using a chinois , and to seed peppers using a knife . And it 'll taste better , too ! BTW , many online medical authorities seem to think that seeds are not actually an issue for diverticulitis ; maybe you should consider a second medical opinion ? <URL> <URL>
If it 's " green tea powder " it 's probably <URL> . Matcha is finely ground powder of specially grown and processed green tea . It 's special in two aspects of farming and processing : The green tea plants for matcha are shade-grown for about three weeks before harvest , and the stems and veins are removed in processing . The traditional Japanese tea ceremony centers on the preparation , serving , and drinking of matcha . In modern times , matcha has also come to be used to flavour and dye foods such as mochi and soba noodles , green tea ice cream and a variety of wagashi ( Japanese confectionery ) . <URL> The drink you had in Thailand is probably an iced matcha shake of some sort , made with condensed milk . In Japan , the drink is served by itself as part of tea ceremonies and is opaque even without milk added to it . There 's a guide to how tea ceremonies work and the process of making tea <URL> , if you 're interested .
I 'd do one or more of a few things : Treat it like the dough in <URL> , in which you sprinkle flour on top , then pull off a portion you need , then shape quickly into a ball , developing the outer skin , keeping the freshly floured side out . Chill down the dough , so it 's firmer and easier to work with . ( and then do # 1 while it 's still a bit cold ) Put it into muffin pans or similar for baking , so you do n't have to worry about it holding up on its own or even attempting to shape it . ( if you can shape it a little bit , you can then put it into a pan with enough of a lip to give them some support as they rise ; they might spread into each other , but you can typically break them apart after they 're baked ) In general , I find that kneading dough in a mixer ( unless specifically called for in a recipes ) always needs more flour . Basically , when you 're kneading normally , you might work in 1/2 cup or so of extra flour . And there are the issues with knowing what the proper way to <URL> if the measurements are given in volume ( cups ) and not by weight , which will easily throw off any bread recipe .
You 're basing this question on an incorrect answer . Like you said , the boiling temperature of water is lower at higher altitudes , which means it takes longer to cook things in boiling water , due to the lower temperature . There 's no benefit that I 'm aware of in intentionally lowering the boiling point of water ( which a pinch of salt does not do , anyway ) . If you wanted to cook something in water at a lower temperature , you can always just use less heat to keep it below the boiling point . Put another way , water that is boiling at 190 & deg ; F does not cook food at the same rate that water boiling at 212 & deg ; F does , even though they are both boiling .
end question
start question
Freezing Tomatoes for Winter ?
When I freeze tomatoes , the main thing I worry about is getting the skin off . To do this , score the bottom with an X , then blanch . After cooling in ice water , pull the skin off . I have n't ever worried about the details you mention , or about cutting them up , and I have had great success .
You want to use an oil that will handle the hotter temperatures of a wok . This <URL> suggests that most refined oils will work fine . Do n't use unrefined oils or butter because they 'll burn . Once you 've got an oil that will handle the heat , you want something that will taste good . I think that 's the main issue with olive oil . There are n't olives in asian cuisine and I think that would taste a bit funny . I tend to use vegetable or canola oil for the majority of my stir-frying and then add a little sesame oil towards the end ( generally when sauteing garlic and ginger ) . The sesame oil adds a strong asian flavor to the food . I 've tried just using sesame oil , as a recipe sometimes recomends , but I find the flavor overpowering . Unrefined sesame oil is fairly common at the grocery store , and you do n't want to use that as it will burn in the wok ( but it could be drizzled on the food after cooking ) .
Iceberg Lettuce , as it is also very low in vitamins and minerals like celery and has a good crunch . According to the USDA 's " MyPlate " , 1 cup of iceberg is 1/2 serving vegetables , and 1 stalk of celery is 1/2 serving vegetables , so to get equivalent nutritional value for 2 stalks would take 2 cups shredded . You could add more vitamins and minerals by replacing the celery with something more nutrient dense .
Sorry for taking your time , everyone . It turns out a visit to the candy store was all I needed . They 've got the original Pop Rocks .
If you are handy with electrics and electronics , linking a heating element to a PID controller is probably your best bet for stability . This will give you quite stable temperatures . You can find many sets of instructions by googling <URL> , which is a very similar application , although higher temperature ranges are usually the goal .
As a substitute for untoasted sesame oil , most light oils will work ( light olive , peanut , canola , sunflower , etc ) . Any nut or seed oil should be pretty close . Toasted sesame oil has a much bolder and nuttier flavor . It could perhaps be approximated with a light oil and adding toasted sesame to your dish .
According to Handbook of Food Science , Technology , and Engineering , Volume 3 , edited by Yiu H. Hui , the freezing of any meats , ( particularly red meats ) , causes cell walls to rupture the rate of rupture is inversely proportionate to the rate freezing Since household-grade freezers are of the slower sort , owing to an effort toward energy efficiency , when we at home freeze meats we are doing about as much damage as possible to the structural integrity of the meat at its most fundamental level , to wit , its cell walls . The reason this is relevant to the question [ of brining before or after freezing ] is as follows . To brine meat is to infuse it with water or , as the wiki on Brining states <URL> , ... makes cooked meat moister by hydrating the cells of its muscle tissue before cooking , via the process of osmosis , ... Since water , unique among all molecules , is the only substance which actually expands when frozen rather than contracts , the absorption of additional water into the individual cells of the meat is now guaranteed to facilitate further rupturing of the cell walls , that is , if brining is performed prior to freezing . Certainly therefore it is counterproductive to attempt to brine meat before freezing it , at least in the home setting . The greater quantity of ruptured cell walls , caused by the introduction into the cells of more water prior to freezing , ensures that the meat once thawed and undergoing preparation will have that many fewer cell walls in tact , that is , cell walls by which to keep the moisture in the cell . The result will be a product less moist than one would have obtained had brining not been performed . <URL> we find a perfectly thorough blog entry on the brining of turkey where , it must be said , we find that the author does not present a brine-to-freeze option . The author does however confirm that " 11 % sodium " on the label represents a turkey brined by the manufacturer , ( which we 'll hope to find refrigerated by our grocer , not frozen ) . The above graphic , which applies only tangentially to the question at hand , was obtained from that blog entry . Its relevance however speaks for itself .
I make gingerbread houses every year . Walls should be approximately 1/4 inch thick . I have found that cutting the pieces first to work best . Yes there is some spread , but when they come out of the oven , I replace the stencil and trim up any spread ( for the straight outside edges , a pizza cutter works well ) . I know it sounds redundant , but sometimes I do n't cut quick enough , or I am distracted by the phone , or any other number of things , if I only cut after baking . With the items pre-cut , if I get distracted , I at least have a usable part . Granted I may have to shave any spread very gently with a microplane or the edge of a knife , but that is just what works for me . I also will roll the dough out on parchment paper , cut and remove the excess , then slide the whole thing onto a pan for baking . This way , you do n't get any " stretch " of your pieces . I have several square cookie cutters that I will use to cut out the windows and such . I make the windows rectangular by using the cookie cutter and cutting a square then moving it and cutting another half square . This is helpful because when the gingerbread comes out of the oven , you do n't have to spend a lot of time with a knife trimming the inside of all the windows ... you just punch any spread out with the cookie cutter . As Sobachatina mentioned , melted sugar makes beautiful windows . I however , will lay the walls on a silicone mat and pour the sugar directly into the window holes . No need to " glue . " I 'd hate for you to make a gingerbread house with the " wrong " icing . You want an icing that will dry rock hard , like cement . For this you will want to use " Royal Icing . " For larger houses , use canned goods to hold the walls in place while the icing dries . The house should be built at least one day before you start decorating , to be sure it has set up really good .
Butter is at most 82 % oil and the rest is water . So , you 're going to need to add more butter for the same amount of oil . Besides , you need to adjust the liquid content accordingly since you are going to have more water than you planned . If you are going to use the same amount of oil , then it will not make any difference other than the taste . Just make sure they are of same state ( i.e. melted butter instead of vegetable oil or vice versa )
Butter and margarine freeze perfectly . I generally stock up during sales and thaw it as needed . You just have to make sure it 's wrapped tightly in the foil , to prevent oxidation . It 'll keep at least 6 months , probably more if you do n't have a self-defrosting freezer . Thawing butter does take quite a while , however . I usually give a package a few days to thaw fully . If you need butter in a hurry , you can always put it in a Ziploc bag and fast thaw it a bowl under running running water . Or , just soften it in the microwave .
It 's absolutely fine to make the dough in advance , just do n't let it dry out . It even freezes well . There is more good information on <URL> on the subject . Keep it on the counter for up to a day , refrigerated for up to three days , frozen for up to 6 months ( for best quality ) . In any case that you want to hold the dough , be sure that your baking powder ( if using ) is of the <URL> variety .
<URL> are a snack food . I would not expect for you to be able to make humus out of them ; for one thing , they would have way too much salt , and the texture would be wrong . It might be possible with a lot of experimentation , but you 'd need to go through several failed batches before you got one which worked . Personally , I 'd just go back to the store .
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
It is absolutely worth adding ground pork or veal . I usually use a leaner ground steak and compensate with a fatty ground pork ( shoulder is good ) - fat = flavour . Another tip is to take your time . Many people try and cook bolognese in half an hour , but considering ground meat is usually made with tougher cuts , you end up with tough meat and under-developed flavours . Use plenty of onions and garlic , brown your meat well , use good wine , stock , tomatoes and herbs ( thyme , rosemary and bay ) and gently simmer that bad boy for at least 3 hours . For ultimate flavour , cook it the day before and let the flavours marry overnight .
It wo n't be as nice if you place meat into the fresh tomato sauce . The reason why is because you are then essentially boiling the mince , so you wo n't have any caramelisation happening . That caramelisation adds a good amount of flavour to the sauce , so you 'll be losing that . Sure , the mince may dry during the frying process , but remember that it will get ' rehydrated ' anyway when you throw it into the sauce afterwards . Also , by frying the mince , you render out all the fat that can be used to fry the Mirepoix to add extra flavour . I like to add the wine to help deglaze the pot/pan once I 've fried everything , then I reduce to half , then I add the tomatoes last .
With any game I automatically think about avoiding overcooking as it is quite lean , however any sausage may have fat added to it to prevent it drying out , so a simple look at your sausage should tell you how much fat it has . If it is really dark with very little white in it then there 's little fat and you need to make sure you do n't overcook them , if there 's a good proportion of fat then cook them as you would normally . The best reference I have for cooking game is out of an app called <URL> which says : The trouble with game is that you do n't know where it 's been . Modern animal husbandry has eliminated many common foodborne illnesses and makes raised meat very safe but wild meat may have some diseases . For this reason some recommend that game be cooked to a minimum of 160F ( 71C ) which is where all foodborne illnesses are wiped out , however with most game this will make it dry and unpalatable . You as the cook must balance safety and flavor/tenderness . When eating be sure to be on the lookout for metal shot or bullets . To me there 's no point in buying game if you plan to cook it until it 's dry , so I aim to cook it to medium at 145F/63C at the most . It 's hard to gauge with sausages , so with low-fat game sausages I 'd brown them off and get them out pretty quick . As long as they 're firm you should be ok .
If you are really set on doing this , just use the same amount by weight or volume , preferably peeling the tomatoes first . ( Cut an x in the bottom , dip in boiling water for 10 seconds , pull off the peel ) . You 'll have plenty of liquid coming out of the tomato , do n't worry about that . But honestly , I do n't recommend doing this . Fresh tomatoes that are any good are so good uncooked that it is a waste , and fresh tomatoes that are n't good wo n't get better by cooking them . Even Mario Batali says you should use canned tomatoes for cooked sauces .
The following are sugar substitutes that are not considered " artificial sweetners . " The links provide interesting information that should be pondered before using any of them . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> For actual unrefined cane syrup or sugar ( considered healthier than sugar by those who consider less refined to equal more healthy ) , look to <URL> <URL> For artificial sweeteners , you could consider : <URL> ( you can get this in quantities suitable for baking at most grocery stores ) If you 're looking to lower your sugar , before going to artificial sweeteners do n't discount just teaching yourself a lower sugar diet by eating smaller portions of sweets and making your own sweets with a lower sugar content .
I 've had the same problem once . The first substitute is <URL> . But they 're not easy to find either . The second one is using <URL> . Tamales will be done in the same time and you could eat the leaf if you want . I 've tried it once and it came out great . Here it 's a recipe for <URL> . Here it is a graphic <URL> . They are written in Spanish , let me know if you need a translator ;) PS . My mexican mother in law used to do it with chard .
I work around this by serving tomatoes on the top of the individual salads after they 've been portioned out . I 'm not sure of a way to keep them incorporated .
end question
start question
Why does the " almost no knead bread " recipe use beer ? Can it be replaced ?
The purpose of the beer ( and the vinegar ) in this case is to add some of the malty , fermenty flavors typical of longer-fermented or sourdough breads . You can either leave it out and replace it with an equal quantity of water or use a <URL> The carbonation from the beer might add a little extra lift at the start to establish some air cells and work the gluten a bit , but with an 18 hour room-temperature bulk rise , that benefit would be negligible . In most beers ( especially large US commercial bottlers ) there is n't enough active yeast left in the bottle by the time it is drunk to do anything either . The author of the original article ( Cook 's Illustrated # 90 , Jan 2008 ) added the beer and vinegar in order to add flavor to a bread recipe that already produced decent bread . My bread now had tang [ from the vinegar ] , but it lacked complexity . What I needed was a concentrated shot of yeasty flavor . As I racked my brain , I realized that beyond bread , there is another commonly available substance that relies on yeast for flavor : beer .
Beer , like wine or coffee , is often used when a reduction over a long cooking time is called for but water would be sub-optimal . I make chili a lot . Water is not your friend there , especially if you incorporate a lot of elements that have water in them to begin with ( undried/roasted tomatoes in particular ) . Beer does n't add the acidity that coffee does , but it is great for adding sugars and the maltier flavors . The sugars are n't precisely ' sweeter ' but rather add depth of flavor . I 'd be interested in the effect of carbonation on the cooking process , however since carbonation is supposedly lost faster at higher temperatures I 'd imagine it 's less than expected . Beer can be used to de-glaze and so on ; its lower alcohol makes it much less reactive ( than marsala or liquor ) and the sugars make it as likely to glaze over . Still it imparts some flavor depending on the context . The type of beer you should use is largely up to you . They differ greatly in flavor and composition . <URL> Another consideration is to look into Cicerones ; it 's a certification people get where ( more for large scale operations than restaurants or personal use ) , in addition to knowledge of processing and manufacturing , <URL> . An additional consideration is how long the beer will be cooking down . The longer the cook down , the more the flavors will be less distinct . However , there are flavors that are frequently only found in beer ; hoppiness , roasted malt , and ( the effects of open fermentation with ) wild yeast can do amazing things in a dish . Creating a side reduction minimizes the cook down and can preserve the flavors .
As the bacon cooks the meat reduces in size faster than the fat does . Since they are cut into strips this causes the fat to bunch up or even coil if the bacon is n't flipped enough . The fat will eventually reduce as well when it renders but not enough to straighten out the poor bacon .
Short answer - not really . Fat is an essential component in any cake , and milk just is n't very fatty - about 5 % for whole milk . You can make cakes with milk , but they require totally different recipes : you ca n't simply substitute milk for oil . Bear in mind that you 're distributing the cup of oil throughout a whole cake , so that any one slice will only have a fraction of the oil . I assume you 'll also be sharing the cake with others , so you 'll be ' spreading the calories ' somewhat . You should be using a neutral oil like canola ( rapeseed ) oil anyway , as it has a relatively mild flavour . A popular alternative these days is to substitute all but a couple of tablespoons of the oil with apple sauce ( really ) , but this can be hit and miss and does n't work with all recipes - it usually works best with things like quick breads ( scones etc ) . Of course , there 's also the point that cakes are supposed to be a treat , and they 'd be less of a treat without the fat , in which case why bother ? If you want to be healthy , make a salad . If you want a treat , make a cake and do n't worry about the contents too much .
Kneading does two things . First it mixes all the ingredients uniformly . You have to do this no matter what , but you only really have to do it enough to mix the ingredients . If you keep kneading beyond the mixing stage , you are applying energy ( which equals heat ) to the yeast which makes it ferment , generating the tiny bubbles which make bread fluffy . The yeast will ferment on its own , but kneading just accelerates that process . Historically , dough was proved ( left in a hot humid place ) for about 18 hours allowing it to rise slowly in order to make bread . In 1961 a process was developed in England called the <URL> . Essentially you work the heck out of the dough with high-speed mixers . The extra few minutes of high energy mixing applies heat to the yeast , which dramatically reduces the fermentation period required , allowing you to make bread much more quickly ... at factory-type speeds . Factories can make bread in a couple of hours instead of having to prepare dough one day and bake it the next .
Its been a while but I found this thread as I was wondering the same thing ... Not much info on raw okara but I just googled raw soybeans ... " For human consumption , soybeans must be cooked with " wet " heat to destroy the trypsin inhibitors ( serine protease inhibitors ) . Raw soybeans , including the immature green form , are toxic to humans , swine , chickens , and in fact , all monogastric animals . " From wikipedia <URL>
You can use ' no-boil ' pasta straight from the box , alternatively , you can soak it it warm water for a few minutes . The soaked pasta may prove to be a little easier to manipulate when building the lasagne . However , providing there is enough liquid in the sauce , soaking is unnecessary . Personally , I 'd cover the dish with foil until the last 10 to 15 minutes of the cooking process , this will allow the pasta to cook and it should prevent the sauce from drying out . The last 10 to 15 minutes uncovered will provide the colour .
Fundamentally , the reason for this substitution is that applesauce contains <URL> . In baking , the role of oil is to coat the flour , preventing it from combining with the water ( or other wet ingredients ) and developing <URL> . Gluten is what causes dough to rise , and also gives elasticity to the final product - what most people think of as " chewiness . " When you 're baking , for example , a cake , or even a pie crust , you want to limit the amount of gluten that develops . A cake or pie crust should be moist , light , and fluffy , not tough and chewy . When you bite into a cake and find it very dry and bread-like , that is because it has developed a lot of gluten . A good amount of oil or other fat leads to a lighter , moister , less-glutinous result . The pectin in applesauce can also , to a certain extent , help to inhibit gluten formation in a dough , but the similarities end there . I can not stress this point enough , and I 've seen many other online resources get this dead wrong : Pectin ( applesauce ) is not a straightforward or foolproof substitute for fat . The mechanisms by which pectin and oil work in this context are completely different : Oil is a <URL> . Lipids bind to starch ( including the ~ 75 % starch in flour ) and are <URL> - the traditional example of this is dew drops forming on the surface of grass or plants ( the latter being the hydrophobe ) . In a sense , oil forms a protective " shield " around the flour molecules . Pectin , on the other hand , is a <URL> , and specifically a <URL> . Pectin is not hydrophobic and does not actually protect the flour molecules . In fact , pectin is of the same family as starches , which are also polysaccharides . What 's really happening here is that the pectin competes with the flour for water . That means less water overall reaches the starch and gluten-forming proteins ( giladin and glutenin ) in the flour , and because of this , it is not able to develop as much gluten or gelatinize much of the other starch . What does all of this actually mean for you , the baker ? Quite simply , it means you have to be very careful with this substitution : Too much pectin can turn your recipe into a jelly-like consistency . Too little pectin will fail to prevent glutenization ( in other words , you 'll get bread ) . Pectin has the property of <URL> - meaning that once it starts to gel , it also starts to expel liquid , and your dessert will dry out or deflate over time . Pectin is actually water-soluble at high temperatures ( technically , it forms a <URL> ) , it just happens to absorb a lot of water along the way . Baking for too long , or at too high a temperature , will cause the pectin to break down and dissolve completely , making it useless . There are also several other problems ( or at least " gotchas " ) when making the apple sauce substitution : Applesauce is <URL> . It has a good deal of water and various proteins and acids , and even a certain amount of lipids . The exact quantities , however , depend on how the applesauce was made , so it is very hard to get precise control over the amount of pectin , and the textbook 1:1 substitution ratio is almost never correct . Another thing that applesauce contains is sugar - even unsweetened applesauce . You will almost certainly need to reduce the amount of sugar elsewhere in your recipe . This may be difficult , especially if the bulk of the sugar is used as a dry ingredient . Applesauce behaves somewhat similarly to oil , but do not even try using it as a substitute for any other fat . Butter , in particular , contains milk proteins which act as natural emulsifiers ; pectin does have certain stabilizing properties but is a rather poor emulsifier compared to butter [ citation needed ] . And it goes without saying that the flavour is substantially different from that of applesauce ; oil is " OK " to substitute for because it has very little flavour of its own . If you plan on using applesauce as a substitute for oil in a recipe that does not specifically explain how to use it as a substitute , then I strongly suggest you do two things : Do n't substitute the entire quantity . Use 1/2 oil , 1/2 applesauce , or maybe 1/4 oil and 3/4 applesauce . You will likely also have to lower the total quantity of oil/applesauce to approximately half of what it originally was ( give or take 1/4 ) . If you can , try this substitution on a small scale first , and experiment with the quantities of oil , sugar , and applesauce , before going all-out and putting it into the oven while your guests arrive . It 's very likely that on the first few attempts , you 'll end up with something that 's palatable , but nowhere near the quality of the oil-based recipe . Ignore these disclaimers at your own risk !
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
The Chinese eggplant will have a thinner skin , less seeds ( read : less bitterness ) ; as a result , it will have an overall more delicate flavor . You can substitute a globe eggplant ( the kind usually sold in American grocery stores ) equally ; just be aware you 'll get extra " eggplant " flavor . Since the recipe you 're using has strong flavors already , this should not be a problem . However , if the recipe were using more delicate flavors , it would not turn out quite as the recipe author intended .
While it might seem like a drastic step to double the amount of egg in your recipe , in fact , you are not adding that much more egg relative to the amounts of your other ingredients . A whole large egg weighs about 50 grams and is roughly 75 % water so that extra half egg will contribute just under 20 grams of additional liquid to your recipe - you will need to compensate for that additional liquid either by reducing your water contribution accordingly or by adding a little extra flour ( like 30-ish grams ) . That means you are only adding an additional 5 grams of protein and fat from the egg by including that extra half . You will probably notice a slightly more tender or soft texture in your finished loaf from the slight increase in egg . Since texture and flavor are so subjective and difficult to describe , the best way I can think of to communicate the possible change is to ask you to think about Challah bread . Challah bread owes much of its characteristic texture , color , and flavor to the inclusion of a lot of egg in the dough . While adding that extra half egg wo n't bring your recipe into Challah territory , it will advance your bread 's texture , color , and flavor along the spectrum in the Challah direction .
Much of the bitterness in breads made from whole wheat is caused by the phenolic acid and tannins in the bran layer of the wheat . Different varieties of wheat have different levels of those compounds and produce breads with different levels of bitterness . " Traditional " varieties of wheat , such as red wheat , contain high levels of tannins , while hard white spring wheat contains relatively low levels of tannins . Here is what <URL> has to say about this subject : With whole wheat , taste differences boil down to the tannin content of the bran . These red pigments in hard red wheat carry a bitter flavor . " ... Whiter whole-grain varieties typically contain fewer tannins , which results in a less bitter taste , " said Brook Carson , technical product manager , ADM Milling , Shawnee Mission , Kansas . " Differences in taste can also be overcome with added sweetness or with a masking agent . " Based on your question , it sounds likely the Pillsbury Chakki Fresh Atta whole wheat flour you use for making parathas is milled from either hard white spring wheat or a blend of the white wheat with a more traditional variety of wheat resulting in a non-bitter end product . There is another possible source of bitterness in bread made from whole wheat flour , although it should n't really affect commercially made bread . When whole wheat flour is milled , it includes the oil containing wheat germ , which is different than refined white flour where the wheat germ is removed prior to milling . This oil in the whole wheat flour results in it having a much shorter shelf life than white flour and makes it susceptible to rancidity if not stored properly . Commercial bakeries go through ( literally ) tons of flour , so their whole wheat flour should n't be sitting around long enough to go bad . I can tell you from first-hand experience , one of the signs whole wheat flour has started to go rancid is an increase in bitterness .
I 've used dark beer with good results . It just depends on what flavor you desire . I often use Lion stout , for example , which imparts a strong , intense flavor and color , which I quite like , but it would not be appropriate for all applications . Also Sierra Nevada porter has happily found its way into my bread . Keep in mind that these beers may be too strongly flavored for your taste , in which case you can add some lighter beer to balance it out ( lager or pilsner ) . Personally I do n't like to add pale ales to bread as I do n't enjoy the way the hop flavor comes through , but this comes down to personal preference . In general , the flavor of the beer will come through in the bread , but you wo n't notice all of the subtleties of flavor that you do when drinking , so I would n't put too expensive a beer in bread -- the bread will turn out fine , but you 're not going to appreciate the beer to its fullest .
I 've seen bread recipes like the one that you described . When bread is baked in an oven with steam - the starch in the crust is able to gelatinize before it all dries out and becomes crispy . This is what makes the crust crisp , shiny , and delicious - characteristic of " artisan " breads . Most people do n't have steam enhanced ovens ( or the ability to hack their oven to add steam : <URL> ) The recipe you linked has water added for steam but then takes out extra insurance ( they cheat ) by adding the cornstarch glaze to mimic the effect . By adding extra , pure , starch on the surface of the loaf more gelatinization occurs . Additionally , cornstarch gelatinizes at a lower temperature that wheat starch . Conceivably , you should be able to use any starch and see similar results but , in the US at least , cornstarch is by far the most common . It should n't be necessary if you are able to produce enough steam in your oven .
Beer Can Chicken has a few tricks to have it turn out amazing as opposed to just average . I always take my thawed chicken and rub it all over inside and out with vegetable oil and pureed garlic ( about one large clove ) . Then I coat the skin with seasonings like salt , pepper , seasoned salt or chicken/poultry seasoning like sage or an \ Italian mix ; you can use anything the you want . Cajun spice and lemon are also pretty good . The beer has to have some flavour to it , do n't use a light beer . Apple ciders ( strong bow , perry 's pear cider , black thorne ) or a white wine/cooking cherry will also do the trick . I use a half a pop/beer can and then stuff the chicken and the bottom tray with onions , red peppers , garlic and celery . The key to crispy skin and moist chicken is low heat on the BBQ , turn one side onto medium heat and put the chicken on the off side with the lid closed for 20 minutes per pound of chicken . Practice makes perfect ... chicken .
Buttermilk has a delicious flavor that is not at all approximated by lemon juice . It 's true that lemon or vinegar with milk will clabber it a little and provide the acid that the recipe needs but the flavor will be distinctly lacking . Get some buttermilk . It 's inexpensive and has a longer shelf life than normal milk . It is also exceptionally easy to make . If you make it a standard part of your pantry you will find yourself enjoying life more ( or at least pancakes . )
Kneading dough has a few functions . First , it distributes the ingredients together evenly and allows the flour to become hydrated . As the flour starts to absorb water , enzymatic reactions occur and some proteins begin to mesh together . The two most important in this process are glutenin and gliadin . When these proteins start to get tangled up together , they form gluten , which is the protein that allows bread dough to stretch and trap gas bubbles produced by yeast . These reactions will occur on their own to an extent , as in no-knead recipes , but kneading accelerates the process . Kneading also allows you to control the texture of the bread . A vigorous knead can help to produce a bread with a fine crumb as the kneading an tighten the gluten , keeping the air bubbles more uniform . Doing short kneading periods ( or folds ) spaced by time for the dough to relax and rise can give you more extensible dough which can help give you a more open crumb structure . Finally , kneading is sometimes used to add inclusions to the dough that would disrupt it 's activity if added to early . This can be things like seeds , which would cut gluten strands if included too early in the process , or things like butter in a brioche , which would shorten the dough if included before the gluten had already developed .
Most of the ice creams I 've made have been custard-based , meaning that egg yolks are cooked together with cream and sugar . The mixture is chilled and then churned . For a custard-style ice cream recipe including cocoa powder , the cocoa would likely be dissolved during the cooking step . If you are following a no-cook recipe that includes cocoa powder , I would at least use a whisk to mix the cocoa in as thoroughly as possible . However , dissolving the cocoa in a hot liquid would likely result in a smoother ice cream . Not sure what kind of recipe you are following , but you could probably heat the milk/cream , stir in the cocoa powder to dissolve , then chill the mixture before churning it .
You probably are used to having a lot of sugar in your mixes . Use lime-ade instead of lime juice , or add some simple syrup . Adding orange juice also helps . Of course , this is n't " traditional " , but you 'll probably like it better . If you 're looking for a ratio , I would try something like 2 parts tequila , 1 part triple sec , 2 parts lime-ade , 2 parts orange juice . Adjust the lime-ade and orange juice until it tastes good to you .
Most small bakeries use small rotary mixers ( like a Kenwood that stands as high as a man ) that handle batches up to about 100lb - using a dough hook for bread . The really big bakeries use trough mixers with blades that turn along the length of the trough . A typical batch is around 600lb .
end question
start question
Which Korean dishes are typically hottest ?
I found ojingeo bokkeum ( 오징어볶음 ) , which is squid stir-fried in a chilli sauce , to be pretty intense , especially as a jeongol ( 전골 ) or stew , where it 's both hot ( as in spicy ) and hot ( as in temperature ) . The sweetness of the stew does nothing to lessen the intensity of the dish . Also ridiculously spicy is buldak ( 불닭 ) , which is again a stir-fry of chicken in a chilli sauce , with tteok ( 떡 ) or rice cake .
If you heard people talking about " thick " vs. " thin " soy sauce , they were probably actually referring to dark vs. light soy sauce . Dark soy sauce does not actually refer to the colour . It does tend to be darker than natural fermented soy sauce , but if you 're comparing to the hydrolyzed kind ( the most common sold in stores ) , it will look about the same in terms of colour . What actually distinguishes dark soy sauce is that it is aged longer and has added molasses , which makes it thick , sticky and syrupy . Dark soy sauce does taste quite different from light soy sauce , even when it 's the same brand . Dark soy sauce replaces some of the saltiness of light soy sauce with sweetness instead , and in general just has a " bolder " taste . It 's usually used as a cooking ingredient , not a condiment . I 've heard , but ca n't verify , that it is more common in Japanese cooking than other Asian cuisines ( although I have used it with much success in Chinese and Thai dishes ) . I 've started to see a lot more ordinary grocery stores carrying dark soy sauce , but until recently it was difficult to find unless you went to an Asian grocery store , and may still be difficult in some regions . Unless the bottle specifically says dark soy sauce , it is light soy sauce . You should not directly substitute one for the other . As for your comment about the one you bought tasting too " hot " - you must have bought a chili-infused soy sauce or something . Ordinary soy sauce ( dark or light ) is never spicy-hot .
Based on your description , it looks like you 've made the common error of assuming that equal volume is equal weight . Butter is more dense than flour so the same volume does not equal the same weight ... you must convert the 1/4 cup for each product using a trustworthy site . Here 's one that <URL> and includes both butter and flour . As you can see , 1/4 cup of butter is 57 grams . If you look at the next chart , you see the conversion for flour and you can see that 1/4 cup of flour is only 32 grams ! This means that , if you added 60 grams of each , you 've got twice as much flour ( the thickening agent ) than the recipe calls for ... so of course it 's going to be way too thick . I recommend you start over and be more careful with your conversions . As a note , my standard recipe for Mac and Cheese uses 4 tbsp each of flour and butter ( generally equivalent to 1/4 cup ) while it only calls for two cups of milk rather than three , so I usually have a much thicker white sauce than yours will be and I find it quite enjoyable . The <URL> ( an iconic American cookbook ) recipe calls for the same percentages for their white sauce - 2:2 tbsp of butter/flour with 1 cup of milk . To answer your questions in the comments , pure butter ( rather than spreadable butter/margarine or butter blends ) in the US is usually sold in one pound boxes containing four sticks per box . Each stick is 1/4 pound of butter which is equivalent to 1/2 cup . Each stick is wrapped in waxed paper and has tick marks to show each tablespoon of butter for a total of eight tablespoons . <URL> Occasionally the paper is n't perfectly aligned but it 's usually a simple matter to adjust your cut position to allow for the offset . So , a cup of butter is two sticks , a 1/4 cup of butter is a half stick . and a tablespoon is 1/8th of a stick . Your second question I think comes from a misunderstanding of how thick the white sauce is when completed correctly . With the proper percentages of flour and butter ( and using two cups of milk ) , the final consistency you get is somewhere between thick cream-based soup and thin hummus . Adding the cheese usually does n't effect the thickness because the cheese melts and is about the same consistency as the white sauce . I also like adding softer cheeses that melt well like goat cheese for both flavor and textural reasons . Once baked , the final outcome will be fairly solid and casserole-like . You should be able to cut it with a knife and expect it to hold its shape to a good degree , like this : <URL> This recipe will not make the creamy-style macaroni and cheese ( an example is shown below . That is a different process and is generally not baked . <URL> So that you can see the differences in the recipes of baked and creamy styles I 'll link you to a couple " creamy-style " mac and cheese recipes from other sources . This is a <URL> from Whole Foods Market , an American grocery chain and here 's a <URL> recipe from Serious Eats .
The cheeses that just plain wo n't work in the fridge are those that make use of bacteria or mold with " special needs " . Swiss , camembert , and any blue cheese come to mind . The bacteria that produce the holes in Swiss need specific , relatively warm , temps for specific times . Likewise the molds on the rinds or through blue cheeses need warmer but still cooler than room temperature . Most semi-firm to firm cheeses can be aged just fine in a fridge . Many generic cheese recipes such as : <URL> or <URL> either say to age in the fridge or do n't give a temperature at all and just say " age in a cool place " . In particular cheddar or gouda like cheeses age just fine in the fridge . Parmesan should also work but I personally have n't had the patience to wait the year necessary to try it . Of course if generic-cheddar-like cheese is n't good enough and you want to recreate some particular cheddar that will be harder . Those recipes usually call for something like " Age for 6 months in this particular cave in France " . As for room temperature . I do n't know . Room temperature at my house is 80F and no cheese will work with that .
Fruit relishes ( including salsas , chutneys , and plain sauces like applesauce ) can be made without vinegar . But they almost always include some extra acid - if not vinegar , then usually citrus juice . The acidity balances the sweetness of the fruit , and it preserves the color . So you can make a fruit relish , substitute lemon or lime juice for the vinegar , and use it . But of course , without a full pickling process , the fruit relish will only have a limited life in the refrigerator .
Well , if you do n't want to spend a fortune on a <URL> , your best bet is a bone saw . Image from <URL> Here 's one on <URL> . Here 's a less expensive one from <URL> . Here 's a fairly reasonably priced <URL> . If I was going to do a lot of butchery , I 'd consider that .
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
For the most part this is a question of convenience and how quickly you go through a fresh supply of spices in the quantities you buy . Pretty much every dry spice will last better and be more aromatic and flavorful if it is stored whole . That applies to leaves , seeds , bark , you name it . Some really hard spices like nutmeg may not be appropriate for the coffee grinder ( maybe if you break it up some first ? ) , but those are at least large enough to get a good grip for hand-grating . One exception for me would be specialty pre-blended spice mixes which sometimes have ingredients that would be really hard to track down , or which you might have to buy in much larger quantities than you can reasonably use . ( If you can get all the ingredients easily then it is probably better to blend it yourself to your own preferences and in the quantities you need . ) Another exception in my kitchen is hing ( asafetida ) which is a resin that in its pure form is extremely pungent and I find it difficult to work with . Commercially-prepared hing powder is generally diluted with rice flour and is much easier to use in appropriate quantities .
While ideally Parmesan may be stored ( at home ) in refrigerated environment , there is no harm done to it ( assuming nothing else like condensation occurs ) by allowing it to sit at a warmer temperature for a few days . It is , after all , aged at ambient temperature for 2 years . At least where I live , stores do not even put Parmesan in a refrigerated case ; it is sold from tables at room temperature would would be slightly higher than what you measured in the shipping box . I think your 18 C cheese should be just fine . See also : <URL>
Two properties of salt that oregano does n't have : water solubility : you drop salt in water , you put it on chicken , you put it in tomato sauce . Most or all of it ends up dissolving , making it easier to mix . osmosis : related to above . Sprinkle some salt on raw meat . Come back in 5 minutes and you 'll see beads of liquid on the meat , almost like it was sweating . That 's a combination of salt dissolving into the liquid on the surface of the meat , and osmosis pulling less salty water out of the cells of the meat to balance the salty water on the surface . In 10 minutes , some of that liquid will have disappeared . Part of this might be due to evaporation , but part of this is due to the liquid pulling salt into the cells , which changes the equilibrium and allows for the cells to draw liquid back in ( principle behind brining meats ) . Salt has a natural way of penetrating organic matter that oregano and many other seasonings do n't . There are other mechanisms at play too -- salty foods can make you salivate , which may make something feel " juicier " in your mouth . I 'd highly recommend <URL> as a start .
The King Arthur website lists the ingredients for that item : <URL> It looks like the " sour " flavor comes from several acids ( acetic , lactic , and citric ) . I assume the recipe calls for " sour " flavor instead of being a sourdough recipe like a traditional rye bread would be . Pickle juice may be a good substitute , since it 's mainly vinegar [ i.e. acetic acid ] . The " bread improver " also includes wheat gluten , which may be helpful if you 're using a non-bread flour ( bread flour contains more gluten than whole wheat or AP flours ) .
The larger ring will transmit more energy , but spread over the size of the ring ; so the density is probably roughly the same . So using an element bigger than your pot/wok bottom is basically just a waste of heat/energy . Some supporting evidence added by DMA57361 : I 've recently gotten a free energy monitor , which tells me the current power consumption of my entire home . So , with a bit of experimentation , I have worked out the approximate power output of each ring on my hob , and this backs up that they have approximately the same output density .
The lowest-cost option is definitely bones , assuming you do n't actually need or want pieces of meat in the soup . When I say bones I 'm referring to the parts that are normally thrown out as waste products , especially the necks , feet , and carcasses . If you ca n't find them at a supermarket , talk to a butcher . They are sold for next to nothing - usually less than $ 1/kg , sometimes as low as $ 0.50 / kg . That is even less than the per-unit cost of a whole chicken . Some butchers ( no promises ! ) will even give them away for free , or at least haggle a little bit , especially if their business is small . You can roast these and simmer ( not boil ) them over a period of several hours to produce a very rich stock . Usually you would do this with a mirepoix and/or bouquet garni for flavour . When it 's done , you strain it , and then add fresh or frozen vegetables , noodles , etc. , to stretch it into a full meal or at least a hearty soup . If I really wanted meat in the soup , I 'd opt for thighs , as they are inexpensive and ( once butchered ) you can throw the bones in with the rest . Other than pure bones , the " budget " option for chicken is almost always the whole chicken , if you can use it all . That means doing your own boning and butchering , then using the bones and trimmings for stock/soup and finding ways to use the offal ( combs , hearts , livers , etc. ) The offal really is n't any good in soup , so if you just want chicken soup , then stick to just bones and one inexpensive cut ( over here it 's thighs , but this may vary by location ) .
From <URL> : When you clean the fish , remove the skin and any dark-colored flesh . This part of the fish is especially strong tasting and somewhat oily . Check out these fish recipes to learn to cook bluefish . Also see <URL> for advices on improving the flavor ( e.g. soak it in milk ) .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
More or less , yes . Just know that eggs of different species have different " flavors . " There may be some issues with substituting in dishes due to varying fat content of the yolks and such ... I 've had duck and goose egg quiches . I 've had fried quail eggs on toast . I have yet to try an ostrich or emu egg .
I 've had a good look and as far as I can see only cloves and allspice have this property . Most websites specify that it 's due to an oil present in cloves however according to Wikipedia the main chemical components in clove oil ( admittedly not cloves but fairly similar ) are : Bud oil is derived form the flower-buds of S. aromaticum . It consists of 60 -- 90 % eugenol , eugenyl acetate , caryophyllene and other minor constituents . Leaf oil is derived from the leaves of S. aromaticum . It consists of 82 -- 88 % eugenol with little or no eugenyl acetate , and minor constituents . Stem oil is derived from the twigs of S. aromaticum . It consists of 90 -- 95 % eugenol , with other minor constituents . As neither eugenol , eugenyl acetate nor caryophyllene have this property the oil that does cause ' plastic clouding ' must be fairly low . Likewise the main chemical components of allspice oil according to Essential-oils . co.za are : eugenol , menthyl eugenol , cineol , phellandrene and caryophyllene . None of these chemicals have chemicals with that property . However many of the chemicals in allspice and clove are also present in nutmeg , black pepper and cinnamon .
I like the first answer , but feel the need to clarify the ' pepperoni ' reference . Yes , they are slices of bagels . However , if you cut a bagel vertically in half as it rests flat and treat each half as if you were slicing a curved salumi , all of your chips will be inconsistently thick on one edge and thin on the other ( thanks to the properties of a torus ) . While that leaves them all consistently round , their thickness varies , which makes evenly toasting them a problem . The more conventional approach : take the whole bagel as it lies flat on the cutting board , and slice it vertically but thinly from one side to the other . There will be much more variation in chip shape , but it 's much easier to maintain the right thickness for even toasting . This is also why most ( if not all ) bags of chips are sliced in this manner , and you see such wild variation of circles , ovals , etc in chip shape . A Gildy 's Blade or a tightly serrated bread knife will do the job . Along with a bit of patience .
Consider what the " no cheating " version of the ingredient is , and get the closest thing to that , that 's convenient enough for you . For things like garlic , ginger , etc. , the " no-cheating " version is to get the fresh ingredients and crush/grate them - what you end up with is a paste . The paste you can buy in jars is this stuff , with preservatives added to make them last . Some flavour will be lost . To make powder , the paste is dried , and more flavour is lost . But the powder will keep for a long time in the cupboard . Note that some spices take on different , desirable flavours when processed . Paprika powder has its own properties when compared to fresh paprika peppers . You 'd use fresh ginger in many curries , powdered ginger in many cakes , candied ginger in some other sweet dishes . Recipes will specify what to use . For things like black pepper , cumin , turmeric , coriander seeds , the " no-cheating " version is to get whole seeds , roast them and grind them in a spice grinder or a pestle and mortar . So buying the ready-ground version is only one step away from the ideal . Try grinding your own at least once . The extra depth and complexity of flavour is striking . But for convenience , ready-ground spices are fine . " Roasting " , for small quantities of whole dry spice , involves briefly heating them on a hot dry pan . It brings out spice flavours you do n't get from just frying or boiling the spice . Of course , it 's optional . Ground spices have a shorter shelf life than whole dry spices . If you open a jar of powdered spice and it does n't have a strong aroma , throw it away -- you might as well use dust . Whole spices have the aroma " locked away " , to be released when you grind . To make a paste , these are sometimes mixed with wet ingredients ( like garlic and ginger ) , water and oil . That 's the basis of the jars of " spice mix " you can buy in supermarkets . It 's also the first step in many curry recipes -- grind your spices , mix with oil to make a paste , and gently fry before adding the onions .
It is the rice that is important , regardless of the cooker you use . If you think you are unable to find Sushi rice on your own in local market , why not check with a Sushi stall chef/owner near by ? Some people get mistaken with sticky rice , because really Sushi and sticky are on the same category . You could even say that Italian risotto is as well . However sushi rice is rinsed and surface starch is removed . Yamikuronue has already given you some good insight . Perhaps she could tell you what rice you could buy :) I hope you have the basic sushi rolling bamboo mat to help you with . From mine and many of others ' experience , the mat is very useful . I have used <URL> to make nice maki rolls . The following <URL> seems to be indicating a method ( water sprinkling ) that I saw/ate in a Japanese restaurant in Tokyo near Maru building . Hope it helps . Edit 1 : If you want to make best sushi out of normal rice , this is a bruteforce method we tried at home for the first time . Not the best Sushi found in a Sushi bar in Japan , but still it was a taste to remember , and an experience that made sense . break the long grain rice ( you can use a mortar , or bottle , or any clean/non-contaminated cylinder on your cutting board :) ) wash the rice until the starch goes away - even if it 's not 100 % , it 's good enough when you have soaked it . soak the rice rinse and wash again and rinse depending on the usual ' hardness ' of the rice you use , and how much water you add per cup of rice , you may have to change the amount of water you add . For example , if you have 50g of raw rice , and 75g of water , then the total weight is 125g . You must keep the same total weight when you add water to the soaked/washed rice . you can very well cook the rice in a pan good heat to cook rice : after boiling , bring down the heat to minimum and let it be , no need to take lid off once rice is cooked , you can mix it with sushi vinegar . If you do not have rice/sushi vinegar , then you can add some plain vinegar and pinches of salt mix all , stir well This gives you just nice rice for sushi :)
end question
start question
How do I distribute pastry in a tube pan ?
I 'm going to take a wild guess at what 's happening , based on what I know of thermodynamics , ( but I could be wrong about the whole thing ) When a cakes and bread bakes , it bakes from the outside ... as it forms a crust , it can no longer rise . ( for yeast breads , this is why we slash the top , so it can get a little extra rise out of it ) With a cake , as the sides set , it 'll continue to rise in the middle , creating a domed top . With a metal tube pan , the heat from the outside of the pan conducts to the middle of the pan , so the middle will set shortly after the outside . ... With the silicone pan , you 've actually got an insulator ... the heat 's not going to conduct to the inside , so it 's going to be able to rise longer than around the inside -- basically , the domed cake , but you 've got something for it to stick to , so it does n't fall back down as it sets . As I do n't think the issue is distribution of the batter , I 'd recommend trying other techniques to reduce the domedness of the cake -- cook it at a lower temperature ( try 25F / 15C lower ) for a longer time . You ca n't remove the problem entirely , but you might be able to reduce it . I 'd also look at the instructions that might 've come with the pan -- it 's possible that they have reommendations on how to deal with the problem . ( and it 's possible that this might not be as significant a problem in convection ovens , but replacing your whole oven for a set of pans is kinda silly )
The only good way I know of to concentrate fresh orange juice and maintain the flavor is by removing the water . But not by heating it , as the heat will destroy the flavor . You need a vacuum distiller or freeze dryer for your orange juice . Pulling a vacuum will boil the juice at room temperature , removing the water without adding any heat .
Quite often that look can be from having the temp too high on the oven . A convection oven should always be at least 25 ( and some people will say up to 50 ) degrees cooler than a ' normal ' oven . If you have n't tried it yet , knock down the temp of the oven . We used to call this ' lava tops ' , because basically the outside is baking and setting quickly , and then the insides pop out of the gelatinous surface , and they go in a funny direction ( often the way the fan blows ) . I 'm not saying that is the problem for sure , but if it were me , it would be the first thing I tried to eradicate the problem .
I suspect @Stephie is correct in thinking they may be over proofed . Having said that , you could try the method that is used when making crullers . Place shaped donuts on parchment paper that has been sprayed with non-stick cooking spray . Cut the paper into individual squares ( each donut should have enough space to raise without expanding off the paper ) . Let raise . When ready to fry , just slip the paper with donut into your oil , it should release right away and you can remove the paper from the oil with tongs . Here is a link to <URL> . You can skip the first 3 minutes that shows the mixing and piping of the crullers .
In general places that do this with pancakes do not cut-out , but indeed use a mold or the like . The scrambled eggs would likely look fine " cut " , but part of a pancake is the edge , even if it is modified by touching the edge of the mold . So long as the mold is metal , your dollar-store purchases should be fine . You will likely need to oil/butter them in some way so that the product - batter or egg - does not stick to the metal itself . I have myself used clean old tuna tins to make round " self-contained " fried eggs for a home version of a McMuffin .
Whenever you 're worried about something crisp being made soggy by something moist , the answer is usually fat . Brush the crust with butter or oil before you add the pears , and the oil will slow the absorption of water . Alternately , dry out your pears . Cook them a bit . Roll them in sugar to dry them out some . I 'm surprised the pear juice is making it through the cheesecake batter . Usually that stuff keeps the liquids locked up tight . Maybe try a drier cheesecake , or one with a bit more egg ?
We have been eating turkey burgers for years . The super secret is to not let them dry out while cooling . I take a pound of ground turkey , mixed 2 tablespoons of Worcestershire sauce , 1/2 teaspoon salt , 2 shakes garlic powder and 1/2 teaspoon of water . Then mix thoroughly by hand . After patty-ing them to 1/4 inch thick patties , I grill for about 5-6 minutes per side , turning a quarter turn at 2-3 minutes . After removing from grill , I wrap in foil and let sit for 5-10 minutes . Voila !
If it grows a grey or pink mold around the edges , or a black mold , throw it out . That 's an undesirable mold . Those molds are n't usually dangerous , but they can make the cheese taste bad . With gorgonzola cheese specifically , the mold is injected in to the cheese via needle-like things , and then it grows veins from there . If a mold is a different color and it 's coming from somewhere other than the veins , that is probably not a good mold . See also <URL> . .
Butter melts at such a low temp that this would work . You would want as low a flame as you can . I would not recommend it , however . If you forget it the metal is thin enough to burn through and at least make a mess - worst case it will ignite the butter , atomize the aluminum which will unverifiably hasten the onset of Alzheimer 's , and burn your house to the ground . Butter melts at 90-95F . You can just leave the butter in the sun for a few minutes .
I 've always done it with my hands . Just do n't let it soak too long , it will still be in one piece and will be generally easy to handle .
I 'm going to take a wild guess at what 's happening , based on what I know of thermodynamics , ( but I could be wrong about the whole thing ) When a cakes and bread bakes , it bakes from the outside ... as it forms a crust , it can no longer rise . ( for yeast breads , this is why we slash the top , so it can get a little extra rise out of it ) With a cake , as the sides set , it 'll continue to rise in the middle , creating a domed top . With a metal tube pan , the heat from the outside of the pan conducts to the middle of the pan , so the middle will set shortly after the outside . ... With the silicone pan , you 've actually got an insulator ... the heat 's not going to conduct to the inside , so it 's going to be able to rise longer than around the inside -- basically , the domed cake , but you 've got something for it to stick to , so it does n't fall back down as it sets . As I do n't think the issue is distribution of the batter , I 'd recommend trying other techniques to reduce the domedness of the cake -- cook it at a lower temperature ( try 25F / 15C lower ) for a longer time . You ca n't remove the problem entirely , but you might be able to reduce it . I 'd also look at the instructions that might 've come with the pan -- it 's possible that they have reommendations on how to deal with the problem . ( and it 's possible that this might not be as significant a problem in convection ovens , but replacing your whole oven for a set of pans is kinda silly )
Disclaimer : I am not an expert on foams . I 've made a couple before , successfully , but never anything like a lobster bisque foam . So I would advise any casual readers to do their own fact-checking and try this on a small scale - at least until somebody can verify it . Now , onto the questions : I have Lecithin and Mono/diglyceride from a set . It says they 're both emulsifying agents . Which should I use ? What 's the difference ? First of all , what you want for a foam is a stabilizer , and <URL> . Personally , I have never heard of mono/diglyceride being used for a culinary foam . Some research suggests that it is actually an <URL> ! Stick to the lecithin . Note : For the sake of completeness , lecithin is also considered a <URL> , which means it facilitates the foaming itself in addition to stabilizing it . This is especially important when making foams out of things that do n't naturally foam , like teas or juices . What 's the appropriate ratio of emulsifying agent to liquid ? How does changing the ratio affect the foam ? <URL> suggests starting with a 0.6 % ratio , but most people ( myself included ) use a ratio of 1 % - in other words , 1 g of lecithin for every 100 mL of liquid . See <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . The ratio is not quite as sensitive as some other hydrocolloids where you need to measure out sub-grams , but it is still important ; too little and your foam wo n't hold at all ( seems to be what happened to you ) , too much and you 'll end up with soy-flavoured soap . Note : When making a foam out of something that does not naturally foam , such as juice , you may need to up the ratio as high as 2 % . Milk-based foams rely partially on the foaming ability of milk itself . Does temperature effect how the foam forms ? Sort of . Actually , if you 're making a milk-based foam then it 's pretty much the same as just <URL> - i.e. for a cappuccino . The only difference is that you 've added a stabilizing agent , so it will stay foamy . So basically you just need to keep it under 80 ° C or 175 ° F , otherwise it will burn . Lecithin can dissolve in cold water , so you really do n't need to be very precise , but anecdotally , it 's best if it 's slightly warmed , say around 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) . What consistency should my bisque be to make a good foam ? Does it need to be thin , or will it work thick ? You want a very thin consistency , close to the consistency of water , for the same reason that it 's better to use skim milk for frothing and egg whites for meringue . Generally speaking , it 's the proteins that are most active in creating culinary foams ; large amounts of fat ( such as in cream ) can interfere with the foaming action and also add weight , which is not at all what you want in a foam . I have n't made lobster bisque , but I believe it 's very thick and made with cream - not a good candidate for foams . I looked at <URL> which involves tomato paste , corn starch , and cream ; if making a foam I think I would substitute a thin tomato sauce or juice , reduce or eliminate the corn starch , and use skim milk instead of cream . Remember that you 're not trying to serve this bisque , you 're using it in a foam . What else should I know before trying to make this ? I do n't have a Vitamix , and maybe it can do a lot of cool things that one ca n't do with an ordinary blender , but nevertheless , I 've never heard of a culinary foam being made in an actual blender . A stick blender ( AKA hand blender , immersion blender ) is much more reliable for foaming .
In examining sponge cake recipes , I 've noticed that some call for adding the melted butter with the flour . Some call for adding it afterwards . The important thing is to fold in that butter in a way that preserves the network of bubbles that was created while whipping your eggs ( unsure if your recipe called for whipping whole eggs with sugar or yolks with sugar and egg whites separately , but both will be creating a bubble structure integral to letting your cake rise ) . <URL> mentions that folding in flour helps to preserve that network ( as long as you do n't overhandle ) . If you over handle while folding - and you may have tipped it over the line when adding butter - you will destroy that bubble network and your cake wo n't rise as you 'd like . It 's also possible to under-handle , which will result in only a thin layer of sponge on top with a thick buttery cake underneath .
It 's actually hard to hold when it 's almost all the way cooked - it 'll start getting gluey if you let it cool off , but could start scorching on the bottom if it 's not stirred , and get too runny if you keep adding stock . Mario Batali said that risotto is n't finicky in the middle - so you can cook it part way , cool it down ( I think he said he spread it on sheet pans to cool quickly ) , then you can add hot stock and cook it from that point , so you 've already got a 10 minute head start . I 've also been to a restaurant where it was only served on the hour and half-hour .
I recommend <URL> I have it and use it every week to make lemonade : It 's absolutely delicious . It 's all I drink , no more soda . Last week I made cherry juice . De-pitted the cherries and repeted the same steps as above . I 've also made carrot and beet juice , but they test very strong and work better when you mix them with other juices - orange juice for example . My experience with juicing grapefruit is not good . The juice comes out very bitter and tastes very strong . In general , to reduce the bitterness in citrus juices , peel the fruit first before adding it to the juicer . As in the lemonade example , I sometimes use the lemon peels to make <URL> , or keep a few in the fridge to garnish my coffee . If you have no use for them , they will at least make your garbage smell very good . Maintenance You need to clean the juicer after each use , which can be discouraging . If you have someone who lives with you , have them help . My husband peels and juices the lemons , I wash the juicer parts while he mixes the lemonade in the pitcher . It takes us about 15 minutes from start to finish . Experiment You can throw anything in the juicer as long as you remove large pits and cut it to a size that fits the opening . It will fit a whole lemon but you need to halve an apple . The juicer - at least the model I have - also comes with a recipe book . Not that I ever used it . I just use whatever I have left over and try to make something tasty .
Unless there is something seriously wrong with your stove , you should not have any negative effects from using it to make choux pastry . Simply melt the butter into the water over medium then adjust the temperature to high . The purpose of boiling the water and then cooking the pastry over low heat is to gelatinize the starches in the flour . Your recipe likely adds emphasis to the point of bringing the water to a boil quickly so that you do not simmer the water away . Doing so can have negative effects on the finished product because it will throw off the water : flour ratio and you will not be able to completely gelatinize the starches . If your stove heats up so slowly that you think this might be an issue , you can simply place a lid over the pot as you bring it to a boil , making sure to add back to the pot any condensed vapor on the inside of the lid .
Classic puff pastry absolutely needs a final resting and cooling time in the fridge before you use it for your croissants , palmiers , danishes ... Most recipes give a minimum rest of 30-60 minutes after the last " fold " , but overnight in the fridge is absolutely fine . I 'm not sure whether storing it for two days might have negative side effects , but up to one day is no problem at all .
Milk proteins , mostly . And some sugars that have been caramelized . This is an example of what one chef I know describes as " <URL> , " and is much like what happens when you sear a steak on the grill .
The key to this is really high heat and pan-fry in a single layer , very quickly . The goal is to get that nice brown caramelized surface and barely cook the interior and then get it out of the pan before it starts to seep water . Also , wait to season with salt until it comes out of the pan so it does n't draw out the water prematurely .
There are two ways to thicken gravy : simmer down Requires time , patience and a wide pot to get a large surface area for optimum evaporation . Simmering down results in very concentrated flavours ( including salt , so be careful with salting in the beginning ) . use a thickener This is often something starchy like flour or corn / potato starch that binds the liquid . Note that the flavours wo n't be as concentrated , sometimes even a bit dulled by the starch . So try your sauce and depending on the flavour level you have reached now , you should simmer longer , use starch or do both sequentially . ( If your guests are hungrily gnawing at the tablecloth already , whip out the starch , adjust the seasoning and serve asap ^_^ )
end question
start question
Is there a preferred tequila age for Strawberries Por Mi Amante ?
The <URL> : " use the 100 % agave stuff , and definitely go for the reposado -- you want something with a little age and character " . Paul Clarke quotes <URL> 's <URL> , which is non-specific , but Paul also uses Reposado . Blanco is likely to be a little too light and easily dominated by the strawberries , a good Añejo is probably overkill , so a decent Reposado fits the bill .
First off , try digestive biscuits . They 're really very similar cookies/crackers/biscuits , and it 's a common enough substitution that it 's even <URL> . <URL> implies that they 're called wheatmeal biscuits in Australia . sourd ' oh 's suggestion of particularly crunchy gingersnaps might work too , but you 'll also want to make sure they 're not too spicy ! ( Unfortunately , I do n't know about specific varieties since I 'm not Australian . )
Short summary : views on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Part of the difficulty with this question is the very definition of the word offal and what it implies . First , a little mini-history , taken partly from the Oxford English Dictionary . Offal is literally derived from off + fall , i.e. , that which " falls off " or is discarded during some sort of process ; the word entered English around the year 1400 . This sense is rare in modern English , but it still occurs in some manufacturing processes , e.g. , woodchips that are discarded from milling . In the 1400s , it was applied in the same sense to butchers , who initially included only those things which were cut off/out of the carcass and truly considered inedible or useless from a culinary perspective ( e.g. , the contents of the intestines , which would contain the animal 's waste and would rarely be consumed because of the potential for disease , parasites , etc. ) . Gradually , this definition expanded over the years to include elements that butchers might discard or separate from the primary " meat " ( i.e. , mostly muscle ) . As the OED defines it : The edible parts collectively which are cut off in preparing the carcass of an animal for food . In early use applied mainly to the entrails ; later extended to include the head , tail , and internal organs such as the heart , liver , etc. . Given that many of these " discarded " or separated items were not considered as desirable for eating , the word gradually acquired a negative connotation , which the OED first finds in 1581 : The parts of a slaughtered or dead animal considered unfit for human consumption ; decomposing flesh , carrion . The OED adds that this last sense is " Sometimes used contemptuously , " as in the first 1581 quotation that references " dirtie tripes and offalls . " In answering this question , there seems to be a conflict between two possible interpretations about the word offal : on the one hand , there 's the " offal " that 's discarded because it 's truly inedible or difficult to use in a culinary sense , but then there 's the " offal " that 's merely separated out because some people or some cultures find it repulsive . That latter " offal " is still generally used by somebody , whether it 's eaten by people who do n't find it repulsive ( and might even consider it a delicacy ) eaten by poor people who ca n't afford more desirable food ( as referenced in the question when oxtail was given to " laborers " ) ground up , processed , and disguised in processed foods given to animals to eat For a recent perspective , I quote from the book Offal : A Global History ( 2013 ) by Nina Edwards : What might the term " offal " include ? The Chambers Dictionary 's definition sounds a little less than enthusiastic : " waste or rejected parts esp . entrails , heart , liver , kidney , tongue etc. : anything worthless or unfit for use . " Other edible innards not specified here include connective tissue , bone marrow , lungs , spleen , sweetbreads , testicles , udders , tripe , heads and the features thereof ( brains , eyes , cheeks , snout or muzzle and ears ) , skin , tails , trotters , lard and blood . Offal is sometimes thought of as inner organs and viscera alone , but I include all edible exterior parts . Including all edible ( yet undesirable by some ) parts seems reasonable in the definition , given that even as early as 1660 the OED has a quotation lumping in sheep trotters with " offal . " But in some places the word carries a distinct connotation of " organ meat " specifically . In any case , as said at the beginning , the perspectives on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Most cultures have entire classes of animals that are considered inedible or repulsive , whether pork in Jewish or Islamic traditions or almost all insects in various Western cultures . The concept of " offal " is just an extension of communal dietary guidelines or preferences to the avoidance of specific parts of animals . It 's also important to note that there are various reasons for rejecting various foods . Sometimes foods have unusual textures or flavors , but just as often they are rejected because of the associations of specific body parts ( e.g. , feet or snouts or tails being " dirty , " tongues because of their associations with animal feeding , genitals or reproductive organs for puritanical reasons , etc. ) . Or , in some cases the food perhaps resembles actual animal " parts " too much for our modern culture that is often divorced from butchering : in the era of the chicken " nugget " ( or " boneless skinless chicken breast " ) and ground beef , an actual tongue or tail or ear tends to remind the eater that the food is not from some anonymous cut of " meat " but rather from an actual animal . In some of these cases , the actual meat may not have a flavor or texture very different from the rest of the animal , but some people still reject it on the basis of its appearance or kn
To make sweetened condensed milk : The best make-your-own version is to mix 1 cup of evaporated milk with 1-1/4 cups of sugar in a saucepan , heat and stir until the sugar is completely dissolved , and let cool . If you do n't have evaporated milk on hand either , you can make your own by slowly simmering any quantity of milk in a pan until it reduced by 60 % , and then adding the sugar . Source : <URL> Another recipe that sounds like a lot more work and uses powdered milk : <URL>
Please do not use a cooking wine . Those are awful . Pick a juice , any juice . I 'd say cranberry . You probably do n't want anything too sweet .
Donuts are a deep fried food . The texture of deep fried food is unique and can not be duplicated by other methods . If you bake doughnut dough , you will get small rolls , which will have a similar aroma , but not the same combination of moist , soft inside and fat-crispy outside . You could bake it , as with any other yeast dough , only nobody will recognize it as a donut . Assuming that you want to get actual donuts , you must fry them . And no matter what you do to them , the more oil you use to fry them , the better your donuts will turn out . The physics of deep frying include throwing pieces of food with a starchy surface ( potatoes , or breaded items , or dough pieces like donuts ) in oil at around 190 degrees Celsius . At this temperature , the outer surface of the dough/vegetable/breading crisps immediately , preventing from any oil getting into the item and any vapor getting out of the item . This only works when the oil in the vicinity of the fried item stays within a few degrees of the target temperature during the first ~ 30 seconds of the frying process . Which means that you need a stable temperature in your fryer . Now , thermodynamics tells us that , if you throw a 25 degrees piece of food into a puddle of 190 degrees hot oil , they will exchange warmth proportionally to their mass . So , if you want the oil to stay close to the correct temperature , the mass of the donut has to be very small in comparison to the mass of the oil -- which means that you need lots of oil . The options you have to do with less oil are all unsatisfactory from my point of view , you might decide to pick one of them . Put up with the quality reduction . Use less oil in the pan , maybe even shallow frying in oil up to the half of the donut only . The donuts will lose moisture and soak up grease . The less oil you use , the worse the grease soak will be . Also , you will use up more oil , because you will have to constantly add the amount soaked up by the already fried donuts . You may consider it well used instead of wasted , because you get to eat it , but from my point of view this is the worst option . Trade time for oil . You can use a small pot , and fry a single donut at a time . Frying 50 g donuts should go well with under 500 ml oil . You are still a bit constrained by the fact that the oil temperature will fluctuate more due to factors not related to the oil , but it should be manageable , if you have the patience . Note that if you place multiple donuts in the small pan , you are getting towards the first or third solution . Try to manage a stable temperature in a donut-crowded small pan by using a very hot setting and letting the oil get too hot before adding a new donut . This is a very complicated thing to manage , especially seeing that you are trying to not burn the other donuts in the pan at the same time . I do n't think I could manage it , and if I could , the oil would n't be worth the stress . There is also the extra energy to consider -- not as expensive as throwing out more oil , but probably worse from an environmental point of view . In the end , if you want good donuts , you have to use a pot/fryer where they can swim freely in oil . Any change you make to this setup reduces the quality of your donut , making it less donut-like .
I found a highly rated <URL> on food.com . I have n't personally tried it , but it 's highly rated on that site , and is ridiculously simple . 1 16 oz block of cream cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream Blend until smooth Try it and let us know ? :)
Since you love bacon , I strongly recommend getting a <URL> . That way , you can cook both bacon and sausage at the same time . I 'd slice the sausage to about 1/4 -1 / 2 " thick and lay them on the grill . Takes less than 10mins to cook both bacon and sausage , and you do n't have to flip either . Another good thing about the grill is that the slanted surface drains the grease .
How much is too much is a totally subjective thing . Yes , there is such a thing as too much , but where that point is will vary among tasters . There is no objective question here to answer . No one answer to the question will be " correct " . I really like vanilla , and I like flavors to be on the rich side , so I tend to be a bit heavy-handed with vanilla . A few ( very few ) times I have been surprised to have that heavy-handedness criticized . Why would they not like my amazing vanilla ice cream ? They experience vanilla differently than I do . What is ideal for me may be overdone , even cloying , to my neighbor . So , when it comes to various flavorings ( vanilla is just one of many ) , get to know your own " likes " and what your audience likes . After that , you can ignore what the recipe says and just do what feels right to you , knowing your audience and the potency of your ingredients as well .
The recipes that I have seen did n't have much sugar and it is universally in the dressing . The dressings are mayonnaise based and a small amount of sugar gives them another facet to their flavor . This dressing reminds me of a simple coleslaw dressing which will include the mayo and sugar as well as buttermilk and lemon . Because the sugar is in the dressing it will apply to all the layers equally so there is no particular layer that should be sweetened more than the others . Keep in mind that this salad is southern cuisine which tends to value flavor over nutrition . Sometimes to a fault , of course . The sugar serves no mechanical purpose . It will eventually pull some the liquid out of the vegetables but , as there is so little and the dressing is not mixed in , the effect would be negligible . If you prefer the salad to be less sweet and are not worried about authenticity feel free to leave the sugar out . Alternatively if you would like to throw authenticity to the wind altogether you could leave in the sugar and add buttermilk and lemon juice to the dressing and give the salad more of a coleslaw-like zing .
There is no problem at all doing this . At a restaurant where I worked , we would make up a couple pounds of butter worth of roux at a time . The main thing you want to do is use a pan with a lot of surface area , so it cooks evenly . A whisk will work fine . You do n't have to stir constantly , just frequently .
I give my coffee maker an internal cleanse with vinegar and water once a month to avoid scale build-up . I use 1/2 cup of white vinegar plus water to make a full pot , run that through my maker two or three times , and then run five or six pots of plain water through the maker until there is no longer any scent of the vinegar . I clean the pot and its basket and insert once a week in the dishwasher , and wipe down the case and heating element daily . I 've been using the same drip coffee maker ( with its glass , dishwasher-safe pot ) for about five years . On those occasions when I 've run out of white vinegar , I use a tablespoon of citric acid dissolved in the first few cleaning pots of water , and then run five or six pots of plain water through the maker . Citric acid is just as effective as white vinegar for descaling but does n't smell as strong ; it 's also inexpensive .
Coupling design matters more than material . If you make your coupling short and thin , concentrating all the force in a small area , it will strip even it 's metal . Conversely , a well-designed coupling is longer , so the strain is spread over a large area . I have a Cuisinart CSB-76 hand ( immersion ) blender , and it has handled ice numerous times without any problems . It has a plastic coupling , but it is a good 3 cm long to spread out the force over more material . If I recall correctly , the professional-grade Vitamix blender also uses a plastic coupling , but with careful engineering to prevent problems . It is now common to advertise kitchen appliances based on their motor 's power ( 700 watts in this case ) , but many of these appliances will have mechanical failures if called on to deliver that much power . I suspect that you 'd be better served to look for a lower-power blender from a reputable brand with good consumer reviews . I do n't think the professional-grade immersion blenders I 've used in restaurant kitchens are rated to more than 400 watts . Personally , I recommend the Cuisinart CSB-76 , and have never had a case where I needed more than its 200W .
I 've had the same problem once . The first substitute is <URL> . But they 're not easy to find either . The second one is using <URL> . Tamales will be done in the same time and you could eat the leaf if you want . I 've tried it once and it came out great . Here it 's a recipe for <URL> . Here it is a graphic <URL> . They are written in Spanish , let me know if you need a translator ;) PS . My mexican mother in law used to do it with chard .
The answer , quite simply , is no . Even advanced laboratories have difficulty making the determination for certain . This is also a complex problem that gets more difficult as various standards are used and then fail . Before 2000 , a common solution was to simply use microscopic analysis to look for pollen and and other vegetable matter . Since then , many honey processing plants have been developing increasingly advanced filtering techniques that will remove the characteristic markers ( deliberately or unintentionally ) . [ ** See detailed note below . ] Various chemical or basic physical markers also have proved insufficient , since the sugar composition of honey can be faked quite well with various sugar syrup blends . The accepted standard these days , as mentioned in the question , seems to be to use a mass spectrometer to determine the <URL> in a rather specific lab procedure . ( Obviously most people do n't have a mass spectrometer at home . ) The current procedure for this test was adopted after previous lab tests were shown to <URL> in some batches of honey . The isotope ratio method is the only one specifically listed in the FDA 's <URL> to determine the possibility of adulteration : FDA laboratories do not have the instrumental capability to analyze honey according to the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC International , AOAC Official Method 991.41 , which requires an isotope ratio mass spectrometer . Ironically , in order to avoid the previous false positives for the New Zealand honey mentioned above , the new testing process <URL> , a process which has also been used to hide the origin of honey and to confuse analysis : To eliminate a false positive C ( 4 ) sugar test for Manuka honey , prior removal of pollen and other insoluble material from the honey is necessary to ensure that only the pure protein is isolated . But even a refined isotopic methodology is flawed when it comes to detecting various types of adulteration , specifically beet sugar . As <URL> notes : [ Using isotope ratios from a mass spectrometer , ] adulteration using C4 sugar syrups ( HFCS and GS ) could be detected to a certain extent while adulteration of honey using C3 sugar syrups ( beet sugar ) could not be detected . Adulteration by using SS ( beet sugar ) still has a serious detection problem , especially in countries in which beet is used in manufacturing sugar . So , what 's the alternative ? Well , the other general method that could detect various adulterating components is <URL> ( DSC ) . <URL> gives a good summary of the process , which essentially looks at how a material behaves as it undergoes thermal changes . At certain temperatures when crystallization or something occurs , there will be excess heat absorbed or given off compared to at other temperatures . And at other points there will be minor changes in heat capacity ( i.e. , the amount of heat it takes to alter the temperature of a substance by a specific number of degrees ) . Honey , for example , displays a glass transition temperature ( Tg ) around -40 ° C ( -40 ° F ) near a certain point in crystallization . Other sugar syrups may not show this , but they may show changes at slightly higher temperatures ( still below freezing ) , due to water crystals freezing or thawing . ( Water is included in the sugar network in honey , so it does n't show the same characteristics . ) There are other thermal properties that can be measured at various temperatures . As <URL> summarizes in its conclusion : Used concomitantly with the second enthalpy of fusion ( occurring between 40 and 90 ° C ) , the glass transition temperature , Tg , is one of the most potentially useful parameters for characterizing honeys and syrups and for distinguishing between them . The Tg value , being strongly dependent on the amorphous phases of the sample , will respond to modification of the chemical composition and the implicit structural modification caused by the addition of exogenous material . Thus , adulteration of the honey will cause inevitable changes in both Tg and [ delta ] H2 values . Under laboratory conditions , adulterations by industrial sugar syrups can be detected from 5-10 % additions depending on the measured parameter . I would pay particular attention to this final sentence -- the differences can only be detected " under laboratory conditions " where precise temperatures and amounts of heat can be measured . To replicate such a test at home , you 'd need to be able to add a certain precise amount of heat to the honey at subzero temperatures , all the while keeping it isolated from other sources of temperature fluctuations and observing where the heating " stalls " briefly . Then , you 'd have to calibrate your homemade test against some known samples ( syrups , 100 % honey , etc. ) just to be sure you 're actually observing the same things as in the article cited here . You 'd need to confirm that by observing a more subtle difference in heat capacity changes that would occur in hot temperature ranges
If you 're buying bacon at the store , and trying to reduce the actual sodium in the product you 've just purchased - you 're out of luck . Like most things , you ca n't un-salt it . You can reduce the flavor , but in your case , the sodium is still there . Alternative options include : Buy reduced sodium bacon Make reduced sodium bacon Use less bacon , in order to reduce the total sodium intake .
There certainly is such a thing as pork stock , it 's made the same way as beef and chicken stock - by cooking down bones to extract the flavors . With beef you use beef bones , with pork you use pork bones . Supermarkets stock the products that make economic sense , they do n't carry items which wo n't move - especially if they have a very limited shelf life . Beef , chicken and vegetable stocks are the most widely used ones in many parts of the world , so they will carry those as they have a good chance to be sold . Pork , lamb , and fish stocks can be found in supermarkets in areas where enough of the customer base will buy it . If you ca n't find it in your local supermarket then there may be specialty stores ( online or bricks and mortar ) which you could get it from . Butchers may carry it as well . If not then making stock is very simple , all you need is some bones , vegetables , a heat source and some time .
Yes , actually , there are two magic ingredients : <URL> and <URL> . Guar gum is a thickener , but in small quantities can also prevent the growth of ice crystals which would cause the ice cream to harden into icicles . Xanthan gum is a stabilizer which helps keep air ( called overrun ) in the mixture . Air is generally churned into ice cream by ice cream machines , but it wo n't stay that way without the stabilizer .
When you find cheap lemons , buy a lot . Squeeze half a lemon in each of the cavities of an ice tray . Freeze . Within a day , remove the frozen slivers from the tray to a ziploc bag in the freezer . You now have measured units of fresh lemon juice you may use for cooking and will keep for months . The frozen lemons are a bit less acid than fresh juice , but full of flavor . You can do the same with limes .
The visible mold that you can see is the fruiting body of the mold , that is the moldy-equivalent to the apple ; much of the mold penetrates into its food substrate like the roots of a tree . Since strawberries are fairly porous , the entire fruit is almost certainly full of the mold , even though it is not visible . You should discard the strawberries .
end question
start question
How to tell the proper amount of oil to use when sautéing vegetables and meat ?
I would do it the other way round , I 'd fry the sausages first , then add the veg . This has a few benefits as I see it : - The sausages will brown more evenly , purely aesthetic but some people will think they are not cooked if they are not brown . You 'll get the oil out of the sausages so you 'll have a better idea of how much oil to add when you add the veg , if any . The veg will sweat down in the sausage oil which is likely to be much nicer than the other oil You can cook the sausages on a really low heat to start with so that they really get sticky and caramelised , then when you add the veg back in you can add a spoon of water/vinegar/stock to deglaze the pan an get that lovely sticky sausage goodness all over your veggies , which will be delicious . You could optionally take the cooked sausages out of the pan and do the veg separately , or keep 'em in there , I 'd probably take them out so I could turn the heat up a bit without having to worry about the sausages . I 'd say that when you do add the veg you want a thin ( 1mm ish ) layer of oil in the pan . Depending on the pan this is probably a tables spoon or 2 . You probably do n't need to scale up as if you are cooking a bigger batch you will probably use a bigger pan , and so a similar depth of oil should suffice . If you are using the same pan , but with a deeper amount of veg , then I would add a little more , but I would make the depth of oil in the pan proportional to the depth of veggies . Remember the golden rule . You can always add , you can never take away . And once the veg start to cook down and the volume decreases then the oil ratio will be higher , so start out with a little less than you think , just enough to coat the veg when tossed in it .
The yellow color could be just a sign of what it was fed . According to the USDA : THE COLOR OF POULTRY What is the usual color of raw poultry ? Raw poultry can vary from a bluish-white to yellow . All of these colors are normal and are a direct result of breed , exercise , age , and/or diet . Younger poultry has less fat under the skin , which can cause the bluish cast , and the yellow skin could be a result of marigolds in the feed . You could have an older chicken that had marigolds in what it was fed . On the flip side , I was always taught that if any meat smells bad , it is n't good to eat . If it was my chicken in the kitchen , I would take it back to the store or just throw it out . If you are still debating on if it is good to eat , you could always take it back to the store where you purchased it , or contact the <URL> .
Coconut oil is a saturated fat , which makes it solid at room temperature . Above room temperature , it behaves exactly like any other oil and has a very high smoke point . You do n't need to treat it in any special way . I personally just use a knife or spoon to dig a little bit out of the container . Coconut oil is considered to have a neutral flavour ( with the exception of some " virgin " coconut oils ) . It 's much weaker than , say , olive oil . You 'll most likely not be able to detect any coconut flavour from oil alone - you have to use something like creamed coconut ( a common ingredient in satays ) for that . P.S. Although it might appear to be similar to butter or margarine , keep in mind that it is actually a cooking oil , unlike butter which has milk solids that burn , or margarine which is hydrogenated to make it solid . Coconut oil is just barely solid and wo n't always work as a substitute for those other things .
They do change color , just not so obviously as normal bananas . There 's a slight greenish tint that disappears as they ripen , and the red becomes a bit deeper ( some people say purplish ) . They also get softer - including the skin getting more tender , just like yellow banana skin . Just think about how bananas feel when ripe , feel your red bananas , and ( perhaps with a tiny bit of trial and error ) you can figure it out .
Basically , it is that easy . But it is a costly endeaver . I have know chefs to make it with a pure olive oil or grape seed oil . Some heat it to 220 degrees or so but I have meet some that do n't . The ones that did n't made sure to pull the oxygen from the bottle with one of those wine vacuum savers . I have been told self made truffle oil will lose it truffle flavor due to most the flavor actually coming from an odorant . I have not personally made any so I ca n't speak from experience on how long it will hold . All the above being said . If I had the money to buy some truffle , I am not sure the best use for them would be to make truffle oil .
Gelatin is quite tolerant , but with a few restrictions : Never boil gelatine , because it looses it 's binding/gelling properties . Liquifying gelatine requires temperatures that feel " warm " to the touch , but not all recipes handle warm additions well - e.g. whipped cream . Cooling liquid gelatine for heat sensitive recipes should happen fairly quick , and so should incorporating the coolish gelatine to the other ingredients : Stir well or you end up with " gummy bear " - like lumps . So without knowing the details of your recipe I suggest using fairly warm water in the range of " warm bath water " or " comfortable for washing hands " but not at all " hot " . ( Note that I do n't give a precise temperature range on purpose . ) Hot tap water should suffice , but heating it on the stove is fine , too . Just use gentle heat and do n't let the gelatine rest on the bottom of the pot to avoid overheating . Depending on your next steps , you might want to stir the liquid gelatine until it 's barely warm to the touch or add a few spoonfulls of whatever cool mixture you are planning to bind , stir , then add to the rest . For warm other ingredients , extra cooling is not required , just mix and let set .
One way to modify the recipes ( but you wo n't get the smooth texture of the original recipes ) is to cut the onion and carrot a lot smaller than the original recipe ask for . You want to almost dice it . When you are frying the onion and carrot in the pan , do it for like 1-2 min rather than the whole 5 minutes . And finally you will need to cook it in the stock for much longer than the recipe asks . You want to bring the stock to a boil then let it simmer covered to allow the carrot to become really soft . Then use something with a big flat surface ( a large wooden spoon or something similar ) to help you mash the rest against the side of the stock pot . The results will come out a lot lumpier than the orginal recipes but some texture and " unblended " bits of carrot is actually pretty good in carrot soup .
First , I would suggest you buy a higher quality can opener . I have a Swing-A-Way that I inherited from my grandmother . I think it 's older than me . Second , do n't submerge the can opener in water every time you use it . I only full out wash it on the rare occasion I splash or drop something all over it . The rest of the time I just use my dishcloth to wipe the blade and handles clean and let it dry in the dish rack before putting it away .
I 'm going to assume that " country style ribs " are the ones where you cut them apart first before cooking ... I 'd wager a guess that everything is near bone , and a thermometer might have problems with this particular dish . If nothing else , as you ca n't insert it deeply enough into the thing you 're taking a measurement of , there might be enough conduction along the probe for the oven temperature to throw off the reading . Could you tell us how far the probe was in the meat ? I 'd assume anything less than about 1/3 the probe might be problematic , with 1/2 or more being better . ... All of that being said , are you sure it 's an issue with the placement of the probe , and not a problem with the probe itself ? I 've had a number of them go out over the years . I 've actually given up on them , and gone back to an instant read thermometer , as I 'm up to 4 of the bases ( can still use 'em as a timer ) , and no working probes . ( if anyone knows any brands that sell the replacement probes individually , or even better in multi-packs , I 'd be willing to go back to using them ) To calibrate -- mix some ice water , and put the probe in there . It should read 32F or 0C . ( if it even goes that low , not all do ) . Boil water , and read the temperature of it , and it should read near 100C or 212F ( possibly lower , if you 're above sea level ) . Compare it to another room thermometer after it 's been sitting for a bit ... they should read the same . Do n't try to put it into the oven directly ... you could melt the probe ... that 's how I lost the first one , so you ca n't try to compare it to your oven thermometer .
I understand the intent of the advice to always keep meat and vegetable preparation tools and areas separate is to establish a habit , to avoid the possibility of cross contamination in cases where you are not going to be cooking the vegetables as much or at all ; and similarly in a catering environment to be able to visibly demonstrate that working practices are such that cross contamination can not occur .
I 'm not sure how possible it is to give good and definitive advice on how to store fruits and vegetables generally . The best ways to store food will often depend on the specific kind of food and the purpose you intend for it . So take the following advice as more of hint , as it may be very bad advice for a specific fruit or vegetable . Generally speaking most kinds of vegetable store well in the fridge or on the shelf for few days uncut . How well they keep on the fridge or shelf after you cut them it depends a lot on the actual vegetable . For example , bell peppers seem to do OK in a bag in the fridge when cut , an onion is fine if you cover the cut side in plastic wrap , while a cut potato will dry out . You can freeze pretty much any vegetable , just check the frozen goods section of your grocery store , and safely store them frozen for years . While you probably would n't want to use them as a substitute for uncooked fresh vegetables ( eg . in a leafy salad ) , they can usually be cooked just like you would as if they were fresh . You may not even need to defrost them first , often you can just substitute frozen vegetables directly . Fruits for the most part a different matter . How best to store them , especially when cut , depends a lot on the particular fruit . Generally speaking after being cut most fruit needs to be used soon after or becomes useless for most purposes . You can freeze fruit and this will keep them from spoiling , but most fruit does n't hold up well in the freezer . For a lot of purposes , what you get when you defrost fruit is n't a good a substitute for fresh fruit . While most vegetables will have something at least resembling their original shape and texture after being frozen , many fruits end up like mush . Frozen fruits are mainly only useful for things like filings and jam . When freezing things , fruit or vegetables , always use an air-tight container . In the freezer air flow is your enemy . Foods exposed to the air will soon become freezer burnt . You 'll want to prepare the fruits and vegetables , removing skins , seeds and other inedible or undesirable parts , as doing so after freezing will be harder . You 'll also want to label them with their name and when you froze them . Since you can keep them for years , you can end up with a collection of mystery foods in your freezer if they 're not labelled . Two other possible alternative for longer term storage of fruits and vegetables are dehydration and canning . What you can do with the food after preserving them these ways is generally more limited than freezing . Dehydration often lets you eat the dried food as-is , while canning lets you preserve food in a already cooked form . You can also pickle many vegetables ( and some fruits ) but this essentially turns them into a different kind of food .
The proper way : 1 ) Put the <URL> into the gourd . 2 ) Put the mate in the gourd . 3 ) Invert , shake vigorously , revert . If possibe , make a small " mountain top " on the oposite side where the bombilla enters the mate tea . 4 ) Add a small amount of cold water ( this is n't necessary -- as I understand , this step helps to keep from burning the mate , which can also be accomplished by using water under 180 ℉ ~ 82 ℃ ) , wait for a few minutes , until the mate absorbs the water . 5 ) Add hot water , drink . 6 ) Repeat step 5 . Do n't move the bombilla while drinking , as this will cause you to stir up little bits . Inverting and shaking is n't necessary if the mate is of high quality ( low dust ) . You can make mate to low dust by putting it in a metal sieve and shaking . Save the dust and small leaves that fall out -- they can be used to brew mate in a coffee pot . It is also worth noting that you can brew mate in a coffee pot or a french press and achieve similar results , although the resulting beverage is n't quite the same as drinking from the bombilla . Also , the second most common way to prepare it is like plain tea : put some mate tea in a paper bag and steep with hot water for several minutes . This is called mate cocido ( cooked mate ) and is not uncommon to offer it to children .
Typically , you go for 1 tbsp flour , 1 tbsp butter for each cup of liquid . You may have to adjust slightly , but that 's a good starting point . After the quantity of roux , the next factor to thickening strength is cooking time . The longer you cook the roux , and consequently , how dark it gets , the less thick the final result will be for a given quantity of roux and liquid . For a white sauce ( i.e. Bechamel and Bechamel-based sauces ) you want the roux to stay more or less white . For a Gumbo , you cook it until it 's light brown ( sometimes called red ) .
This answer assumes the US-type of pancake . There are some pancake recipes with no egg at all . So the question is , what does the egg do in a pancake recipe ? It contributes soem fat and emulsifiers from the yolk , some water , and a bunch of protein ( mostly from the whites ) . This will add structure to the pancake , some eggy flavor and richness , and perhaps somewhat mitigate the danger of toughening the pancake through over mixing , by inhibiting gluten formation ( mostly due to the fat and lecithin from the yolk ) . However , as you have already discovered , the egg is not completely essential to the pancake , which basically a griddled quick bread , and can easily get all of the structure it needs from the gelatinization of the starch from the flour . Adding lots more eggs would start to move you into custard or quiche-like territory , where the product would have a lot more egg flavor , and start to take on a more scrambled-egg type texture depending on how far you go . You will get less flavor but more textural change from using just whites . If you love pancakes , I would make them with any pancake recipe you like , and enhance your protein intake from other food items . Personally , I love a scrambled egg , and they go great with pancakes . Edit : I see in your profile that you are in France . Since we also call French style crepes the same thing in English , I am thinking you probably do mean US style pancakes , so the above would apply . If you are thinking of crepes , they tend to be a touch eggier than pancakes to start with , which helps give them the structure to role or fold easily while still being so thin . I imagine that they could take a bit more egg still , with some change in texture and more egg flavor , but might start to stick to the pan more , as egg really likes to stick . At the extreme end , you would essentially have thin fried scrambled egg , which you can roll up with fillings , as some other cuisines do . Still , I am not an expert on crepes ; I have never made them myself . If that is what you are asking about , hopefully someone else can give you a more knowledgable answer .
Here are a couple reasons why ( for which I know ) oil is used on salads : Oil caries in fat soluble aromas ( often we use aromatic oils like olive oil , pumpkin seed oil , walnut oil , and so on , that are all very aromatic ) and balances out other components ( like vinegar or lime juice or some strong tasting veggies ) . it adheres to the surface of many leaves/vegetables better than water/vinegar ( cause it breaks into the waxy leaf cuticle ) , so the dressing coating gets evenly distributed over the salad , you can use another thicker substance that clings to the leafs ( like yoghurt ) for this purpose instead . in thicker vinaigrettes/dressings it serves as a thickener , as by mixing with vinegar it builds an emulsion ( like in aioli the oil usually represents the continuous phase of the traditional vinaigrette - water-in-oil emulsion , where many modern vinaigrettes reverse the ratio - oil-in-water emulsion , or use some other fats rather than oil ) . And as already noted , it is not necessary for salads , you can use just lime juice ( like in some thai salads ) , boiled dressing ( that is thickened with starch ) , stock reduction , fruit/vegetable purees , yoghurt dressings or something else that does not require oil ( e.g. I have made slightly pickled japanese salads that only required some vinegar and brine and the main aromas came from the veggies ) . Also , I found this to answer " What 's its effect on vegetables ? " : McGee , on Food &amp; Cooking says : Oil seeps through the waxy leaf cuticle and spreads into the leaf interior , where it displaces air and causes the leaf to darken and its structure to collapse .
Pink has to do with blood , which typically runs clear once it reaches a certain temperature . This is not a great rule of thumb for making delicious food . It 's particularly problematic with thighs , because they contain a vein that can remain red or pink well through the cooking process . This is less so if the chicken is washed or the veins cleaned . The key is temperature , not color . If you have a meat thermometer , aim for 165-170 ° F ( 74-77 ° C ) , keeping in mind that meat will continue cooking for 5-10 ° F ( 3-6 ° C ) once it 's pulled and allowed to rest for 5 minutes . If you do n't have a thermometer , aim for meat that is responsively tender but not too firm , opaque rather than transparent , and not slimy or gelatinous in texture . Thighs are a little more tolerant than breasts when it comes to drying out because they have more fat , but nothing is sadder than overcooked meat ( except maybe salmonella poisoning ) .
Well , as to the difference in taste , I suggest the best way to find out is to try both ( cooked , of course ) . If you have access to Cooks Illustrated ( as opposed to just watching the TV show on PBS ) , they have recipes for both roast chicken breast and roast thighs -- make both , and the flavor differences should be readily apparent . As far as cooking goes , chicken breast has very little fat and very little collagen . Typically , chicken breast is cooked to 165 ° F/74 ° C ( USDA recommendation for food safety ) , which is actually a little on the overdone side taste-wise . So various tricks like brining are needed to keep it juicy . Chicken thigh has more of both fat and collagen , which allows it to take a higher temperature without drying out . Cooking chicken thigh to 175 ° F/80 ° C is fairly common . It also is much more suited to slow cooking , which allows the collagen to convert to gelatin ( which gives a moist feel to the meat and also a nice flavor ) . In this particular case , checking two Cooks Illustrated recipes for orange-flavored chicken ( one <URL> , one <URL> ) they both note boneless , skinless breast may be substituted , but they prefer the flavor of thigh . So you can use either . Use whichever one you think tastes better .
First of all , with omelettes -- any sauteed eggs really -- I much prefer butter . And with omelettes , less than a teaspoon is sufficient ; swirl it around the pan until fully melted , then pour off the excess . In this case , you would be using the butter for flavour , not any specific physical properties . For scrambled , user rather more . Fried eggs are generally the only time I will use olive oil , and even then I will use a mix of olive oil ( for the heat ) and butter ( for that flavour which goes so well with eggs ) . In general I prefer to avoid sprays ( unless you are talking about a pump-action spray bottle which you fill yourself ) as there are propellants and such used in sprays to make them work . Personally I prefer to avoid multisyllabic synthetic chemicals in my food whenever possible . But if you must ... sprays are most useful when you need a very thin but even coating of oil . Omelettes are a good example , though honestly I can not think of another use in cookery where I would find a spray advantageous . In baking , however , sprays can be quite useful . Especially when baking tarts , pies , or cakes which call for the pan to be buttered and then floured . A quick spray makes things much simpler .
' You should n't eat mussels that do n't open ' is an unfounded myth . It was first mentioned in a book by the British food writer Jane Grigson in the 1970s and grew through repetition to the point that 90 % of cook books mentioned it in the 1990s . The fact is , mussels that do n't open after cooking are more likely to be safe than those that do . You should , however , be careful to remove any mussels that have opened before cooking , as they 'll be dead and likely to make you ill .
The kind of oil you use in baking is mostly a matter of personal preference . Any neutral oil ( no strong flavor ) will do . I suggest you use an oil that you keep around for another purpose , which is not too expensive . Some good candidates include : Canola oil Peanut oil ( refined , except for those with peanut allergies ) Generic " vegetable " oil Grapeseed oil is also excellent but tends to expensive . Oils you would want to avoid due to the fact that they bring more flavor which may not be what you want in baked goods include : Olive oil Sesame oil Unrefined oils of all sorts
end question
start question
Why do chocolate chips stay softer after being baked ?
Chocolate is in is most essential form made up of cocoa butter and cocoa solids . The chocolate you buy is tempered , the crystals in the cocoa butter are aligned and properly formed , this is what keeps it shiny and gives it a snap . When the chocolate melts , without tempering , in the cookie the crystals in the cocoa butter melt but do not form properly again , this means the chocolate becomes soft , dull and ' blooms ' fat which is where the cocoa butter rises to the surfaces forming a white layer ( this will disappear upon melting ) . Also in a cookie there will be a high proportion of fat and when the chocolate melts it combines with the fats ( in the butter ) and will create essentially pockets of chocolate glaze , which obviously does n't set hard .
<URL> by the guys over at <URL> ( and also a <URL> ) with almost everything you 'd ever want to know about chips . That first recipe is supposedly good even after they 've cooled off : Our standard fries are good even when cold . Another option is to cook a lot of chips but stop after their first frying and freeze them ; when you want to eat them , simply put the frozen chips into the fryer for the second frying . This also has added benefits : Freezing acts like partial dehydration . When the frozen fries are finished , they liberate water freely , leading to rapid dehydration and good crust formation with a porous interior . Pre-frozen fries are crunchier than fresh and stay crisper longer after they are fried , but they tend toward hollow fry .
Certainly yes . In fact , aged egg whites can whip better - sensitive applications like macarons will frequently prescribe holding the separated egg whites for a day or two before using .
Short answer : I 'd look at the ingredient list . If any sort of partially hydrogenated oil or random fats appear , they are the likely source . If not , I 'd look to see if the chocolate contains cow 's milk or butter ( sometimes labeled " milkfat " or " butter oil " on chocolate ingredients ) , since that may also be a small source of trans fat . Almost all oils/fats , even cocoa butter , will contain trace amounts of trans fat . Processing can affect amounts of trans fat too , since heating fats will cause large fat chains in molecules to move and sometimes convert to trans versions . More details : There are trace amounts of trans fat found in most oils . Labeling laws tend to make this issue confusing , as in the U.S. where <URL> allow nutritional labeling to state " 0 grams " when the amount per serving is less than 0.5 grams . ( In fact , that link implies that manufacturers are actually required to state " 0g " when the amount is less than 0.5 grams per serving , presumably rather than saying " 0.1 g " or whatever . I do n't know if that 's true . ) A decade or more ago , many foods ( including chocolate ) often contained significant amounts of partially hydrogenated oils ( often as high as 50 % trans fats by weight ) . Many US manufacturers have since dropped the usage of hydrogenated oils or lowered the amounts so that the serving size ends up under the 0.5 g threshold for reporting . Chocolate may still sometimes contain partially hydrogenated oils , which may be the source for trans fat in some brands . However , when you 're talking about amounts like 1g or less per 100g of chocolate , there are plenty of other possible sources . For example , cow 's milk contains small but not insignificant amounts of trans fats , as does butter ( about 5 % trans fat ) . This is true of all milk and meat from ruminants . You may not know it from many labels , because the serving size may fall below the reporting threshold , but it is there . Moreover , it 's important to note than " trans fat " is a very general chemical category . While the majority of added trans fats in processed foods are regarded as problematic , there are natural trans fats ( such as those found in milk ) which do not have the same effects on humans . One notable example is <URL> , naturally found in ruminant milk ( in both cis and trans fat forms ) , which some claim actually has beneficial effects . So when you see a trace amount of trans fat showing up from milk or butter as an ingredient , it may not have the same stigma as the " partially hydrogenated " types of trans fats . I would assume this may be one reason behind the FDA 's rule about trans fat labeling : putting tiny amounts of trans fat would show all of these random trans fats ( some of which are thought to be harmful , some perhaps even beneficial ) in all sorts of foods . The " bad " trans fats from partially hydrogenated oils were the main target of the regulation . ( Some countries only require labeling for trans fats which come from " artificial " or " industrial processed " ingredients . ) Again , the chemical composition of most oils/fats have some trace amounts of trans fats . ( See the table in <URL> from a chocolate manufacturer . ) Even cocoa butter has some tiny amount like 0.1 g of trans fat per 100g . That 's unlikely to be significant source of trans fat in a chocolate bar , but if you 're measuring tiny amounts ( as asked in the question ) , it 's a possible contributor to a fraction of a gram amount in a large chocolate bar .
The microwave caused heat which released oils from the coppa 's spice blend , including capsaicin .
Yes , it is normal for pulses to develop froth when soaked . I 've seen it at lower temperatures and shorter soaking times . They can feel slimy too . This is n't a sign of bacteria development in itself . Chickpeas , as well as other legumes , contain lots of saponins . Saponins are a type of detergent , and they form a foam when dissolved in water . An example is found in Saponin content of food plants and some prepared foods by D. Fenwick and D. Oakenfull , published in Journal of the science of food and agriculture , vol . 34-2 ( no free version available ) . Chickpeas , soy , lucerne , and other legumes all had significant amounts of saponin , 56 g/kg in the case of chickpeas . Note that soaking dissolves also lots of other molecules contained in the beans . Some recommend to soak and throw out the soaking water in order to remove the oligosaccharides contained in most legumes , because bacteria breaking down these indigestible sugars produce gases as a side product , which is felt as bloating . McGee reminds us that this soaking also dissolves many of the micronutrients contained in the beans , and advices against the practice . If the beans are soaked ( for shortening of cooking times ) , the soaked water should be used for cooking . If the eaters experience bloating , the beans should be cooked for a longer time , to give oligosaccharides time to break down under temperature . This was about the general case , but now a note on your current situation . The conditions of your chickpea soaking were risky . Your chickpeas can have developed bacteria independently of the froth . In temperate regions , soakers are n't a problem , because bacteria growth in them is not especially quick ( the 2 hours rule is made tight enough to cover things like meat , and a soaker does n't even have enough hydrated bacteria food initially ) . But I have noticed that food I would have had no problem with at 22 ° C goes bad in short time at 28 ° C . The relationship between bacteria growth and temperature is not linear , and with growing heat , bacteria growth can speed up a lot . So I do n't know if I would eat the peas - not because of the froth , but because of the conditions you had them in . I would recommend that you soak in the fridge next time - you do n't need any fermentation to take place , so the low temperatures are n't a problem .
AFAIK you need to heat the pan to let the oil oxidize and polymerize ¹ so that it will form a chemically protective and non-sticking coating . If you wash your cookware with soap you will have to do it every time . For that reason some people do n't wash cast iron at all and wipe it with a clean cloth or paper towel after using . ( Burned oil is apparently not very tasty to bacteria and fungi so your pan stays relatively clean and bug-free . ) From my personal experience , meat sticks to untreated cast iron like glue , but on a well-maintained thick iron pan it glides like on Teflon . __ ¹ I do n't know if it makes any chemical sense because all references to polymerized fats I could google up were in relation to reoiling ( seasoning ) .
You have misread the Wikipedia quote . It says ( emphasis added ) : Kale freezes well and actually tastes sweeter and more flavourful after being exposed to a frost . While not terribly well written ( since there is the red herring that it freezes well ) , this does n't mean that the harvested plant was frozen , but rather that the live plant in the ground was exposed to frost . This causes it to begin converting starches to sugars in preparation for winter , giving it a sweeter taste . Per <URL> , for example : Frost enhances the flavor . Some of the tastiest kale is harvested under a foot of snow ! Never harvest kale until after a hard frost or two . A few freezing nights make all the difference in flavor as the kale plants need a hard frost to transform their starches into natural sugars .
Basic Physics of the System Bread rises ( as you probably know ) due to microorganisms , primarily yeast , converting sugars into CO ₂ + byproducts . The CO ₂ forms bubbles , stretching the gluten in the flour . In order for the bread to rise , the microorganisms must produce CO ₂ faster than it can escape from the dough . Graphed over time , the amount of CO ₂ produced would start at 0 , fairly quickly rise to its maximum ( as the yeast , etc. come back from dormancy ) , then slowly decrease , eventually to 0 ( as they run out of food and/or are overwhelmed by byproducts such as alcohol ) . The amount of gas escaping from the dough also changes over time . It must obviously start at 0 , and probably increases over time ( after all , there is more to escape ) , and eventually of course its all escaped and thus it must be 0 again , but I 'm not sure of its exact shape . So , a diagram : That 's the basic physics of the system . At some point , the bread must fall . ( Well , maybe in a 0-g environment it would shrink instead of fall , but ... ) How the Environment Matters The microorganisms are very sensitive to fairly small changes in their environment . In particular : Temperature . If your kitchen is 70 ° F and the author 's is 80 ° F , it could easily take twice as long . The lower the temperature , the slow the microorganisms go ( up to a point , once it gets too hot , they 're not happy either ) . Hydration . If your bread dough is lower hydration ( drier ) than the author 's , it 'll be slowed down again . The recipe is written in volume measures ( cups ) , as you know flour packs down . That leads to huge variations in how two different people measure it . Make sure to measure it how the author says to ( hopefully it specified somewhere in the book ) . Scoop-and-sweep vs. sift-and-sweep can easily be 25 % different . Preferably , spend $ 25 on a kitchen scale , and do your baking by weight . Salinity . Salt slows down yeast . If you happened to substitute table salt for kosher salt , and still measured out 1 1/2 tablespoons , you 've used more salt than the author wanted . A fair bit more . Age of your yeast . If your yeast is old ( and sometimes the packets in the store have been sitting for ages ) , it may not have the same potency as a fresh packet would . It 'll probably take longer ( but as long as it rises , it 'll likely be fine ) The times in the book could just be nonsense . Authors and editors do sometimes make mistakes . Other times they 're in a rush , and just take a guess . " Yeah , it was about two hours ... " The book could just be wrong . Also , generally speaking , slower leads to better flavor . So its not a bad thing . Summary Give it longer . Provided you 've covered it in plastic ( so it does n't dry out ) , it 'll eventually fall . Keep in mind that " fall " does n't mean it 'll return to its original size , just that it 'll fall back from its maximum size . The " or flattens on top " comment in your book is a pretty accurate description of what it looks like . Normally , while its rising , there is a dome shape on top , with the center as the highest point . When it starts falling , that dome vanishes , and may even invert ( as in , the center will be the lowest point ) . I 've made preferments that take upwards of 20 hours to fall . It will eventually happen . And when it takes forever , it 'll probably taste better .
This does n't answer your question directly , but spices are only a small part of the picture . Below are some techniques to get more flavor in your soup . Longer Cooking Depending on the type of soup you 're making , you may just need more time . Some flavors just need more time to get out . This is especially true of meat and bones . It 's possible to make a ham and pea soup in an hour , but simmer that ham for 3 hours and it 's night and day . Rest overnight Many stews , chili , etc. seem taste " better " the next day . Give an overnight rest in the fridge a shot and see if the flavor improves . Add volatile flavors later There is a caveat to go along with longer cooking . Some items work over long cooking times , while others lose flavor . In addition to meat/bones , garlic , onion , bay leaves ( and others ) benefit . Many fresh herbs , pepper , vanilla , saffron ( and others ) lose their flavor from the heat . If you are cooking for a while , you might try adding some more volatile flavors later in the process . Add salt early Salt helps to extract flavors , so add it early on in the process . Do be judicious with it , however . Long cooking tends to concentrate flavors , so you can easily make it too salty . Sweat vegetables / brown meat Before getting any water involved , sweat your onions , celery , peppers , mushrooms , or whatever vegetables or playing in this game . Likewise , brown your meat . The maillard reaction is necessary for developing great flavor from the meat .
The tangzhong is composed mainly of gelated starches . According to Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " During the baking of bread and cakes , the starch granules absorb water , swell , and set to form the rigid bulk of the walls that surround the bubbles of carbon dioxide . At the same time their swollen rigidity stops the expansion of the bubbles and so forces the water vapor inside to pop the bubbles and escape , turning the foam of separate bubbles into a continuous spongy network of connected holes . If this did n't happen , then at the end of baking the cool - ing water vapor would contract and cause the bread or cake to collapse . In the Tangzhong , the starches are already swollen before mixing begins . This means that they do not need to compete with the proteins to absorb water as the completed dough warms up in the oven . As you mix the ingredients the plump starches perforate the gluten-water sheets . As McGee mentioned , these starch granules ' rigidity accounts for the spongy , close structure of the tangzhong crumb , dough with less perforated gluten mesh forms larger bubbles and a more open crumb . The gluten in the flour used in the tangzhong is denatured by the process before it can form into an extensive network . However , since the tangzhong accounts for only a small portion of the total flour used , there is plenty of gluten left to maintain structure during rise and oven spring until the starch structure sets . Other resources : <URL>
It is a common misconception that the shelf life of a cooked food ( = mix of ingredients ) is the same as the shelf life of the shortest-lived ingredient . I can not stress enough how wrong this assumption is . As with any cooked food , the shelf life of hot chocolate should be about 3 to 5 days in the fridge , with a cumulative stay in the danger zone of no longer than 2 hours . An explanation of why the assumption is wrong : Food spoils when bacteria ( or sometimes other organisms like mold ) create a colony in it . For this to happen , the food has to offer all the conditions an organism needs for survival . Most cooked foods are nutritious enough to ensure the survival of simple organisms . There are single ingredients which hold for longer . Bar chocolate is a good example . The reason for that is that they are not a complete medium . Chocolate does not have enough moisture for bacteria to grow in it . But as soon as you mix any ingredient with something else , you can not know if the other ingredients have not added the factor the bacteria have been missing . So , if you mix for example water ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no calories ) and flour ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no moisture ) , you get dough , which will have large bacterial colonies within 3 days . Exceptions in the other direction ( food that spoils sooner than 3 days ) are foods which decompose on their own . For example fish - it goes bad quickly even at fridge temperature , but the reason is the fish 's own enzymes , not bacteria . That 's why it is normally held on ice , if not frozen outright . As a side note , you can not rely on the expiration date of milk anyway . It is OK for traditionally pasteurized milk . But the expiration date of ESL and UHT milk is only valid as long as the packaging has not been broken . Once you open it , it is again good for about 5 days . Conclusion : For anything cooked , up to 5 days in the fridge is a good assumption . Make it less for food which is known for high risk of contamination ( e.g. food containing raw eggs ) , but never longer , even if the expiration date of the ingredients is longer than that .
Details on beef color changes can be found <URL> . Briefly : When beef is first cut ( or ground or whatever ) , it has a purplish hue , caused by deoxymyoglobin , a pigment that can only exist in the absence of oxygen . When exposed to oxygen , a chemical reaction occurs , producing oxymyoglobin , which leads to the bright cherry red color most people associate with " fresh meat . " Eventually , the molecule oxydizes , producing metmyoglobin , which can no longer bind oxygen -- and this turns the meat brown . ( There are natural enzymes present which can convert back to oxymyoglobin when in the presence of sufficient oxygen , though these will eventually be depleted . Packaging can preserve the strong oxygen-rich environment for longer , which is why grocery store meat stays bright red on the surface . ) When meat is cooked , the globin denatures and forms a tan/gray hemichrome pigment which can no longer convert back to the other myoglobin pigments . Anyhow , this is all a preface to explain that certain chemical additives will change the chemistry here , pushing the reactions to move to or away from certain pigment states . The primary one that you mentioned is salt . As discussed in the linked article : If salt has been incorporated into patties or is present in the case of enhanced steaks , salt decreases metmyoglobin reducing activity allowing more MMb to accumulate [ i.e. , turning brown ] ... In addition , salt promotes heat denaturation , or breakdown , of myoglobin [ i.e. , turning tan or gray ] . Basically , salt causes the pigmentation molecules to convert faster to states resembling old or cooked meat , causing the color change you see .
Just omit the mustard . In just about every recipe I have seen for beans , it is proportionally a very small component . And while we tend to think of mustard as being bold in flavor , it 's really the vinegar that makes it seem that way . You should also stray from any recipes that call for store bought barbecue sauces , as many will contain mustard . Finally , one reason mustard appears as an ingredient in dishes like this is it is an emulsifier . You may wish to find a substitute emulsifier , making sure of course that your friend can handle it as an ingredient , to keep too much of the pork fat from separating in your mixture .
Sadly , baked potatoes are one of those foods that are only truly at their peak when first baked . Either re-baking them or microwaving them will give the least bad results for reheating . Your better bet , however , is to give them a new life , for example as potato pancakes , hash browns , as an ingredient in a hash , or similar application . While they wo n't have the same quality as a fresh baked potato , these can be very good dishes .
Coat the chocolate chips in flour ( whichever type of flour goes into your cake ) . Put a few ounces or two of flour and the chocolate chips into a zip-top bag , close tightly and shake . The coated chips will then adhere and tend to " float " in the batter . Subtract the amount flour used to coat the chips from the flour otherwise used in the recipe . You could do this with cocoa powder instead of flour .
Contrary to what several folks have said , garlic is not crushed primarily to help peel the skin . For example , garlic can be peeled easily with the clove intact , by cutting the small hard circular bottom of the clove ( the part that 's attached to the base , opposite to the pointy end ) . This will help loosen the skin , which should then come off very easily or will separate if you gently slide the blade of your knife in and loosen it . While it certainly is true that crushing helps separate the skin , making it easier to peel ( perhaps some folks might do it for that reason at home ) , that is n't the reason why professional cooks do it or the reason why recipes suggest it . Why crush garlic ? Garlic is primarily crushed to release its oils , which in turn infuses subtly different flavours to the dish than if you did n't crush . <URL> above explains the chemical reaction : ... within the garlic cells are alliin and alliinase , which when combined , form allicin , which is the ' strong ' flavor ... You might also find <URL> from the Washington Post , where the author talks about the art of cooking with crushed garlic in Italian restaurants , a really good read . Specifically , the author addresses some of these key points which are very relevant here . 1 . Crushed vs. Minced From basic physics , something that is broken up into several tiny bits has a much larger total surface area than the whole intact piece . Since the oils extrude from the cut surface , it stands to reason that minced garlic will release them sooner and readily , often leading to a more pungent taste than desired . In addition , minced garlic can be quite temperamental and you might often end up over cooking/burning . As the author notes : In its customary minced or chopped form , garlic can impart a pungent flavor that is difficult to harness . Add it too early to a sauté or stew and garlic burns and becomes acrid . Add it in the latter stages of cooking and the garlic steams or boils , leaving it raw-tasting and unpleasant . On the other hand , slightly crushed garlic is more versatile and heat tolerant . Left whole and partially smashed ( just enough to release its powerful oils ) , garlic adapts to a range of high-heat techniques , cooking steadily and lending a mellow richness to a dish . 2 . Usage in dishes Crushed garlic is pretty standard in several Italian dishes . The advantage of having one or two large crushed pieces ( in addition to those mentioned above ) is that you can easily remove them from the dish once you 're satisfied with the aroma/taste of the dish . This can be extremely annoying to do with minced garlic . Some of the dishes that are enhanced by using crushed garlic are : In [ roasts , stews , quick meals and stir-fries ] , smashed garlic cloves are remarkably flexible , absorbing high heat and in turn giving off subtle but substantial flavor . What happens when you crush ? To answer why crushing garlic works , let me quote a bit from <URL> to the very popular question on <URL> ( since we all understand onions better ) : The enzymes and amino acids involved in producing the Onion Lachrymatory Factor ( seriously ! ) are normally contained in the cells , and only become a problem when released in volume . Using a sharper knife will avoid mangling cell walls , creating more clean separations between layers , and reducing the amount of enzymes released . Garlic , along with onions , shallots and leeks belong to the group of plants ( genus ) called <URL> and being very closely related , the above is more or less true . Indeed , it makes sense that if you want large volumes of oils/enzymes , you 'd do exactly the opposite of the above advice , which is to crush it and break all the cell walls ! This also aids in the mixing of the chemicals per Joe 's comment above . Note that although a large volume is " released " or ready to be released due to the crushed cell walls , they make their way to the dish slowly because of the smaller surface area .
There are a couple of reasons why ' resting ' meat is a good idea . First , as the meat cooks the muscle fibres contract , which forces the juices out . Letting the meat rest helps the muscle fibres relax so the juices are re-incorporated into the meat and not lost on the chopping board , which would happen if carved immediately . The second reason to let meat rest is to provide an evenness . Basically as the meat rests it continues to cook slightly and it allows the meat to gain an overall ' doneness '
Since you specified not wanting any equipment other than a campfire and a stick , the best I can do is add one more piece of equipment you should be able to find anywhere ( i.e. , not have to carry with you ) : a rock . If you put a flat-topped rock just to the edge of your campfire , you should be able to place a graham cracker and slab of chocolate on top of it . While you are toasting your marshmallow on the stick , the chocolate should start to melt . This technique wo n't produce totally melted chocolate ( unless you have a very large , very hot fire ) , but the chocolate should get a little melty without being so runny that none of it makes it into your mouth . This only works if you have thin Hershey bars or other chocolate in relatively thin pieces . Thick slabs wo n't soften all the way through with this type of indirect heat . And for those people concerned about dirt , bring some aluminum foil to act as a buffer between the rock/dirty stuff and your s ' more . Extraneous but related note : Your question got me thinking about ways to achieve melted chocolate with microwave s'mores ( a last resort if I 'm stuck inside with an electric oven or no oven at all ) , and I have an idea I 'll test out tonight . When I microwave s'mores , I usually microwave the bottom graham cracker , chocolate and marshmallow together , then top with the other graham cracker once the marshmallow gets gooey . The chocolate does n't really get melted that way , though , because marshmallows take almost no time at all to melt . I 'm wondering if pushing the chocolate inside the marshmallow before I stick it in the microwave might help the chocolate melt more . I will update once I 've had a chance to try this . Edit : I did n't really notice any difference between microwaving the chocolate inside the marshmallow v. underneath the marshmallow .
Chia seeds can be used without soaking , but they absorb a LOT of liquid and create a gel . If this is n't accounted for in your recipe , they could cause the finished product to have an odd texture . At the very least , I 'd add extra liquid to your batter and let it sit for a few minutes to check it 's consistency before you use it .
end question
start question
How should I clean my propane grill ?
When the grill has cooled completely ( after dinner ) : I take some kitchen paper or some newspaper and clean off as much as possible . I use a wire brush with a scraper to brush the grill , and scrape off any bits that are stuck on . I DO NOT re-oil , and the grill stays nice and greasy for the next usage . Before the snow of winter rolls around , I take it all apart , clean the plates with a BBQ cleaning foam and water , and the cover that goes over the burners gets a good scraping , then I wash and clean the frame . This way , the grill will last years of good use .
I have to admit that I have n't tried a lot of free-form jerky experiments so take what I say with a grain of salt . ( see what I did there ? ) Jerky is a double action meat preservation method . You soak the meat with way too much salt and then dehydrate it . Bacteria do n't stand a chance . As Alton says in that episode " Club med becomes club dead " . Not one of his best puns but it gets the point across . Salt ( or soy sauce , same thing ) is n't required for the drying process but it is important for long term preservation . I have seen recipes that try to reduce it but I would never leave it out altogether . I would expect a reduced salt recipe to not have the longevity that most jerky has - If stored in an air tight container it will last nearly forever . The non-salt ingredients do n't really matter as long as they wo n't oxidize or pick up bad flavors during dehydration . The type of sugar also does n't matter - although the recipes I prefer do n't include any . I honestly do n't know about viscosity - I would expect it to need enough liquid to carry the salt into the meat . That would take some experimenting . It is very important that there be as little fat as possible . The leaner the meat the better and do n't add any to the marinade . Fats will go rancid quite quickly when exposed to so much air . Lastly - I think I 've posted this recipe before as the answer to some other question but it bears repeating . This family recipe is my favorite by far and I use it as a starting point for any experimenting : Auntie Fern 's Beef Jerky 3 lbs . deer meat or beef , sliced thin 1 T salt 1 tsp garlic powder 1 tsp onion powder 1 T pepper ( I like coarse ground ) 1/4 c. soy sauce 1/3 c. Worcestershire sauce 1/3 c. liquid smoke ( hickory flavor ) Combine and marinade 12 hours . Drain . Dry .
Here 's what I do - it simulates the high direct heat and then lower , indirect to finish ( like on the real grill with multiple zones ) : Put the ' grill ' on the top rack ( make sure its not coated or non-stick , that it can take high heat ) . ( I do mean to put a pan under this to catch grease . ) Turn the oven to broil for a few minutes . Prep your chicken . Put it in the oven under the broiler for a few minutes ( I ca n't really give you a time here because it depends on thickness and other things ) , but you 're trying to promote that browning and a bit of char like the grill . * After its been in a few minutes and browned/charred somewhat , pull it out and quickly flip it and repeat . If your dish is n't fully cooked to your liking , move the item to the middle rack and turn the heat down some . Pull it out when finished and Rest the meat . Enjoy To be honest though , for indoor grilling - I usually preheat the oven to 400 , get some grill marks on a cast iron grill pan , and then finish in the oven . Its only when the volume is too much that I do the above method . Cast iron grill pan for a couple of servings has always been much less troublesome than the broiler which can bring items from tasty to ruined in record time for me . * Some people close the oven door here , some do n't - its the difference between if you just want to sear it or really start to cook it . I pretty nearly always close the door , but I 'm also the guy who always puts the lid back on the grill .
Agree with @Daniel that fillets can be done on the grill , but in my experience a tender fish like Tilapia will break up and fall through the grill . Unless you have a finely meshed grill and a lot of cooking experience I would avoid it . Tuna , swordfish , mahi-mahi and salmon steaks all work well on the grill . But this should not stop you from grilling Tilapia or any other tender fish , just put it on the grill whole ! For Tilapia I would do something like below . Make shallow slashes in the thickest parts of the flesh , coat with olive oil , season with your favorite spices , and then grill for 3 to 5 minutes max each side on a hot grill . You can mostly judge by sight . When it still looks like it needs another minute I always sacrifice my piece , take it off the grill , and pry off one of the thicker parts . If it 's still raw looking on the inside , let it and the others go for another 30 seconds on each side . Nothing better than perfectly cooked moist fish and nothing worse than dry overcooked fish and the difference between the two can be as little as 1 minute . Note : it might be obvious to many , but using a whole fish implies that you 've " cleaned " the fish first by removing it 's innards before any other preparation . If you really want to do fillets for a delicate fish on the grill then just coat them in oil , and wrap in tinfoil with a slice of lemon or whatever you prefer . Again , sacrifice a piece to check for doneness . Tinfoil will not magically keep the fish moist if you overcook it . Using foil you wo n't get the flavor of the grill , but then again picking all the broken pieces of each fillet off the hot coals is a bit too much grill flavor IMHO .
A very fresh , ripe ear of corn will have a moist , green , unblemished husk ; when peeled back , its silk will also moist and clinging to the kernels . In the store , you may find that an ear of corn will have a slightly dried out husk , but if it 's still green and the kernels look plump when the husk is pulled back , that ear 's fine . Ignore any husks that are very dry with rotten-looking , off-smelling silk tops .
A stiff brush and a set out in bright sun is about all I 've felt the need to do with mine . Normally I 'll just tap out any extra flour . If I 've got a dough that sticks ( like last night when I did n't flour enough ) , then I just take a stiff brush and get all the bits off . If they do get a bit wet , dry them with a towel and then in a warm oven . If I think there 's been enough moisture to be concerned about something growing , I 'll set it in bright sun ( or my UV exposure box ) . Strong UV is a good inhibitor for much of that .
You may very well be able to make that system work for you , but in the two fine-dining restaurants I 've worked , the system is less paperwork-intensive and more common-sense . It is based on organized storage , adding new product where it will be used after the old , and labeling . This lets you see at a glance what you have and how old it is , rather than having to constantly maintain an up-to-date inventory list . It also makes it easy to find what you want . The system works like so : Organize your storage so food goes in the same spot every day . This way you can find see at a glance what you have and what you need . It also makes it easier to find things . New food of the same type goes behind the old stuff , and is n't opened until the old product is used up . This prevents you from discovering the dreaded Green Milk lurking at the back of the fridge . ALWAYS label prepared food with the date , using masking tape and a permanent marker . Make sure the label ( or container 's expiration date ) is toward the front . You do n't want to have to sniff-test old food . Trust me . Store in clear containers , so you see how much is left . Inventory perishable foods before purchasing more . Toss spoiled or questionable food promptly . This prevents " unpleasant surprises , " and avoids contaminating nearby stuff . Cool food as fast as possible , to prevent bacterial growth . Hot water holds a lot of heat , so it gets pre-chilled in an ice water bath ; otherwise it can stay warm and breed bacteria for HOURS . Containers can be left open for an hour or two in the fridge to cool contents faster . At home , I use a very similar system , with a few modifications : Pre-packaged containers get labelled with an opened-on date , because usually this determines when they spoil more than the expiration date . Expiration dates are just rough estimates . <URL> provides more detailed information , but I do n't refrigerate any kind of leftover more than a week . High-protein foods , or things with egg in them get less time . If it smells even a little off , it 's probably unsafe , with the exception of milk and produce . They will only make you WISH they could kill you . Only buy produce you can use before the next grocery run ... unless it 's really cheap and can be used up easily . Yes , fresh tomatoes are amazing to cook with . They 're slightly less awesome when half of your 5 pounds spoil , unused . Do n't buy fresh meat or fish without a specific meal plan , or at least a schedule for use . This prevents these expensive , perishable foods from sitting in the fridge and spoiling . This does n't have to be a detailed day-by-day meal plan , but the minute you take to think before buying prevents impulse buys and helps make sure you 'll have the time and ingredients to cook the food before it goes bad . I know the last point can be difficult , but remember that a meal plan might be no more than " make myself a nice steak over the weekend . " The idea is to avoid buying meat on Sunday that you wo n't have time to cook until next Friday . If you have to , buy meat right before cooking a nice meal ; at least then it will be fresh . Freezing is also a good backup plan , but only if done fairly early .
Short version : If it 's only overnight , and you seal the containers reasonably well , you 'll be okay prepping any of those ingredients ahead of time and storing them in the refrigerator overnight . I often leave onions in the fridge when preparing a recipe that calls for only half an onion , or if I 've decided to use less than I prepped , or if I 'm making a salsa and I chop the onions before realizing I do n't have as many tomatoes as I thought , etc. . If you do n't cover them they will dry out a bit , but overnight does n't do much harm ; I find if they 're tightly covered , whether in a glass bowl with plastic wrap or a sealed plastic storage container , they 're just as good the next day . The same goes for carrots and celery . I 'm sure there 's been a time when I prepped too much mirepoix ; but generally speaking , if you have a cut carrot or stalk of celery in the fridge , it does n't suffer too much overnight . More than a day and it starts to dry out ; the cut surface of the carrot will start to look like the end near the tops , and possibly split . The celery dries out more quickly , as it 's got higher water content and more fragile structure to begin with ; more than a day and it 'll lose its color , eventually turning limp and yellow , starting from the cut end . For the veggies , the way to keep them freshest is with a tight seal and as little air as possible . You could put them in a zipper bag and squeeze out any extra air but I think a reasonably-sized glass bowl , covered tightly with plastic wrap and placed in the fridge , is good enough for 12-24 hours . If you do n't have room in the fridge , you 'll probably still be okay , and they may even be less prone to drying out ( the air in your fridge is very low-humidity ; sometimes you have a special compartment for which the humidity can be adjusted , for fruits and vegetables ) . I have less experience prepping meat ahead of time , unless I 'm brining or marinading it ; in those situations , the meat 's covered by a liquid that contains preservatives ( salt , acid ) that help prevent it from spoiling , and it 's always refrigerated . Keeping it cool and minimizing the contact with air or contaminants is the main thing . If you only have enough room in the fridge to store some of your prepped ingredients , use it for the meat . In this case I 'd say a zipper bag with the air squeezed out is the clear way to go ; meat is malleable and you 'll be able to get nearly all of the air out , which means it 'll store almost as well as it did before you chopped it into pieces . The thing to remember about ground , chopped or cubed meat is that anything that contaminated the outside surface of the original cut is now mixed evenly throughout . This is why it 's generally safer to order a steak rare than it is to order a hamburger rare ; the center of the steak has n't been exposed to as much of its environment as the center of the burger , during handling and storage . So even if you refrigerate your prepped meat in a sealed container with the air evacuated , effectively storing it just as well as when it was in the original packaging and in one piece , I would n't expect it to keep the same effective " use by " date because it 's been disturbed and mixed and exposed to the environment of your prep area . You 're better off doing this with a cut that you purchased recently , which has n't been refrozen and is n't nearing expiration .
Put in a ziplock bag with a piece of paper towel to absorb moisture , and stick in the fridge . Also applies to lettuce .
Mike , I also have a pellet grill and we keep pellets in ours after we are done cooking but we also keep it covered and out of the weather . I think the wood pellets could absorb moisture and expand if they get wet and possibly plug your auger . :)
You certainly should season it , else cooking in it will make it rust . Also , your iron intake will rise rapidly if it 's not seasoned , which can become a problem if you 're eating too frequently from it . What Wikipedia is telling you is to not use reactive metal vessels ( cast iron or carbon steel ) for acidic dishes at all . Not to use them unseasoned .
You can put a cup/bowl of water ( you can also add some vinegar if you do n't mind the smell ) in there , heat it up to boiling , let the steam out . Then you should let it sit in the microwave without opening the door . Wait for a few minutes , open the microwave , and wipe off the inside . All that steam should have soften any stains or food pieces left in there . You may spray some natural cleaners or lemon/vinegar mixtures to wipe off the inside more .
Depending on the type of honing rod and the technique you use for honing , you will remove more or less metal from the blade . You can confirm whether your rod removes metal by wiping the blade on a white tea cloth after honing . If you see a grey residue on the cloth then metal has been removed and you can decide yourself whether you want that in your food . Types of Honing Rod Steel rods , of the type that are perfectly smooth will not remove noticeable amounts of steel from a blade . Polished honing rods are used for straightening a curled blade edge . Other types have shallow grooves cut down the length of the rod that bite into the blade and shave off metal particles . Ceramic rods are slightly abrasive and will remove small amounts of metal . Diamond coated rods are used for sharpening in place of a whetstone and will remove relatively large amounts of metal . What technique you use for honing depends on what you are trying to achieve . If you only need to realign the edge of a well maintained knife , then two or three swipes on both sides of the blade , maintaining light pressure should be sufficient . If you do this with a polished steel , then I would be surprised if you need to wipe the blade afterwards . If you use one of the other types of rod , then you are also removing metal from your knife and you may want to strop the knife and give it a quick wipe after .
Replace your ladle with an ice cream scoop . You will be able to control the amount of dough for each waffle much easier . For my waffle iron and scoop I use two scoops . An additional advantage over a ladle , is that the dough releases much easier from a scoop , which reduces the probability of making a mess .
Bleach is your best bet . Scrub it with a long-handled scrub brush and either liquid bleach or Ajax and water . Let it soak a bit before rinsing it out . Since it 's stainless steel , the bleach wo n't do it any harm and will kill off any organics growing on it . In my experience , the pink stuff is a mold , not flouride .
This is one of the reasons I hate working with liquid lecithin - it 's the most viscous and sticky substance I 've ever had in my kitchen ( or , frankly , anywhere ) . Prevention seems to be the best approach ; try not to let the lecithin directly touch any utensils or cooking surface . Grease up your spoons , preferably with something reasonably solid at room temperature like coconut oil , butter , or margarine . That makes the lecithin slide off more easily , and you only need to clean off the grease afterward ( i.e. with soap ) . The only way I 've been able to clean surfaces or utensils coated with the lecithin itself is lots and lots and lots of warm water and paper towels . Warm water is important since lecithin does not dissolve very well in cold water . Good luck - personally , on the infrequent occasion that I need lecithin these days , I just stick to the granules .
If the dishwasher and hand-scrubbing can not remove stains , professionals sometimes use a simple solution : we apply pure bleach directly to the board and scrub it in with a stiff-bristled plastic brush . Then we allow the bleach to sit for 5-10 minutes . At this time , most stains are gone or almost gone . Then we clean the board THOROUGHLY until no bleach smell remains . Usually it takes 2 cycles in a dishwasher or hand scrubbing and rinsing several times . This method is extremely fast and effective , particularly for troublesome vegetable stains ( beets , carrots , chopped herbs ) .
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
You can get extremely edible results , which is good enough for me . The smoke-ring may be lacking from a competition grade result , but the flavour will be fine . Presume you have a big-enough BBQ to have at least two burners . Only use the burner the meat is not on . If you have any prevailing wind and are not completely sheltered , make the hot side the upwind side . Either get a smoke-box , or do what I used to and use foil . Soak 1/3 to 1/2 your wood chips in water to slow them down . Foil worked just fine for me , made a pouch , put in the chips and poked the up-flat-side with a knife to make smoke holes . If you have a larger BBQ , consider adding in bricks or stones ( no river stone ! ) to help maintain even heat . By having less air and more thermal mass , you will do better . Let me meat come to room temperature before you put it on . Also no need to smoke right away , as the meat will not take it until it heats up further in the BBQ . Happy Eating
Restaurants quite often cook pigs cheeks ' sous vide ' , but unless you have , or fancy investing in a water bath , you can do things the old fashioned way . How you prepare the cheeks for cooking will , to some extent , depend on which part you 're cooking . If you 're going to cook the whole cheek , you really should think about soaking in a brine of sugar , salt , vinegar and spices for 24 to 48 hours . If you 're just cooking the ' pad ' that part can be skipped . The thing to remember with cheeks , is they are quite a fatty meat and the muscle fibres are very dense , so whichever method you choose , it 's going to take time . One classic method is braising the cheeks with a variety of vegetables and something slightly sweet and sharp as a counter for the fat and cook in the oven for 2 to 3 hours at around 180c ( 350f ) Basically dust the cheeks in a little flour and season , then brown in some olive oil . remove form the pan and lightly sauté your vegetables , use leeks , baby onions , carrots , apples , garlic etc. add the cheeks pack to the pan , add some stock or stock/cider mix and cook . You could also do this on the hob ( cooker top ) in a heavy bottomed pan , but cook for 4 hours on a low heat .
end question
start question
What variety of shrimp paste should I use for Brazilian Vatapa ?
Asian shrimp paste is fermented and very strong and salty -- I do n't think it 's going to give you the same kind of flavor as dried shrimp at all .
Your best bets are glass and stainless steel . There is no risk of corrosion with stainless steel , as opposed to aluminum or cast iron , which may react with acidic foods . Zip-type bags are also excellent for marinating , and disposable . You can use plastic like Tupperware , but there is some risk of staining . I would not choose wood , as the marinade may permeate into the grain of the wood , leaving stains and a permanent aroma .
Do n't take anything that costs much : You may have it taken away from you by border controls . In some parts of the world being able to confiscate nice things is a perk of the job . You want to enter ( or leave ) the country , you part with the knife . It could also be illegal to bring in knives over a certain size Hostels are famous for being rife with theft . Having some nice folding knife just begs for someone to take it Traveling is hard on equipment It does n't really matter anyway : who cares about the knife , anything will do . Ingredients and technique are what matters If I were you I 'd get a cheap , short cooking knife from some hardware store . Also make sure it looks like a cooking knife , you do n't want anything that could be mistaken for a weapon ! If you lose it , or it gets stolen , or broken , or you give it to someone who needs it more than you do then you just buy another cheap knife at a market somewhere . If you have an expensive piece of equipment it 's just another worry .
I am answering my own question with information I have gathered after doing some of my own research . Several hand mills claim to make peanut butter , but the mill that seems to have the best public following and reviews for flour making , the <URL> , does not claim to make peanut butter in their marketing literature . I contacted the manufacturer , and got this reply : We do not recommend doing nut butters in our mill . However , we are applying for patents on a nut butter attachment for the Country Living Mill that does a superlative job . . We hope to have it available by this Fall . We have noticed that other grain mills on the market claim nut grinding ability and even show butter coming out of their mills . We have purchased these mills and tested them and quickly realized that it was an arduous task at best to produce anything resembling nut butter ... we can do the same with out mill but feel that it is misleading and certainly unfair to make such claims . Hope this helps . Of course their answer has every reason to be biased , and not tell me if there is a good peanut butter hand press available on the market . Another popular press , the <URL> claims to make creamy peanut butter with their stainless steel burrs , and one Amazon <URL> agreed it was possible , but too messy to be worth the effort . Reviews of two different griners at <URL> seem to agree with the general consensus that hand-made peanut butter is n't the state of the art ( yet ) : The nuts would n't feed , so I had to mash them into tiny bits . At this point the bits began to feed into the grinding plates . Unfortunately , those bits never exited -- even when I loosened the grinding plates . The only peanut butter that I managed to produce was the goo stuck between the plates . -- <URL> And : My test with peanuts resulted in the grinding plates clogging almost immediately , and I produced only a few flecks of peanut butter during the five minutes of grinding . Many companies claim their handmills will grind nutbutters and oily seeds , but I 've yet to see one that was n't a miserable failure in actuality . -- <URL> I have not been able to find a single first-hand account of making peanut butter with a hand mill that said it was worth it . As already mentioned , the amazon review mentioned above said it was far too messy . Many other reviews I 've found have said the end result only vaguely resembled peanut butter -- and never creamy peanut butter . In an effort to directly answer the question at hand , though , the only feature I so far have been able to find that is required specifically for peanut butter is that the mill have steel burrs , as opposed to stone which are desirable for finely ground flour , as the stone will absorb oil from nuts , causing the system to clog . EDIT : I got an additional reply from the Country Living Grain Mill manufacturers , explaining ( in no great detail ) what is required for a nut-grinder : There are a number of factors such as the mill must reduce the nuts to a manageable size prior to grinding , and propel them with enough pressure to be squeezed out between appropriately designed grinding plates . It sounds simple , but the reality is that it 's a very tricky thing to manage .
This depends partially on the cooking technique and the shrimp variety/size ( = > thickness of the shell ) . If the shrimp is deep fried the shell can turn crispy and is super fun to eat . However , if boiled , the shells are chewy and extremely unpleasant - in this case you have to peel them . I am not familiar with the spicy garlic shrimp , but you can just try if the shell is crunchy , is pleasant to eat , and does not require excessive painful chewing - go for it , if not return to your old practice of pealing it and just licking the flavoring of the shells .
You should get a carbon steel wok with two short handles ( not one long handle ) . You want the steel to build up a patina of oxidized oils , which rules out stainless steel and aluminum and non-stick . You could conceivably get a cast-iron wok , but those are really heavy . You want the two small handles so you can pick up the wok , but you do n't want long handles that will dump hot oil or food everywhere if you bump them . Unlike a saute pan , you do n't toss the pan , you toss the food . ( Tossing the pan pulls it away from the flame , which is bad when stir-frying ! ) Your best bet is to go to an Asian grocery . You 'll be assured of getting a product at a good price . Should n't cost more than $ 25 , I do n't think . Oh , one other question is what sort of stove you have . If you have an electric stove , ( a ) I 'm sorry , and ( b ) you have to get a flat-bottomed wok . If you have a gas stove , you can either get a flat-bottomed wok or a round-bottomed wok , but the latter only if you get a wok ring that holds the pan just above the flame . You want as much heat going into that pan as you possibly can manage !
Compound butter is a very nice accompaniment for fish . " Compound butter is a mixture of softened butter and at least one other ingredient . Some ideas for compound butter are : herbs , spices , citrus zest/juice , honey , fresh mint , soft cheeses ( like goat ) , fresh or dried peppers , and nuts ... you get the idea -- this list could be endless ! " You can cook the fish on its own and then put the compound butter on top to melt over it . While soft the butter can be put into a piping bag and piped as rosettes and refrigerated until ready to use . Makes for a nice presentation . Another common accompaniment to fish is mango salso or a combination of tropical fruits ( mango pineapple for example ) . This seemed like a good link for ideas for sauces for Haddock : <URL>
Generally that sort of treatment is to get rid of any moisture the stone may have taken on during storage/handling -- if it were n't kept dry , there could be moisture deep in the stone that would not be an issue in normal home use . I would expect the instructions were also that you should put the stone in the cold oven then turn it on -- that would be the safest way to do the whole process , avoiding thermal shock , etc. . There might be some proprietary reason to do this also , but my vote goes to driving out deeply absorbed moisture .
Number 3 will give you the best results . There simply is nothing as great in this world as a latke crisp from the frying pan , having spent but a couple seconds on a paper towel receiving the blessing of a few flakes of good sea salt . I 've never tried number 2 . If you do , please report back . Number 1 will not give you crisp latkes . They will still have the delicious taste of homemade latkes , but they will be soft , not crunchy .
<URL> , using olive oil to fry is basically a waste of money . " After I 'd heated them , none of the olive oils had much olive flavor left . In fact , they did n't taste much different from the seed oils . " According to a <URL> I have access to , you could use high oleic sunflower oil for frying as it degrades better .
Using both is fine . I would reserve some of the green end to sprinkle on top for presentation . The white part is stronger so you may want to add it a little at a time .
The tradition has been to use the Blue Lake variety for canning and pickling , even though Kentucky Wonder is judged as having a fuller flavor . One has to be careful with Blue Lake , as it is being bread for easy mechanical harvesting , with less attention being paid to flavor , according to the <URL> . When I grow stuff , I buy my seeds from Burpee . The <URL> for snap peas ( what they are now calling string beans , as the string is gone in many varieties ) lists a stringless cross between Blue Lake and Kentucky . That would be my choice for a pickle . I would try to grow them slowly by not overwatering , as that increases the calcium content of the plant and how well the beans keep their texture submerged in a jar .
You can use small amounts of cheddar mixed with the other cheeses . But you 'd be disappointed in the results if you tried to use it as the main or only cheese on the pizza . Cheddar cheese does n't tolerate sustained , high heat as well as some other cheeses . It can scorch , which tastes and smells bad , and/or the fats can separate from the solids as a yellowish oil . The sharper the cheese is , the less well it will tolerate heat .
It depends how you like your rice . Personally I like my fried rice to have a few sticky lumps through it to add texture . Others may like it completely ' separated ' . It 's really up to you . I usually use a combination of long grain and Basmati . Another point is to make sure your rice is safe - it needs to be cooled relatively quickly , and kept cool , to prevent the growth of Bacillus cereus , which can cause serious ( no pun intended ) food poisoning . As it happens , fried rice is much better when cooked with cold rice and very hot oil anyway , so it 's a good idea to keep it cool in any case .
I grew up in a fishing village and making shrimp paste is one thing we do for a living . The good manufacturing practices we observe keep our shrimp paste in good condition for a year and a half . I do n't even put it in a refrigerator .
There are a few consideratons that I can think of : How durable the device is . Generally , this is going to mean that you want something metal &amp; heavy , but I 'd really look at reviews of any model that you plan to buy online , particularly from something like Amazon which lets you see those 1 star ratings , and you can see why people rated them so poorly . How it clamps down to the work surface . I do n't care how heavy it is , if it 's a hand-crank , it 's going to walk all over the place unless it 's well secured to your counter . If you do n't have a counter that 's got a lip that you can clamp to , and you do n't have a table that you 're willing to possibly mar from the clamps , you might have to look for something else ( or bolt/screw it down to a large board ) Size ( width ) of the feed . There are some that are larger , which might be useful for making some pastries as well as pasta . ( and then there 's dough sheeters , which are huge and expensive , but are 18 " or wider , typically ) . How many different thickneses the dial has , and what the min/max thickness is . Again , a thicker one can be used for other pastry applications , but it also makes it easier to work the ball through that first time . ( I 've only ever used one where the thickest size was a pain ... so it 's not a common problem . All I remember was it was a friend 's , and it was n't an Italian company ) Hand crank vs. motorized -- almost every hand crank roller can be converted ( as the handle detaches for storage , so the motor just connects there ) , but the difference in cost is significant . ( ~ $ 50 vs. ~ $ 150 . If you already have a Kitchen Aid stand mixer , they sell an roller kit , but it 's in that $ 150 range . ) Even if you got a motorized roller , I 'd look to make sure that the motor detaches and it had a hand crank ... as it lets you keep working should the motor go into thermal shutdown , but it also means typically means that the company sells the roller and motor individually should one part die down the road . ( you should try to verify that , though ) Accessories -- so , other than an add-on motor , the two main accessories you 'll see are cutters ( fettucini and something thinner are typical ) , and ravioli stuffers . Personally , I 'd say the raviolli stuffers are n't worth it . If you want consistently sized ones , get one of those little forms that you run a rolling pin over to cut , as the cleaning of the attachment ones means it 's not worth it unless you 're making a huge batch . ( which you can do , then freeze 'em , but I never have ) . I think the cutters are worth it ( and are typically included in even the $ 40-60 models ) if you 're going to make fettucini . For the thinner strand pastas , I actually prefer extrusion over rolling . ( although , I think capellini/angel hair may need to be rolled vs. extruded , but I 'm not a fan of that size of pasta ) . For wider noodles , it 's generally not a big deal to hand-cut 'em . As for the question on price ... not really . There are a few major price bands for the good motorized vs. non-motorized , and most stores keep 'em in those ranges . The really cheap ones are going to break , or jam , as they just have a lower build quality . If you see something much over $ 150 , I 'd question it . Unless it had an exceptionally wide roller ( and that was a feature you wanted ) , I ca n't think of a reason to shell out that much . I 'd try to stick with a model that I could find well reviewed ( with at least a dozen people having reviewed it if it 's purchaser-submitted vs. something like Consumer Reports or America 's Test Kitchen ) , and preferably , a model that 's been on the market for years , as there 's very little innovation -- a brand new model was likely made to trim costs , or because it 's something the company never made before ( and thus , untested ) .
In my experience at expensive tempura restaurants , sesame oil is almost always used at least as part of the blend , but my understanding is that it is not the roasted kind , which has far too low a smoke point . I 've been to a restaurant in Izu , now closed , where it was obvious because we were seated right in front of the fryer and the smell was quite noticeable , and the fancy place I went to in Tokyo was apparently using sesame oil as well , but they had more effective ventilation , so it was mostly obvious from the flavorfulness of the results . I 've seen unroasted sesame oil in middle-eastern markets and I know some companies sell it in the US , so it is obtainable , and I 've seen it at about $ 40/gallon on Amazon . I also know from experience that a blend of the roasted sesame oil and neutral , high-smoke-point oil will have a higher smoke point than just straight roasted sesame oil , and will add flavor , so it 's at least possible that some people do that . At home and at inexpensive restaurants , other vegetable oils are frequently used , and there 's a simple tempura set that you can buy as a gift pack that I 've seen used as a winter gift . This is usually cottonseed oil or a blend . In some regions , an ambiguous blend called " salad oil " is commonly used . It is not unheard of to use tea seed oil ( camellia ) , which is increasingly available in the US at Asian markets ( when I ran a specialty import business , I used to sell sell some that a Chinese tea importer was purchasing until he shifted his focus to larger packages suitable for restaurant use ) . The Japanese entry for tenpura on Wikipedia confirms that a custom blend of sesame , cottonseed and other oils is often used at tempura shops . The Tokyo style and Kansai style is a bit different , with many Tokyo shops serving a darker version thanks in part to sesame oil and egg , and Kansai region versions leaning a bit whiter thanks either to using neutral vegetable oils or lack of egg . I 've used canola oil but it tends to leave an unpleasant aroma in the air , especially after the second use . If I were in the US and on a budget , I 'd probably choose peanut oil , but it will taste different than most of what I 've seen in Japan . I doubt that I 've ever encountered peanut oil-fried tempura in Japan , though there 's a chance I just did n't notice . In practice , I 've found that the most important thing to get good results from homemade tempura is to prevent overloading the fryer , because the temperature will drop too quickly . This is true for other kinds of fried goods as well , but is far more important for tempura because the coating should be fairly thin . As an unpracticed amateur , I 've found that using a modest amount of katakuriko or cornstarch in the flour blend helps produce crisper results . It 's fairly difficult to get an assortment of different items to be ready at the same time , so consider making it in " courses " if you want flawless results , or make only one or two items at a time . Tempura restaurants tend to have wide , slightly shallow fryers , whereas most fryers meant for western deep-frying tend to have several stations of deep pots , since it 's ok in many cases for things to be submerged , like when making french fries . It 's quite unusual for tempura to be completely submerged . Edited to add : Assuming you 're coating with a batter ( there are some types that are dusted with flour or katakuriko rather than a full batter ) , I get far better results by keeping the batter ( or the flour ) very cold .
I suggest getting a quality stainless clad saute pan or saucier . For years I made risotto in the <URL> shown here : Unless you 're serving huge portions this is plenty of room for 6 servings of risotto . There are larger options available though , including a mammoth 14 " 6 quart one . This pan easily does 90 % of the work in my kitchen , so at any price it carries its weight in the kitchen . That said , this past Christmas I got the <URL> shown here : It 's a very close matchup , but this pan is perfect for making risotto . The higher sides are a definite benefit , but you do n't sacrifice much in flat surface area . The copper core is amazingly responsive , noticeably more so than aluminum . It 's obviously rather expensive , so if you 're uncomfortable spending that much on a pan I 'd suggest getting one of their regular 3 qt sauciers -- you 'll spend at least half as much . If I only had one pan in my kitchen though , I think I 'd still go back to the saute pan above . Its versatility is just unmatched . Regarding your concerns that a wider pan wo n't heat as evenly , this is generally true for a cheaper pan . However , All-Clad pans use magic to bond a layer of aluminum ( or copper ) between a layer of magnetic stainless ( exterior ) and 18/10 stainless ( interior ) . The end result is a very even heat which you can actually confirm with an infrared thermometer .
The original Buffalo Wings are made with <URL> . The original recipe is simply equal parts melted butter and hot sauce . However , you truly can use just about whatever hot sauce you want in even greater ratios if you want more kick . There are also some distributors that specialize in spicy wing sauces . I recommend <URL> if you are adventurous and enjoy a very nice kick of heat .
Consider what the " no cheating " version of the ingredient is , and get the closest thing to that , that 's convenient enough for you . For things like garlic , ginger , etc. , the " no-cheating " version is to get the fresh ingredients and crush/grate them - what you end up with is a paste . The paste you can buy in jars is this stuff , with preservatives added to make them last . Some flavour will be lost . To make powder , the paste is dried , and more flavour is lost . But the powder will keep for a long time in the cupboard . Note that some spices take on different , desirable flavours when processed . Paprika powder has its own properties when compared to fresh paprika peppers . You 'd use fresh ginger in many curries , powdered ginger in many cakes , candied ginger in some other sweet dishes . Recipes will specify what to use . For things like black pepper , cumin , turmeric , coriander seeds , the " no-cheating " version is to get whole seeds , roast them and grind them in a spice grinder or a pestle and mortar . So buying the ready-ground version is only one step away from the ideal . Try grinding your own at least once . The extra depth and complexity of flavour is striking . But for convenience , ready-ground spices are fine . " Roasting " , for small quantities of whole dry spice , involves briefly heating them on a hot dry pan . It brings out spice flavours you do n't get from just frying or boiling the spice . Of course , it 's optional . Ground spices have a shorter shelf life than whole dry spices . If you open a jar of powdered spice and it does n't have a strong aroma , throw it away -- you might as well use dust . Whole spices have the aroma " locked away " , to be released when you grind . To make a paste , these are sometimes mixed with wet ingredients ( like garlic and ginger ) , water and oil . That 's the basis of the jars of " spice mix " you can buy in supermarkets . It 's also the first step in many curry recipes -- grind your spices , mix with oil to make a paste , and gently fry before adding the onions .
end question
start question
How do cooks prepare belly pork in a restaurant ?
No trick . It 's par-cooked , cooled , and held cold until service . Then when it 's on order , you finish the cooking . That is true for most long-cooked dishes .
Being Filipino , I totally applaud you for such an excellent choice of an entree . The enemy of all fried food is moisture . Think of ... potato chips . Immediately after you fry , make sure you let the food cool at room temperature before packaging . I would store the lechon in a non air-tight container , like a KFC bucket/box with parchment paper . Paper bags are good options as well . After the food has substantially cooled , feel free to refrigerate . Do n't put your lechon in a sealed tupperware container while hot , as condensation from water evaporating from the meat while it is hot will often form and make your food soggy . Bring on the Mang Tomas and have at it .
Topside is quite a tough cut , so I 'd tend towards a longer cooking time ; as ' low and slow ' as possible , really . With other meats , escalopes are usually made using leaner cuts , like chicken breast or pork tenderloin , which would be cooked relatively quickly , so I 'm surprised your recipes call for topside .
Regarding your questions : 1 ) How can the bread be cut with the least amount of crumbles ? Traditionally migas de pastor ( shepherd 's migas ) were the result of rubbing a piece or very dry bread with a couple of rough hands . If you do n't rough hands , another way is rubbing 2 halves ( lengthways ) of a bread stick . This way the migas are all crumbs , but those are traditional migas . If you want to chop the bread and have dices of bread to fry : Traditional recipes call for dicing bread the day before you cook migas . I advise you to dice the bread ( size of normal dice would be fine , bigger would be ok too ) when the bread is still soft . Because , if bread is too dry can be even a bit dangerous to chop ... ( does it depend on the bread type , the time the bread has gone stale , should the bread be fresh or completely dry , etc ) Type of bread : Tradicional recipes call for breads such as chiabatta / candeal . These breads have a strong crust . Nowadays , breads like baguette or , if you 're living in Spain , the common " pistolas " are ok too ( and easier to chop / dice too ) . Time for bread going stale : it depends of the real quality of bread and your living location . Meaning : the more artisan the bread is , the longer time time would need to go stale . A common bread is normally not so good , so it really depends where you live . Regarding your location : If you live close to the sea , bread would go even softer , like chewing gum , do n't expect like stone-stale bread . If you live in a drier environment , it will get dry and stale in a couple of days . I would wait much time , because believe me it is really difficult to chop and dice when bread gets very dry . Therefore , experience is the key for every migas cook ! I know it 's not very exact , but that 's the way it is ... About purchasing the bread fresh or not : In Spain , in places where migas are a very common dish , you can find diced migas ready to fry in a normal supermarket . Outside these regions , you would only find normal " fresh " bread . How can you fry the bread in such a way that the outside is fried and the inside is moist ? ( is there an amount of water that can be measured , how hot should the pan be , which pan should be used , how much oil should be used ) Water and oil needed : Any spanish granny would say that there is no measure for this ... crazy , huh ? I found some recipes which call for 1 glass of water ( 250 ml ) per half bread stick . Some recipes say to wait 12 hours to moisture bread , some others do n't ... Oil : this is really your choice . I advise to cover the base of a frying pan with olive oil and some garlic cloves , when it is hot , add the diced bread and cover bread with oil . If you see oil has n't moisture all the bread in the pan , add some more , little by little . Greasy migas are not so good ... About the pan : it is better to use a pan like <URL> , not so deep not so flat either . Oh , and you did n't say anything about chorizo or panceta ( fresh bacon ) . Without them migas are not real ;) Fried them before adding to the migas . Hope this helps !!
A normal domestic oven never heats strong enough to produce a crisp crust . This is why pan searing is usually done : the direct heat transfer causes the maillard reaction which is impossible in the oven . As no setting in the oven will give you that , you are better off using lower temperature . It takes longer , but makes for a more even heating , which results in a better roast with a smaller heat-gradient-overdried part . If you want your browned surface , you will have to give it a good heat blast before/during/after the cooking . I agree that a pan sear will probably ruin the seasoning . If your oven has a grill , you can use it . It should n't matter if you start with the grilling and then roast to the end after the skin is good , or first roast it almoast ready and then grill it until the crust is OK . Any way , counting the time spent under heat will probably not be acurate enough with this technique . You can try it , but the error probability without an oven thermometer is quite high . The other possibility are open flames . A kitchen butan burner seems to be the tool of choice for sous-videers , who of course never get a crust in the cooker . But it will probably char the spices even more than the pan searing method . You could get creative and finish the outside of the meat on a charcoal grill . The reason nobody makes thick steaks and roasts on it is that they do n't cook through . With a preroasted meat , this wo n't be a problem . If all this sounds like too much trouble to go through for a simple roast , you can just roast it slowly and eat crustless . Just because a crust is traditional , it does n't mean it has to be there every time .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
I recommend ( and use ) a <URL> . Not only are they fairly tough and sharp , you can adjust the blade to the depth you need ( you do n't want to cut too deep ) . And the blades are cheap to replace ... As others have noted in the comments , be careful with this as you would with any knife : the blades may be small , but they 're quite sharp .
Yeah , maybe you just had some bitter turnips . It sounds like you did all the right things to hide the bitterness . If you want to try a different cooking method , I tend to like turnip boiled and mashed . If the turnip is old ( and likely bitter ) you can add an apple . I 've also read that you can stir in baking soda after the turnips have boiled to remove the bitterness . You would then need to rinse thoroughly . I 've never tried this however .
You 've answered your own question , it 's size and shape . You could buy a roast and slice it into chops and you 'd get the same thing as if the butcher does it . That 's if they are both pork sirloin , sometimes there can be confusion between sirloin and tenderloin , which are not the same thing .
You would use the flat bottom spoon as you would use a regular spoon . The main different between the flat-bottom spoon and western spoons is as you can see the flat bottom and the fact that the flat bottom spoons are usually bigger and can hold more liquid . I 'm not sure why it would be awkward to use it compared to a regular spoon . You do n't need to stick the whole spoon in your mouth . There is a rounded edge around the spoon before it is flat . You put just the rounded portion of the spoon into your mouth and drink from it . The reason for the larger spoon probably stems from the fact that many Asian soups have noodles and large chuncks of vegetables and meats in it . Using a western spoon , you would get some of the noodle or meat and have little room for the broth . But with the larger flat bottom spoon you can get the noodle , meat and still fit an appropriate amount of broth on the spoon . EDIT : Also note that it is common practice to use the flat bottom spoon and the chopsticks simulataneously while eating a bowl of noodle soup . One would use the chopsticks in their dominant hand ( right hand lets assume ) . They would then use their left hand to use the spoon . As you have probably experienced in your life unless you are ambidexterous , using the left hand to do thing you normally do with the right can be hard . With the flat bottom , there is less chance of spilling than with a traditional rounded spoon .
The most important thing is to check everything and then check it again . Test your recipes and figure out what can be done in advance without reducing the quality . You should have checklists of everything that needs to come with you ( food , cooking utensils , serving utensils , eating utensils , decoration , cleanup gear , etc. ) You must pre-scout the location and make sure you have thought through how your logistics are going to work - do you have the refrigerator and burner space you need , for example ? Think through how everything will be transported as well . Will you be able to keep everything at safe temperatures ? Make sure all containers are thoroughly sealed , and if there is any risk of spills , add a layer of masking tape . Bring extras of everything . Inevitably , something is going to spill or there will be more guests than anticipated . Then check everything again . Also , keep good records of what you made and what got eaten so you 'll be ready to do it next time .
Sometimes the outer leaves are a bit leathery ( especially if the quality is n't too god ) . When that 's the case I remove them first . Next , I remove the green stalks -- but Jefromi is right , the tiny leaves are delicious . The kernel in the middle near the base of the fennel bulb is very hard . I usually cut it out by halving the bulb along its length and making two incisions with a sharp knife on either side of the kernel . I chop the rest of the bulb so that it yields thin concentric slices .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
With a pork tenderloin : Season the meat , sear all sides in a very hot pan , and then finish in the oven at 350 ° F ( 175 ° C ) degrees until the internal temp . hits 145 ° F ( 63 ° C ) . Then let it sit for 10 minutes , and cut ' er up . If you need it done faster , a higher oven temp will accomplish this , but may compromise quality . But like I said , for a tenderloin , you do n't want too low , or too high . Just watch the internal temperature , that is the key .
I also liked home cooking and thought it would be a good idea to try it professionally , and here 's what I learned : The best way to learn to cook professionally is by getting an entry level job . This is what I did . People will hire you without experience if you seem humble , reliable , and willing to learn . Come in cocky or expecting a lot right in the door , and you 'll be ruled out . You should apply for a chain/fast food fry cook , or in fine dining , a prep cook or dishwasher . Culinary school can help speed this up , but you 'll be paying tuition to learn a job that starts out a little above minimum wage . In my mind , this is a really craptastic deal , although the schools make out like bandits . Once you get your first job , even if you 've done culinary school , you 'll be useless for a few months . Home cooking emphasizes creativity , but professional cooking is all about speed , efficiency , and consistency . Think of it as assembly-line cooking . Restaurants are the very definition of " School of Hard Knocks . " Be prepared for hazing and getting grief from the other staff . You 'll get your ass kicked for a while , and then slowly start to become useful . But once you get the hang of it , it can be an incredible rush ! If you 're a fast learner and can handle the environment , it 's possible to start out as a dishwasher and end up owning your own restaurant . It 's also very possible to end up a single , scarred alcoholic with an empty bank account . If this already describes you well , then you 'll fit in just fine . How well you do is entirely up to you and your abilities . The industry advice for anyone who says they want to become a chef is " Do n't do it ! " Go read Kitchen Confidential . Now imagine you 're responsible for managing that madness of drugs and mayhem , working 60 hours a week for a wage that barely touches middle class ! Still sound good to you ? There are 5 different skill-sets you 'll need to make it to head chef : Line cooking skills . You need to be able to manage your time to cook rapidly and reliably , with every dish turning out the same . Culinary school can help a bit with this , but experience is the real teacher . Stress management and calm . If you are n't the type to keep your cool in a crisis , you 'll never make it . Professional cooking is one of the most stressful jobs out there ; you will have nights where the dish machine breaks and a cook walks out , all before a busy weekend . In those situations , it 's up to you to figure out what to do . Management . You need to be able to earn the respect of a team of cooks , many of which will be " difficult personality types , " ranging from prima donnas to lazy assholes to hardened felons . The only way to learn this is experience . Business sense . The restaurant industry is a challenging business at best , with high rates of failure and slim profit margins . You need to be able to cut deals with suppliers , figure out how to promote your establishment and build business , and manage expenses . Creative cooking . You need to be able to come up with delectable specials to use up the 20 pounds of squash you got for a steal , or something special for a catered dessert . Buying a restaurant with no food service experience is a phenomenal way to get rid of excess money . Excess money , as in everything you have . On the other hand , starting from the bottom is a good way to see how you 'd do . To open a restaurant as chef/owner you 'll want a minimum of management &amp; business experience plus 3 years in multiple restaurant kitchens . That 's the minimum if you 're very talented and driven . Honestly , 5-10 years experience is a more reasonable expectation . If you try to do it without the experience ... well , <URL> . Even restaurants with experienced management and a solid business model can fail . I do n't want to crush your hopes and dreams , but this is something you really do n't want to jump into without trying it at a lower level . The Food Network makes a chef 's job seem glamorous , but what they do is just the opposite .
Thank you to everyone for your great advice . I ended up using a combination of everyone 's answers . I prepared the meatballs the night before and cooked them in the oven as per usual . I stored them overnight in the fridge in a large ice cream tub , rather than refrigerating the crock . ( Thanks for that tip Joe and MargeGunderson . ) In the morning , I combined everything in the crock pot and brought it to work . I started the crock pot on low at 8am . Everything was already cooked , so no need to worry there . The meatballs were heated through by noon . ( Thanks everyone for the tip on starting early . Thanks nico for the assurance on " mush " . ) Now , time for lunch !
A few things ... I brine for 12-24 hours . It really does make a difference . Do n't bother browning the meat ... you do n't want a crust , you want the meat to break down . Make your own barbecue sauce ! There 's a zillion recipes , and it always tastes better . When I make pulled pork , I take the cooking liquid ( you are cooking in liquid , yeah ? ) and reduce it right down to almost a demiglace , and use that as the base for my bbq sauce .
Doner kebab is A ) not a single joint of meat and B ) cooked in slices , so attempting to get anything similar with the technique you described is a triumph of optimism over reality I 'm afraid . As Gary suggests , lamb/mutton shoulder requires long , slow cooking , but this will not yield a doner-like result in terms of texture . I would rub the lamb with plenty of spices , cumin , coriander , garlic etc and olive oil . Make small cuts in the meat and really massage the spices in . Place the lamb in a roasting tin and cover with foil . Get the oven as hot as it will go , put the lamb in , and turn it down to 150C . Cook for 4 hours and the meat will fall off the bone . Pull to shreds and serve in pitta breads with yoghurt , salad , onions and chilli sauce . Voila !
The difference between sweet and tart cherries is not so much the sweet , but more the tart . If you look at the nutrition information you 'll find that tart cherries have about 2/3 as much sugar as sweet , but twice as much Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) which is what gives them their tart flavor . With this in mind , most sweet cherry pie recipes include lemon juice , while tart cherry pies recipes do n't need the lemon juice for balance . Recipes for both type seem to use between 1/2 to 1 1/2 cups of sugar , so as Stephie says , " It 's mostly a matter of taste " From personal experience - I made 2 cherry pies using a tart cherry pie recipe , except substituting Bing cherries . I got more great reviews for those pies than you would believe . ( It might have something to do with the sweet tooth gene on that side of the family )
end question
start question
Can I freeze my selfmade focaccia ?
You can freeze ( as < 0 ° C / 32 ° F ) bread and it will last longer . As @FuzzyChef answered , there 's even a whole <URL> . The main problem with taking a piece of bread at room temperature and freeze it , is that <URL> . That is <URL> ( as <URL> ) . So , one should try the bread to be at that temperature the least possible time ( maybe having small pieces of bread , or having a freezer at the lowest temperature as possible ) . The same applies when you defrost the bread . Luckly , that degelation is , up to a point , reversible : <URL> . So , better than letting warm up at room temperature , you can put it in an oven or a toaster . Side note 1 : remember to cut the focaccia before freezing it . Side note 2 : frozen bread industry <URL> .
You will have the best results if you prep by cutting and blanching prior to freezing . This should ensure that moisture content in the veggies does less damage over time in the freezer and improve color duration . I find it helpful to freeze vegetables separately rather than as mixes as you can always grab from multiple bags , but you ca n't unmix mixed vegetables without more work . The majority of vegetables for stir-fry ( e.g. broccoli , peas , etc ) will freeze well enough , the ones in your freezer aisle obviously freeze a bit better than others . If a vegetable has a high water content ( i.e. lettuce , which I hope you are n't stir-frying with ) that is more integral to its structure than the cellulose it is likelier to burst cell walls in freezing ; these vegetables are better to avoid .
I use a similar recipe , unfortunately I do n't remember the original source , but I 've changed over time anyway . Things I do n't use that you have in your recipe : Sugar Jack Daniels Cider Vinegar Worcestershire sauce mustard Things I do use : Lots of fresh ground spices . Typically 4 or 5 cloves , teaspoon of cumin seeds , tablespoon of fennel seeds , black pepper and salt . Fresh herbs , including Rosemary , Bay and thyme Balsamic vinegar - about half a bottle of inexpensive stuff Orange zest - zest of one whole orange Smoked Paprika - about 4 heaped teaspoons Olive oil - about 4 tablespoons grind-up the spices and place in the marinade tray . medium fine chop the fresh herbs ( leave the fresh bay leaves whole ) with the orange zest and a whole bulb of garlic , then add to the spice mixture . To that add juice from an orange , the Balsamic , followed by the ketchup and olive oil . Mix well . Score the meat well and add to the marinade tray . rub the marinade mixture into all the scores so that the meat is well penetrated . Cover the tray with foil and cook in an oven for about an hour ( depends on the meat and the amount ) once it 's out of the oven it can be placed on the barby .
I do n't see why not , it 's the same process Many commercial brewers make a barley and rye malt for beer ( < 10 % rye ) . A good brewers supply shop should have rye malt too Rye is around ~ 40 % carbohydrate , while barley is ~ 45 % carbohydrate , so rye is not as sweet , but has a more interesting taste ( IMHO ) The differences for making malt rye over malt barley , assuming you have hulled rye : Rye absorbs water faster , so steep for less time ( ~ 30 % less ) Do not let it go mushy or it will not germinate Rye is more fragile with no hull and a thin " skin " . So must be handled more carefully once steeped . If it is damaged it wont germinate Lower germination rate ( due to above ) , so less conversion , so less sugars and flavour Otherwise just follow the normal malt barley process , which is well documented
My <URL> just happened , and I have been able to propagate it by pouring the last few teaspoons from one bottle into the next ( after drinking half of the next bottle ) . It goes pretty slow using an open bottle ( too little circulation ) but it does go . I open the bottle every day or so and swish the contents around . It takes about 1 weak to even start smelling vinegary , and circa one month to really develop . I 've been sticking with the same variety of wine and not trying to diddle the sugar content . I still have not developed a mat-like mother , but there does seem to be a culture there . I 'm on the fourth generation now .
Worked fine for us ; we used to cottage with people who did n't want to shop very often , had lots of kids and a big freezer out back . We would buy lots of milk and freeze it just fine . Do let it defrost completely before trying to use it . We never noticed any separation , nor problems with expansion - do be aware of the container the milk is actually in , and if there is room in there for freezing to occur . FYI - this specific experience was in Canada , and milk up here comes in bags that we then place into a pitcher-like contraption to use . Your specific container may or may not have enough space .
It is not only sane , it is safer than any other packaging you can make . At least here in Germany , meat from the supermarket is not just wrapped in celophane , the celophane is glued to the tray . The packaging is air-proof . And the air inside the packaging is not normal air , it is a mostly sterile atmosphere with a composition different from normal air , which hampers bacterial growth ( I think it has lowered oxygen content , but I 'm not absolutely sure on that detail ) . This means that 1 . no bacterial contamination is possible after the meat has left the packaging plant , and 2 . the bacteria already present in the meat when it was packed grow slower than normal . So if this is your type of package , do yourself a favor and leave the meat in it . I have n't frozen such packages , so I do n't know how big a problem they have with freezer burn . But it may become a problem in the long term , as the moisture from the meat will sublimate on the inside of the celophane . If this is not the type of package you get , and you have just plain clingy film wrapped around meat and a styrofoam tray ( I 've seen other products wrapped this way , but not meat ) , there is still no problem to freeze in it . The pad full of meat juices ( this is not blood btw ) is a good feeding place for bacteria , but the meat itself is as least as good as the pad , so you wo n't be reducing the risk if you remove it . By leaving the meat in the original package , you reduce the risk of additional bacterial contamination during transfer . And no other container will offer better food safety . You can still consider a transfer for reasons other than food safety . First , you can portion and/or preshape the ground meat before freezing , and then you 'll have to repackage it . Second , if the package is not tight enough , you risk freezer burn . But if these do n't apply , it is probably best to leave it in the original container - this is convenient , and not dangerous at all .
The BBC lists strong white flour as simply flour made from hard white wheat , which tends to have a higher gluten content . By mixing all purpose flour ( German : 550 , French : 55 ) with the package recommended amount of vital wheat gluten or by using bread flour you should be able to make bread in your machine just fine . I usually use either AP flour or a mixture of AP and whole wheat ( German : 1600 , French : 150 ) , or even all whole wheat ( although with all wheat I find adding gluten is extremely helpful for getting a well-risen loaf ) . You can also buy other types of high gluten flour , either with that label or listed as bread flour . If you live in a part of the world with " 0 " and " 00 " flour , the protein content of " 00 " flour is similar to that of all purpose flour , but the grind of all purpose flour will be more coarse . " Panifiable " 00 flour has the gluten content of bread flour ( <URL> ) .
Try throwing some baking soda and lemon juice in it and run an empty load without soap . Repeat as needed . I 'd try about half a normal sized box of baking soda and half to a whole cup of lemon juice .
Your refrigerator should be set at a temperature below 4 Celsius . If it is n't , then you are exposing yourself to danger from eating the other things stored there . At this temperature , the cheesecake will keep perfectly without the icing deforming . Indeed , it will probably even keep well if the fridge temeprature is slightly high . Under no circumstances should you increase the temperature of your freezer . The cake risks texture change if it freezes . A freezer should always be kept below freezing , or else the other food stored in there will take large hits to both quality and safety .
You will need to be careful about extra liquid in your sauce . Your base recipe should be adaptable . Go ahead and use the garlic and onion , but I would omit the white wine . If you are using canned whole tomatoes , drain liquid before using them . Simmer it to reduce it down until it is " spreadable " rather than " pour-able " . We make a lot of home-made pizza sauce with canned whole San Marzano tomatoes , drained and puree 'd in blender . Salt , pepper , garlic and a few spices . My husband loves bright red color in the sauce so a bit of citric acid does the trick . Enjoy your pizza .
The <URL> suggestions : To ripen a California Avocado , place the fruit in a plain brown paper bag and store at room temperature 65-75 ° until ready to eat ( usually two to five days ) . Including an apple or banana in the bag accelerates the process because these fruits give off ethylene gas , a ripening reagent . Soft ripe fruit can be refrigerated until it is eaten , but not for more than two or three days . The California Avocado Commission does not recommend using a microwave to accelerate the ripening process .
Red bell peppers freeze really well after being roasted . This is the method I would recommend for you . The problem with freezing first is that it can degrade the peppers ( breaks the firm cell walls ) and would likely make them more difficult to roast afterwards . If you roast them first , the cooking starts the cell collapse itself and the peppers do n't tend to degrade more afterwards , plus your peppers are already roasted , so you 've saved yourself that step in your pasta making process . The process is pretty simple ... roast as usual , parcel into recipe-sized portions in small zip top bags ( do n't forget to date the bags ) and freeze or roast , put on a cookie sheet ( if you have one that fits in the freezer ) , and freeze in a single layer . Once frozen , they can all go in one big bag and they should n't stick to each other too badly . <URL> that explains the process with some roasting tips . And another <URL> .
Depends on the type of cabbage , but I 've had success with prepping as if I was about to boil , and then freeze on a dry cloth ; Once frozen , transfer to an air tight freezer bag , and use as fast as is practical .
You ' can ' cook it from frozen , knowing that a few things will suffer . First , the outside will be somewhat dried out and over-cooked before it is done in the center , depending on how hot the oven is and the cooking time . That being said , if your Haggis is pre-cooked , it should be OK . You can also ' Hurry up ' the defrosting process by putting it under running water . This can affect texture , depending on what you are defrosting . Finally , you can speed-defrost something by using warm running water , but this carries SOME SERIOUS RISK if you do n't cook it right away . The bacteria will love the warmth and will start to multiply , but I have done this many times when I knew I was using a meat immediately .
It seems like a lot of recipes recomend gelatin , which could add to the stretchyness . I frequent serious eats and a while ago they posted this recipe and they claim that it is great and stretchy . <URL>
Oven cleaner will take that right off . If you 're sensitive to nasty harmful fumes you can get the fume free kind . Make sure you follow the manufacturer 's instructions to the letter , and make sure no kids or pets are around .
Yes , you can freeze stew . You may find that the vegetables are a bit softer or broken into smaller pieces after thawing . If you used a thickening agent ( flour , cornstarch ) , it may separate as it thaws in the refrigerator overnight . To remedy that , remove a bit of the liquid , simmer with a bit more thickener and whisk so that it stabilizes . Then , gently stir into the stew as you reheat it . And , you 're correct , ' do n't refreeze ' applies to the raw meat , not to when it has been cooked .
If you 've baked your puff pastry in the past at 375 then it 's probably not a temperature problem , however I usually bake it between 400-425 degrees ( 400 convection or 425 in standard oven ) . Lower temperatures are n't a problem for the baking aspect as it will still cook through . The problem lies in the fact that the heat wo n't be significant enough to generate the steam needed for expansion . Egg wash could be a culprit as it should only be used on the top and not allowed to run down the sides where it will seal the edge together and keep it from rising unevenly .
If you freeze it , the gravy may separate or curdle after thawing . Stir well , though , and it should be fine . Cooked meat will be less dry if frozen in a bit of gravy ... so if you have any leftover meat , that would be a great way to save both .
end question
start question
How to make a dessert with dynamically opening flower petals ?
Gravity is making the petals open . If you look at the shape of the petals their center of gravity is towards the outside of the bowl , but they are being held in place by something underneath . I suspect that it 's simply one piece of chocolate melted onto another . When the custard ( warm or hot ) is poured on it melts the bonds holding the petals in place allowing them to fall .
Remember your stages of sugar boiling and how they come out , if it 's too sticky or soft it is probably down to too low a final temperature ( wrong texture ) or more likely too much golden syrup . Be sparing with the golden syrup / glucose syrup , the sucrose will set in to hard sugars , but the glucose/inverted sugar syrup acts as a crystallisation inhibitor , vinegar can be used to similar effect ( though does not enrich the flavour so ) . It sets too , but I find too much can lead to weeping . Also , I have heard that an overly humid environment can be a problem . People used to say not to cook toffee on a humid day .
There 's <URL> . <URL> seems pretty simple . It looks like in general , you : Liquify your peppers Cook the result with vinegar Strain it Cook the result with salt and sugar Add some pectin Add some whole jalepenos ( probably optional ) Transfer to jars
I had the same problem before , but I learned this great trick from Larousse : Try sprinkling slices of your eggplant with plenty of salt on both sides and let rest for about fifteen minutes . The salt will draw out a lot of water from the vegetable , making it less spongy . Then , dry off the slices before adding them to very hot oil in a frying pan . The hot oil should help make a nice sear , sealing off the eggplant , so it does n't soak up anymore oil . If you need to , turn down the heat after the eggplant is browned to let it finish cooking .
My version of this ( <URL> ) actually came with a set of instructions . It 's not meant to be used for cooking , only for serving . Place the pan in a hot oven for about 30 mins to heat it up ( while you 're cooking ) , then put your fajitas on it to bring to the table . The cast iron will retain heat for a long time and keep anything you serve on it sizzling hot . A cast iron pan would be a great way to cook fajitas , but the shallow sides and strange shape of the " sizzler " pan make it impractical to really cook on . The same instruction book also recommends using another cast iron pan ( two , actually ) to cook the fajitas . If you want to use it for something other than fajitas , it would work just fine as a small griddle . You could probably cook pancakes , a strip steak , or chicken breast on it , but nothing that requires any stirring .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
Okay , I undeleted my OP to this question ( to be honest , not sure how similar the two are ... , never checked that closely ) . The most important thing to watch for in terms of the ' silkiness ' would be the mixing and ingredient temp . When all ingredients are at room temp , they homogonize much quicker , and require far less mixing , therefore less air is incorporated , making for a denser product . I think this should help . Short of that , it could be recipe . A perfect cheesecake recipe is hard to find ( luckily , I have one ) . Can I post it here ? I do n't think it 's allowed ... Answer I typed yesterday ( sorry if it is essentially a dupe ) ... I ' @ work , do n't have time to check too closely ... I have made thousands of cheesecakes . My pastry chef taught me how a method that has always worked : Always use room temperature ingredients . NEVER overmix , incorporation of air is your enemy Set your oven to 300 F ( sorry , in Canada we are metric , but use Farenheit for baking ) . Place your cheesecake in a water bath . Bake for 30 minutes . Turn off the oven and open its door , allow the cheesecake to rest for 30 minutes , sitting in the oven in this state . After the thirty minute rest , carefully close the door , and set the oven to 300 F again . Bake another 30 minutes ( I have sometimes had to go to 40 minutes depending on oven ) . And that 's it . Works every time . I am so thankful he taught me this . As an added bonus , you will get a cake that is flat like a board , with no cracks .
You need to warm them up a bit . There are a number of ways to do this 20 or 30 seconds on a griddle ( or a <URL> if you have one ) wrap a stack in foil and place in 325 oven for until warm wrap a stack in a clean towel and steam them using a steamer slightly moisten a towel and wrap it around a stack and microwave them for a bit If you 've warmed them and they are still tearing then your tortillas are no longer fresh .
It is possible , whether it fits your definition of easily is questionable , though . Whole grain flour is made by grinding whole wheat/rye / ... berries until you get a fine flour , a technique used since the neolithic age . The method that is still in use today is basically " rubbing the grains between a firm base stone and a moving upper stone " , either shaped like a rolling pin or round and flat like a millstone . ( Increase the scale and you get a classic mill . ) So your mortar and pestle will work , even if they are not made of the types of sandstone , basalt or limestone that have the " right " mixture of coarseness and durability to make good millstones . The drawback ? Scale and time . You will probably need a lot of time , to get enough flour for a bread . For a starter , it should be ok , though . If you think about buying a mill because you decide your super-fresh flour is worth the effort and cost , note that good manual mills with ceramic stones are almost as expensive as electric ones , but are way less comfortable . I make a lot of things myself and by hand in my kitchen , but I would draw the line at cranking a mill for half an hour just to get flour for one bread . For a very " kitchen hack " style of grinding flour ( but obviously not " stone ground " ) , consider your food processor ( but check the manual first ! ) : Pulse a cup or two of wheat berries untill you see " flour " and " grits " forming . Sieve off the finer parts , return the coarser to the food processor , add more grains and continue . You can even use the coarser parts for some kinds of wholegrain bread - a question of taste and recipe .
You have basically made tea-flavoured vodka . The <URL> ( for essential oil ) is unrelated to the <URL> for the beverage . Commercially , tea tree oil is produced by <URL> , specifically <URL> . Though possible to obtain leaves and perform the distillation , it 's probably not practical on a small scale outside of the tea tree production regions . For completeness , <URL> is toxic ; you do n't want to eat it . What you used was conventional tea leaves . The tea beverage is made by steeping ( soaking in hot water ) leaves of the <URL> , which have been dried or otherwise prepared ( e.g. , fermented , roasted , etc. ) .
This is what we figured out at Serious Eats : <URL> In sum , use more sugar , whip the cream , freeze in icecube trays and run through a Cuisinart at the end .
A foam is just a liquid with plenty of air incorporated into it . You can incorporate air into any liquid ; in order to be able to create an actual foam , however , you need to be able to incorporate the air faster than it escapes . What makes a liquid able to hold the air you 're incorporating ( and hence form a foam ) is a foam stabilizer , also commonly called an emulsifier1 . I know of no specific taxonomy of stabilizers , but the vast majority are hydrocolloids AKA gelling agents and belong to some family of protein . Agar , carrageenan , alginate , xanthan , and pectin are all types of <URL> ; Lecithin is mostly a random collection of <URL> ; Gelatin is denatured collagen , i.e. animal protein ; Whey protein is the prevalent protein in dairy products ; And so on . Really almost any emulsifier will do . Basically everything in your list either is , or contains , one of the the additives mentioned above : Chocolate is almost always emulsified with soy lecithin ; Eggs contain high amounts of lecithin ; Milk and cream contain whey protein ; Most " supermarket cream " also has emulsifiers like carrageenan already in it . ... you get the picture , I hope . The most basic answer I can give to this is that if you want to make a foam , you need to either use something that 's already an emulsion ( milk , butter , chocolate , etc. ) or use an emulsifier/stabilizer additive ( such as gelatin , lecithin , etc. ) If you want a relatively complete list of all of the food additives that qualify , you 'll want to look at the E number , and specifically <URL> ( thickeners , stabilizers , emulsifiers ) . 1 . As commenter Erik very correctly points out , an emulsifier is not the same thing as a foam stabilizer . However , by convention , the terms seem to be used interchangeably all over the place , to the extent that I get blank looks when I refer to a " stabilizer " as opposed to " emulsifier " . So , know the difference , but do n't get too hung up on it .
Take double cream ( you want a 48 % milk fat , which is hard to get in the U.S. outside of a specialty market ; heavy cream has a 30-40 % milk fat content ) and shake it . Forever . To be more specific , after sealing your double cream in , say , a jam jar , shake it until you hear the sloshing sound of butter forming ( which will take anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour ) ; drain the liquid off and then rinse the butter until the water runs clearly over it . Squeeze your butter ( I use cheese cloth or a linen napkin for this ) to rid it of excess liquid ( excess liquid can lead to rancidity ) , shape it into a block , and wrap it with wax paper .
Interesting question . Did search ' how do I make puffed rice ' . Came up with some interesting information . There are some writings that suggest that puffed rice can be made like popcorn ; get the moisture in the grains of rice to the correct level ( no idea what the level should be , experimentation should guide you I suppose ) and then ( depending on what source you read ) put in a popcorn popper , put it on sheets in the oven or fry it in oil . The history indicates that the first puffed rice made in the U.S. was actually shot from a cannon , after , I presume , being thoroughly soaked to some level of softness ; there was a cereal advert in the '60s that bragged " this is the cereal that 's shot from guns " . Am thinking that the softening of the rice , probably by cooking , and then putting it into a pressure vessel in which the pressure is allowed to rise to a certain PSI ( pounds per square inch ) and explosively releasing the pressure , causes the grains to boil or fizz or effervesce , gives them the light puffiness we see at the market . If I 'm reading the information correctly , the devices to make puffed rice are available Here is a link to a video showing the explosive creation of puffed rice by a traveling puffed rice manufactury on a bicycle in Taiwan ; <URL> Here are some other links , kind of vague , regarding non explosive puffed rice : <URL> <URL> <URL> This last link has some history &amp; speculation of how puffed rice has been made non explosively using hot salt , or sand ... did n't read all of the ideas . Have fun , and be safe .
You 'll want to temper the melted chocolate . This means holding it at 88 ° F ( 31 ° C ) while it cools until it is completely hardened , then finally allowing it to return to room temperature ( or lower ) afterward . If you temper the chocolate this way , it will be much harder and last indefinitely at room temperature . The easiest way to temper chocolate is the " seed method " , which means adding a piece of solid ( never-melted ) chocolate to the fully-melted chocolate after removing it from the heat source and stirring thoroughly until the temperature reaches 88 ° F / 31 ° C , and then keeping it at that temperature until you 're ready to use it . ( Note that this is for dark chocolate ; for temperatures for other types of chocolate and for a more detailed guide to tempering , I suggest you check out the <URL> . ) The technical explanation for this is that the temperature at which melted chocolate hardens determines its final consistency as a solid . If chocolate hardens at room temperature , it ends up forming a very weak crystalline structure that begins to melt at even the slightest rise in temperature ( i.e. in your hand ) . Allowing it to solidify at the highest possible temperature below the actual melting point ensures that it forms a denser crystalline structure and will not melt at room temperature .
Moka coffee pots work well if you use them every day . This way the oils that the coffee leaves inside them do not have the opportunity to go rancid ( all fats go rancid eventually ) and impart that horrible taste to your coffee . If you use them every day , it is true that you do n't really need to clean them , except to remove calcium scale buildup . If you use it rarely , like in your case or the frequent Moka pot left at a vacation house , you need to clean it with dish detergent and a scrubby sponge , you do n't need anything harsher . Make sure that you get all the coffee brown oils out . Yes , it is an unpleasant job . Make sure you rinse it well before putting it away to dry , you do n't want to simply replace the bitterness with soapiness . ... and this is the Italian doctrine ! :-)
Making maraschino cherries is a bit involved ... basically , you brine them and then flavor them . To keep them for a long time , you 'll also need to can them . <URL> a great recipe for making the cherries , and <URL> instructions for canning . The canning instructions are specifically for cherry topping , but you would use the same boiling-water canner process for maraschino cherries in their syrup . To pit the cherries , I 'd advise purchasing a cherry pitter ( yes , there 's actually a device for this ) if you 're going to be doing this very much .
Marsala is a <URL> , that is , a wine to which extra alcohol has been added . Therefore , you can store Marsala outside of the fridge , in a cool place ( 15-20 ° C ) , away from direct light . In these conditions a bottle can sit there for several weeks/months with no obvious degradation , as you would expect for fortified wines . Generally it is suggested to drink Marsala or similar wines , such as Porto or Banyuls , in the following 4/5 months , but I had bottles opened for a year or so and they were still good , although the flavour faded a bit . As for Marsala all ' uovo , it has pasteurized egg yolks in it , and even home-made recipes call for a pasteurization step . In general I would store home-made one in the fridge to be on the safe side , but do not serve it too cold . Commercial ones may also have preservatives ( aside from the added alcohol of Marsala ) in them , and are safe to leave in a cool place for several weeks .
Not authentic but a rice pudding cooked in coconut milk ( cardamom opt ) and chilled in individual portions is lovely with fresh fruit at the table . I had it served with passionfruit - lovely . Keep portions dainty after a full curry meal !
Melting carob is a bit different from chocolate . The sugar crystal formation is not the same for tempering chocolate . One suggestion is to add paramount crystals ( which is a combination of palm kernel oil and soy lecithin ) to help start/control the process . I would also recommend not keeping the double boiler actually on the double boiler for the entire time . Heat it up until some of the carob melts . Remove from heat and stir . Add it back to the heat and continue removing to stir as each bit melts a little more . It takes longer but it allows you to control the heating and crystallization process . End the end , you should have a smoother and more even end result .
end question
start question
Why wo n't my beans soften ?
Soaking beans will not soften them . If done for a very long time ( i.e. , days ) , some beans will eventually begin to sprout or ferment , at which point they will become softer . But that is generally not desirable for basic cooking . Instead , you 'll need to cook the beans to get them to soften . Bring to a slow boil and then simmer until the interior is the desired texture . ( A common test is to take a few beans out on a spoon and blow on them ; if the outside of the bean breaks open a bit when you blow , they are likely soft and cooked through . ) By the way , the main purpose of soaking is to hydrate the seed coat ( the outer covering of the beans ) . Once that happens , the moisture can more easily penetrate the interior when cooked , allowing the beans to soften . If you do n't soak , you 'll simply waste the first part of your cooking hydrating the seed coat . Depending on the type of beans , their age , and other factors , that could increase your cooking time by anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour or so . ( For more details , see my previous answer to another question <URL> . ) Also , do NOT try using an acid . Acids can actually toughen the seed coat , making the beans take longer to cook and soften . This is one of the reasons chili recipes ( for example ) often recommend cooking the beans first , before adding to acidic ingredients like tomatoes . ( Note that cooking times for beans and lentils can vary significantly , depending on type of bean and age . For a mixed bean soup , I 'd expect about 1-2 hours of simmering for pre-soaked beans , and perhaps as many as 3 hours . Older beans can take longer , and I 've occasionally had old batches of dried beans which never quite softened to a consistent texture . ) EDIT : Just to add onto Joe 's great advice from the Dry Bean Council , Harold McGee has this to say about beans which never soften ( from On Food and Cooking ) : " Hard-to-cook " beans ... are normal when harvested , but become resistant to softening when they 're stored for a long time -- months -- at warm temperatures and high humidities . This resistance results from a number of changes in bean cell walls and interiors , including the formation of woody lignin , the conversion of phenolic compounds into tannins that cross-link proteins to form a water-resistant coating around the starch granules . There 's no way to reverse these changes and make hard-to-cook beans as soft as regular beans . And there 's no way to spot them before cooking . Once cooked , they 're likely to be smaller than normal and so may be picked out before serving . McGee also mentions that occasionally you may encounter batches of " hard-seed " beans , which hardened during particularly hot and humid growing conditions . In such cases , the beans will be tough no matter how early they are used ; they may take much longer to cook than usual ( and sometimes may never soften ) .
Perhaps I 'm stating the obvious , but is your oven rack perfectly level ? Muffin mix initially has low enough viscosity that it can be influenced by gravity as it gradually rises . Even a small inclination of the tray/rack is likely to cause this .
The crystalization is to be expected , that 's what inverted sugar does . It is the same thing as with honey , which is chemically nothing but a contaminated inverted sugar . So , you are not doing anything wrong . In an inverted sugar at sucrose ratios , you will get sucrose crystalizing back out of the solution , just as you are observing now . If you really need it smooth , you can try changing the ratio by adding some fructose , as such a mixture is less prone to crystalizing . The one thing that puzzles me in your description is that you can not get it back smooth by heating , this should in principle be possible . Maybe try adding a bit of water to the syrup itself during heating , so it can dissolve again .
There is a large collection or reasons , some are : Differences in makes and models Modern form over function problems Crap EU standards ( EN 60350 etc ) that limit the amount of power a element can use . It 's something like < = 0.25 W per cm2 , and a typical domestic over is around 1100 cm2 For same standards the typical total KW/h of modern over is 3.5 KW/h , where ovens of twenty years ago where around 4.5 KW/h \
I have that problem when I am impatient and do n't let the pasta dry out long enough before putting it on to boil . It is important to let the pasta dry even just in loose little heaps once sliced into noodles . It does n't have to get totally dry just dry enough that you ca n't squish the noodles back together into dough . Also you need to cook fresh pasta for a very short amount of time in a LOT of water , about 1.5 x as much water as you would use for dry , so that the noodles have less chance to run into each other . In fact I frequently do n't boil them at all separately but just toss them in the soup I am serving them with for for a two to three minutes before serving .
I do n't know that type of rice , but it sounds like it ran out of liquid before it was done . Some types of rice can be done in about 10m , some take over half an hour . My tricks for risotto like dishes are : wash the rice to remove loose starch taste regularly so you can intervene as needed , avoid stirring as much as you can ( you can stir a few times to avoid burning ) , fry the rice with the onions before adding water , add liquid in small batches until it 's done . Try it with a few small batches to get the hang of it . It could very well be the wrong type of rice , so you may want to try other brands .
" Fibrous " and " dry " are good descriptions for bean which have n't been prepared properly . Mostly , they have either not been soaked long enough , or have n't been cooked for long enough . Normal times for beans are about 12 hours soaking in water and another 1-3 hours cooking , depending on the desired texture . Also , sometimes beans can be cooked with about quarter/half a teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda , which softens them nicely . That should be a start towards solving your problem . To answer your question , I think that white beans and pinto beans are a good start ( you can make a chili , for instance ) , and that chickpeas are also a very good starting point . Cooked chickpeas are great as-is , and can be seasoned with cumin , salt and lemon juice for a nice snack .
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
It sounds like you may be having temperature control issues . If it 's not dark enough , keep it over low heat for a bit longer . If it 's hardening/burning , it 's probably caused by one of the following : 1 ) your stovetop ( if burner is n't turned low enough or burner is too large and overheats sides of pan ) 2 ) your pan ( easy to burn things if your pan is n't sufficiently thick-bottomed ) 3 ) lack of attention during the carmelization process ( you need to move the sugar towards the center once carmelization begins to prevent burning at the edges , but not stir it too much ) . You might find these <URL> helpful for troubleshooting .
Toughness is usually the result of either too much gluten ( which in turn comes from using a flour too high in protein ) , or not enough fat ( or possibly adding the fat at the wrong time ) . Poor volume on the other hand is usually the result of using low-protein flour , and thus not having enough gluten formation . Therefore it is logical to assume that the most likely cause of your bread troubles is the fat . Try adding some more fat .
I 'm not sure what causes the bowing to be more pronounced from one cooking method versus another , but the solution is to put a thumbprint indentation in the middle , creating a slight " donutted " shape . This will help to ensure you get the " patty " shape you want .
Most pestos use olive oil , which solidifies at around 6 degrees celsius - just over the temperature of the average fridge . The shop-bought pestos you buy probably adulterate the olive oil with other kinds of oils . In any case , you 'll be able to eat your pesto just by leaving it out at room temperature for a few hours , or by just scooping it out and adding to your hot pasta .
I believe the answer to the question lies in the last paragraph of your question . If you had close to 4 cups of broth , 1 1/2 cups of half-and-half , plus onion purée ( which would be mostly water ) ; you 're pushing 6 cups of liquid , not including any wine or brandy that you may have used . For that much liquid you would need close to a quarter of a cup of flour , maybe more , to achieve a thick soup if roux is your primary thickener . Many bisque recipes are thickened much with a purée of the protein . Did you purée the shrimp or some portion of it ? Look at this <URL> , she uses 4 3/4 cups of broth ( in the final soup ) , 2 cups of half-and-half and a roux made with 1/4 cup ( 4 tbs flour ) . She also purées all of the shrimp , which causes a thicker soup than chunks of shrimp would , and adds tomato paste which would further thicken the soup . For what it is worth , it is the flour in the roux that thickens liquid ( an extra tablespoon of butter is not your culprit ) , and the liquid and roux must be brought together to a simmer for the liquid to properly thicken . In the case of Ina 's recipe , she fully thickened the half-and-half before adding the stock and shrimp purée , that 's how she gets away with the final line of hot , not boiling . I would be inclined to add the stock and the rest of the ingredients except the shrimp just after thickening the half-and-half and bring that to hard simmer before adding the shrimp . That would give me an opportunity to taste and gauge the thickness the soup before adding the expensive ingredient ( shrimp ) last .
It probably would not damage anything , but you would end up with rather a mess to clean up , probably , and not a very good product . The chocolate would melt slowly , maybe clog the filter . It might overflow hot , sticky coffee chocolate liquid all over . The candy is also probably old enough since it was roasted that it would n't brew excellent coffee , even if it was n't chocolate coated . Eat them as candy -- you will at least get your caffeine fix that way ! You will have energy to go out and get some coffee .
Generally you soak them in a small amount of very hot water for about 10 minutes or until they are as soft as you want them . The flavorful liquid that comes out of that process can be used in salad dressings , soups , sauces , etc. ( A quick way to do this is throw them in a microwave safe bowl with water to cover and microwave for say 3 minutes , then allow to stand . )
Coffee can be used for a variety of things BESIDES drinking straight . Off the top of my head , you can use less-than-perfect beans for : Chocolate mousse and cakes : brew into coffee , and add to the chocolate mix for a richer flavor Ice cream and sorbets . Coffee ice cream is awesome , and the cream will mask defects Chocolate-covered coffee beans . These make a great pick-me up snack for mornings , sweet and caffeinated . Coffee-flavored simple syrup , for baking and cocktails . Use equal weights coffee and simple syrup . Compost . Grounds compost very well , especially if used In a pinch , stale beans also make great projectiles . Got squirrels on your bird feeder ? Coffee bean slingshot !
In Scotland we make a kind of fudge that is deliberatly hard and crystallised known as <URL> . This was a popular treat when I was growing up . Essencially the recipe for tablet , soft fudge , toffee and caramel are quite similar . The difference is made by how you cook and treat the mix as it cools . Essentially you need to know about <URL> . There are two important levels used : soft boil , and hard boil . My cook books suggest using a sugar thermometer to get the perfect boil but I 've never found a sugar thermometer in the shops . Instead I rely on a great deal of practice , the colour , the texture and the drip of the mix to gage how hot the sugar is . In a soft boil ( 234 -- 240 ° F or 112 -- 115 ° C ) , if you drip the mix onto a very cold surface or into cold water , then touch the drip with your finger , it will be soft like caramel . Additionally the colour will change from cream to yellow/tan . In a hard boil ( 250 -- 266 ° F or 121 -- 130 ° C ) , dripping again onto a cold surface or into cold water , then touching the drip with your finger , it will be firmer or even hard . The colour will darken slightly to a dark yellow or light brown . For caramel and fudge you go to a soft boil then cool . For tablet and toffee you go to a hard boil . The next part is the cooling . This is equally important as the boiling . The faster you cool the mix the smaller the crystals become . The slower , the larger . If you want a caramel or a toffee , you must avoid agitating the mix as it cools . For fudge you should stir the gently as it cools slightly before pouring onto the try . For tablet , the mix should be vigorously stirred until stiff then poured onto a try .
The microwave caused heat which released oils from the coppa 's spice blend , including capsaicin .
I think it all got too hot , but there might be other problems . Did you mix the cornstarch in completely ? Leaving undissolved cornstarch is a sure way to obtain ' blobs ' . Did you pour the hot milk onto the egg-mixture ? You should do that very slowly and whisk vigorously ( while trying to splash everything ) . If the eggs get too hot , they will coagulate . Did you use a double boiler ? Putting the pan on an open flame will make the bottom too hot and the eggs will coagulate . Even if you did use a double boiler , did you whisk regularly while heating ? The eggs at the bottom will become far warmer than the eggs in the center ... As rumtscho mentioned , a thermometer will be useful for monitoring the done-ness of the custard . Generally , a fully cooked custard should not exceed 80 ° C ; it begins setting at 70 ° C. Source : <URL>
As your question stands , the possible answers are essentially : You used too much liquid or too little cornmeal . You did n't cook it long enough . You did n't cool it enough for it to firm up . Polenta is the sort of food that you should make by trusting your senses over a recipe . You should be able to tell , with a little bit of experience , whether it 's too thin and wet after cooking for it to set once it cools . If it is , you can cook it a bit longer on low heat to get more water out of it , and the next time you can compensate with more cornmeal or less liquid . Also , since I do n't know what recipe you used , do note that there are also recipes out there for soft polenta ( usually described as such ) , which is intended to be served soft , not cut .
end question
start question
To freeze or not to freeze ?
It is a rather long timescale , but you already made the thing . I would put it in the freezer for 24 hours , the leave it in the fridge to thaw . That should be right on target for Sunday , without having to worry about infringing any guidelines .
I have " ice packs " which are encased in plastic ( some hard , some soft ) , that I keep frozen . It wo n't quite bring your soup down as far as you want , but dropping a few of these into your soup will help cool it off . Just remember to clean them before returning them to the freezer . The other thing I do it put the stopper in my sink and add cold water and ice . The whole pot goes in the sink -- surrounded by cold water and ice it will cool much faster than in the fridge ( or freezer ) . Add some salt to the ice-water and it will get even colder . Stir it up a bit every once in a while both inside and outside ( use separate spoons ! ) to keep the temperature distribution even . Alternatively , you could use one of <URL> :)
Doner kebab is A ) not a single joint of meat and B ) cooked in slices , so attempting to get anything similar with the technique you described is a triumph of optimism over reality I 'm afraid . As Gary suggests , lamb/mutton shoulder requires long , slow cooking , but this will not yield a doner-like result in terms of texture . I would rub the lamb with plenty of spices , cumin , coriander , garlic etc and olive oil . Make small cuts in the meat and really massage the spices in . Place the lamb in a roasting tin and cover with foil . Get the oven as hot as it will go , put the lamb in , and turn it down to 150C . Cook for 4 hours and the meat will fall off the bone . Pull to shreds and serve in pitta breads with yoghurt , salad , onions and chilli sauce . Voila !
I tried this recently . Washed &amp; dried them and put them in a plastic bag in freezer for 30 mins only . It worked well for me - they were much tastier and a better texture .
I have frozen eggplant Parmesan before with good results . I breaded the eggplant , fried it , then put Parmesan on top while it was still hot enough to melt . I let them cool and then froze the fried eggplant slices separated by pieces of parchment paper . When I needed to use them , I put them on a sheet pan , still frozen , and threw them in the oven until the cheese was melted and slightly browned , then proceeded as I normally would .
The key is to have the finest possible salt . One way to do this is to take any salt you like , and grind it fine in a mortar and pestle . This just takes a few seconds , and then you can customize to a particular sea salt you enjoy and avoid the need to buy a special popcorn salt . A rotating action in the mortar and pestle ( as opposed to pounding ) is most efficient for grinding salt .
It 's never the best of an idea taking the cake out of the oven during its cooking as you 'll probably knock it a bit and knock the air out and then it 'll cool down a bit and so take longer too cook . Saying that , the whole thing is when you take the cake out . As a rule do n't take your cake out until at least half-way through the cooking time , that way the starch will have started to set . If you take your cake out multiple times 5 minutes before , say , it do n't make to much of a difference as by then the cake is practically cooked . Some cakes are more susceptible : foam cakes ( genoise , chiffon , etc ) are the most likely to feel the full force of you taking the cake out of the oven as it will likely deflate all of the air you 've worked so hard to create , however , butter cakes ( pound , fruit , etc ) wil not be so effected as these are a lot denser and rely more on chemical leaveners . There are lots of ways to check if your cakes done . If its a cake with quite a thin batter , open the oven door and give it a tiny wobble ( not a great big shake to deflate it ) and if it wobbles its definitely not done , if it does n't wobble you can progress to the next step which is poking in a skewer or knife and if it comes out clean it 's done , use this technique for all cake types . Another way is when the cake looks golden ( unless it 's a chocolate cake ) , press your finger down on the cake and if it springs back it 's done . A lot is made about not opening your oven door , in modern ovens today , this does n't make much of a difference as they can quickly get back up to temperature , particularly if you just open the door a crack . On a final point having a reliable oven temperature is one of the most important steps . Buying a little oven thermometer is a good investment , they 're very cheap and will save a lot of hastle
This is absolutely fine , especially if the eggs are pasteurised . I 've seen plenty of recipes that have raw egg in them that say it ; s fine to freeze them . You can even freeze eggs ( that have been mixed up a little ) for up to three months . So yes , I 'd say freeze it as soon as possible . Also , if you were concerned about freezing the quinoa that will fine as well ( a lot of people do n't know you can store grains in the freezer ) . Enjoy !
If you freeze it , the gravy may separate or curdle after thawing . Stir well , though , and it should be fine . Cooked meat will be less dry if frozen in a bit of gravy ... so if you have any leftover meat , that would be a great way to save both .
I 'm with @Ward -- I like being able to scour my pans for those times when even <URL> does n't work . ( although , I 've found that if you ever forget about the stock that you 're trying to reduce ... burning chicken bones is a nasty smell and will stain even stainless steel ) . I do have some non-stick , and even a non-stick flat-bottomed wok ( from circulon , but then , I 'm also using electric , so it 's possible I do n't get enough heat to ruin it ; I also never pre-heat it without oil in it , as you should never heat a dry nonstick vessel ) . I 'd say to look at replacing your set bit by bit -- which items do you cook that really need non-stick , and what pan do you cook it in ? Maybe replace your more beat-up items with something not non-stick , try cooking with it , and see how well you like cooking with them -- it 's possible that you wo n't like it , and it 'd be better to be out the cost of only a piece or two than a whole set . You could even try out a few different materials -- cast iron , stainless , anodized aluminum , etc. . It also might take a little time to get used to cooking with out the non-stick . One mistake I 've seen people make is not giving their pans enough time to pre-heat . ( I think it was the Frugal Gourmet who 'd say " Hot pan , cold food , food wo n't stick " ... which is n't entirely true , but you 'll have much less problems with a hot pan ) .
So I waited about 3 weeks because I was on vacation since I put my loaf in the freezer . Some notes on the dough structure The dough was fully proofed , but that meant that the structure very much resembled a cracker . It would be stiff until you broke into it , at which point it would break &amp; collapse into itself irreparably <URL> The dough was frozen into the container , so I waited about 1.5 hours for it to thaw out . That meant that the core of the dough was frozen while the outside was thawed <URL> Fortunately , the thawed dough was still just as moist as it had been went into the freezer I could not score the loaf because the interior was too frozen . The loaf therefore came out without any perforations in the top . This , along with the frozen interior , likely severely limited oven spring . I expected the non-frozen version of this loaf to have double the volume . <URL> The flavor is pretty bland , unfortunately . Overall , would not recommend unless in an emergency !
After a quick Google search , I found <URL> that deals with this exact matter . They 'll grate well and it 's handy when ( just semi-defrost them ) you need some grated zest as you can just pull out a bag from the freezer and sprinlkle them into your recipe . They 'll juice but you need to defrost them which I 'm told is best done by ' zapping ' them in the microwave for 30 seconds . Apparently you get more juice after they 've been frozen as it bursts the cell walls releasing more juice . Hope this helps !
Depending on what you 're going to cook , there are a few ways you can freeze them . For most uses , I find the simplest method is just to peel , core , and slice them . First , you want to keep the slices from browning using one of the following methods : Dip them in lemon juice . Dip in a salt water dip ( 2 tbsp salt to 1 gallon water ) Quickly steam/blanch ( 1-2 minutes ) to stop the enzymes that cause browning , Pack them in a sugar syrup ( usually used when you plan to serve the apples as-is after defrosting , see link referenced below ) . A good ratio is 2 cups sugar to 3 cups of water , plus 1/2 tsp of ascorbic acid to prevent browning . You 'll want to make about 1 cup syrup per quart of apples . Personally , I prefer the lemon juice method , it 's proven to be quite effective for me and I always have lemons in hand in the house . Freeze apple slices on a single layer on a cookie sheet ( in the bottom of the freezer ) then transfer to a Ziploc bag when solid . The sheet method allows them to freeze as fast as possible in the typical home freezer , and prevents them from sticking together so you can portion them as you need them . If you 're going to be storing for a long time , wrap them in plastic wrap and then foil before putting in the bag . Some people just wash and freeze them whole , though I prefer do to the prep before freezing so I can just pull them out of the freezer and use them . They will freeze well whole , however I find that the ruptured cell walls cause them to be harder to peel/core after defrosting using this method . If you 're going to make a pie , you can also freeze them with sugars and spices etc ( prepared just as you would make a pie filling ) in a pie pan . You can then take them out of the freezer like that , drop the prepared , shaped mixture right into a pie crust , and bake your pie with a slight increase in baking time . As far as how long they 'll last , they 'll be safe indefinitely , but will lose flavor after a few months , I would n't recommend going past 6 . <URL> says 2-4 but I 've pushed it further than that and there was n't a ton of flavor loss . Might depend on variety of apple as well . The suggestions on <URL> are in line with my personal experience ( and expand upon them ! )
As your question stands , the possible answers are essentially : You used too much liquid or too little cornmeal . You did n't cook it long enough . You did n't cool it enough for it to firm up . Polenta is the sort of food that you should make by trusting your senses over a recipe . You should be able to tell , with a little bit of experience , whether it 's too thin and wet after cooking for it to set once it cools . If it is , you can cook it a bit longer on low heat to get more water out of it , and the next time you can compensate with more cornmeal or less liquid . Also , since I do n't know what recipe you used , do note that there are also recipes out there for soft polenta ( usually described as such ) , which is intended to be served soft , not cut .
It 's called honeyjack when freeze distilled . I have n't seen any specific name for steam distilled mead , so it 's likely fine to use the same name for both products . Mead can also be distilled to a brandy or liqueur strength . A version called " honey jack " can be made by partly freezing a quantity of mead and straining the ice out of the liquid ( a process known as freeze distillation ) , in the same way that applejack is made from cider . <URL> Unfortunately there are a number of " honey brandies " and " honey liqueurs " that are simply other liquor bases with honey added for flavor and sweetness . Also , see the discussion on <URL>
As a rule , avocado should only be frozen in <URL> . When frozen , it should be placed in an air-tight container ( such as a sealable dish or freezer bag ) with only enough room for expansion as it cools . The variable fat and water content of avocados is not well suited to freezing , and renders the thawed product <URL> , a far cry from the normal texture of avocados . The thawed puree , however , can be used as a sandwich spread , in the creation of dips ( such as guacamole ) , or any recipe where solid pieces of avocado are either not desired or not required . If a dish has avocado cooked into it -- again , non-solid form is preferable -- the freezability of the dish would be dependent on whether or not such a dish is normally freezable ( if not normally containing avocado ) .
By " it stays longer " do you mean that the egg stays good longer or the membrane/air pocket stays around longer ? I do n't know why you would care about the air pocket so I 'll go with the other . Orientation is not going to noticeably affect egg quality . I do n't use egg cartons . I store my eggs in plastic tubs ( carefully ) . The eggs end up in a random orientation and there is no noticeable difference between any two eggs . I have heard to people storing the eggs differently to center the yolks in preparation for boiling . This is purely a cosmetic thing .
I typically use potato , flour and egg . Make . Freeze . Then , go directly from freezer to boiling water . Do not defrost first .
The change in flavor is mainly affected by packaging and how long before it gets frozen . Packaging : If you have vacuum sealed chicken it will last quite a while . It wo n't get freezer burnt , dry out or pick up flavors from other freezer occupants . I would say properly packaged will last months to a year range depending on your taste buds . Time before freezing : I have a habit of buying meat to cook right away , but end up freezing it raw several days after the fact . I then see it a week or two later and pull it out to cook . It never tastes as good as when I freeze it immediately .
Either would be safe . You will get better quality by freezing them uncooked . They should not get soggy due to the freezing , as neither the meat filling , nor the wrappers , are particularly subject to ice crystal damage . Gyoza are very small , so you should not need to thaw them : just begin the steaming phase right out of the freezer , and they will thaw while cooking . If you do wish to thaw them , do it in the refrigerator and they will be perfectly safe , despite the raw filling . You are correct that if you freeze them after cooking , you will loose the crispy bottoms -- this would be true if you save them as left overs in the refrigerator as well .
end question
start question
When making fried rice , how does the amount of heat affect the taste of the food ?
It 's an issue of thermodynamics . When you 're cooking food , the food cools itself off through evaporative cooling and the energy being used to cause chemical changes in the food ( eg , caramelizing sugars ) . If you have too much food in the pan , the balance is overwhelmed by evaporative cooling , and thus you can only get to the boiling point of water . To change the equation , you need to do one of the following : Use a more powerful heat source . Cook less food at a time Reduce the amount of moisture in the food before cooking it . You 'll often see advice for # 3 -- such as patting dry steak or chicken before grilling it , as without it , you wo n't get good browning . You ca n't do that when you 're dealing with sauces . You can try cooking less , but with sauces you cause more problems -- if the pan size is the same , the area for evaporation is the same , so you do n't really improve the balance . With a sufficiently sized burner , you can actually heat sauces above the boiling point , as you 're putting in energy faster than evaporation can cool it . This which will change the chemical reactions that occur , thus the resulting chemical compounds and the resulting flavor of the food .
The right size is important , because baking times are designed for a specific batter thickness . If a recipe is meant for a 26 cm pan and you pour the whole batter in a 18 cm pan , it will be much thicker and the middle wo n't get done before the top burns . That is why high cakes are made by stacking layers , not by baking one high cake . You can pour a batch of batter into multiple small cups and have it turn out all right as long as the height stays more or less the same as it would have been in the large pan . My advice is to calculate the area of the pan given in the recipe and the area of your silicone cups , so you can know how many cups to use . You do n't have to be completely precise , for the average cake it is not too terrible if you have + -0.5 cm difference in batter height . If the difference is larger , you can still get good results , but you should adjust the baking time . The resulting cupcakes will still have the thickness of the normal cake , or somewhat more if you use less cups and bake accordingly longer . I would advise against trying to bake high-rise muffins from normal cake recipes . Even a sponge cake recipe might need some adjustment of the amount of baking powder before working as a high muffin . Other types of cake , especially the more exotic ones ( genoise , flourless cakes ) are unlikely to bake well if you fill them into deep cups .
No , it 's not true . It will not change the way they cook . Noodle cooking times vary by what they 're made out of and by thickness , not by the length of the noodles . The kids and I seem to prefer eating shorter noodles and dodging the hassle of spinning the noodles , but when there 's company over we tend to do it the classic " right " way . No difference in taste .
Use only good beef , salt and pepper . The beef should be a good fatty cut , with a ratio of 80 % meat , 20 % fat . Chuck is ideal . Any good butcher should grind it to order for you . You need to keep the ground meat as cold as possible , to prevent the fat melting out of it before you cook it . Do not salt the beef prior to shaping , just use pepper . Shape your burgers , then put them in the fridge for a couple of hours . Generously salt the outside of the burgers about 1 hour before cooking . Get a good pan ( preferably a cast iron griddle ) really , really , really hot . Brush one side of the burger with vegetable oil , then slap it on the grill . DO NOT PRESS IT WITH THE SPATULA , EVER . You squeeze out all the juice . Turn the burger and cook the other side . Timing will depend on how you like your burger . A good way of testing doneness is to insert a thin metal skewer into the centre of the burger from one side ( not the top ) , leave it for a few seconds , then take it out and touch it carefully to your lip . If it 's hot , it 's just about done . Or if you have a good digital thermometer , use that .
More head = less carbonation , which will change the mouth-feel of the drink , albeit largely imperceptibly for most people ( myself included ) . Less carbonation will also change the actual perception of flavour ; it will taste sweeter , mostly .
I was able to track down the dish . It is called Lahuhe . There is a picture of it here : <URL> Thank you to everyone for trying to help me out .
I found a quote from <URL> One thing you may not want to do with a press pot , especially a larger model , is use beans roasted less than 2 or 3 days before . What , am I crazy ? Nope . There 's a problem with ultra fresh beans and it is called " bloom " . When beans are only a day or two off the roast , they contain heaps of Co2 . Heaps of it , I tell you . That Co2 will translate into a massive bloom of brown suds on top of your press pot , possibly overflowing , but also making it easier for big particulate matter ( your ground coffee ) to hop and skip over the top of the filter portion when you first apply it . Bloom looks cool , but can make using a press pot more difficult . The poor filtering part sounds questionable to me , so I googled it and found a few bloom-related comments <URL> . It seems like some people start timing their soak time only after they see bloom . This seems like the real reason to me . I know for sure that the air content in ground substances can vary significantly : one cup of flour can contain double the volume of another if one is loosely sifted and the other is compacted . The above quote is accurate about that in my opinion . Apply this logic to coffee and in order to produce an accurate , general recipe for how long some compounds take to come out of coffee grounds , you need to factor out a variable between coffee grounds : how much air is in the grindings . Maybe the first small pour will saturate with coffee compounds , or drop in temperature quickly , reducing how much it can extract from the grounds . Once it squeezes out all the air , the rest of the water is poured in to do the real extraction work .
There are indeed different varieties of sorrel , * but they 're both/all high ( though I ca n't determine how high ) in the substance of concern , which is oxalic acid . This acid is found in lots of other green leafy vegetables , notably spinach and parsley , and is the reason that you should n't eat rhubarb leaves . ** It seems to have a reasonably high expected lethal dose ; the internet echo chamber puts it at 600 mg/kg , which would mean eating pounds and pounds of whatever leaf you 've got . The necessary amount to cause sickness is obviously much lower , however . There 's also a long-term risk for kidney stones -- oxalic acid combines or reacts with calcium to form calcium oxalate , which is a major component of those stones ( and this is the mechanism for more immediate poisoning , whether lethal or not ) . I have also seen reports of simple mouth and digestive irritation , again caused by the calcium salt . Unfortunately , it seems that cooking does not destroy oxalic acid . It may be possible to reduce its presence by boiling and discarding the water , however . It 's unclear to me whether this is because the acid itself dissolves into the water , or whether the oxalates ( Harold McGee says that the potassium and sodium salts are water-soluble ) form during cooking and are dissolved . In all , I think the only recommendation that can be made is simple moderation . It 's incredibly unlikely that you 'll kill anyone with a salad , but do n't eat the stuff in large amounts every day . * " Common " ( looks like elongated spinach ) and " wood " ( looks a bit like clover , but the leaves are cardiod ) are the two that I 'm most familiar with . ** Although it seems that there 's possibly at least one other poisonous substance in the leaves .
Costs to consider when making jam : One-Time Costs Pressure canner Water-bath canner Large pot for making jam in Strainer ( can use a colander-type item or something like a Squeez-o ) Jar rack that goes inside the canner Jar lifter Funnel Jars Freezer-safe containers Jar rings Recurring Costs Jar lids Fruit ( you can often get pretty cheap fruit in bulk from an orchard ) Pectin Sugar Spices Energy usage ( stove ) Compare costs for freezer jam ( no canner required ) , pressure-canned jam ( pressure canners are expensive ) , and water-bath canned jam . Also compare for recipes that do vs do not contain pectin . If you can get a lot of the one-time cost items free ( from grandma 's attic , most likely ) , and if you can get the recurring cost items on sale ( or from your own garden ) , then you can probably come close to commercially priced jam . Personally , here 's what I look at : A ) The cost of the item I would normally buy at the store - generic , cheap brand . Let 's call that price X. B ) The cost of the item I wish I could buy at the store - the really good stuff . That price is usually about 2x to 3x . Then , my goal is to be cheaper than 2x . Another Cost Consideration If you give homemade jam as holiday gifts , spending less than you otherwise would on a gift , there 's additional savings for you .
It 's been a while since I made sushi but 2 tablespoons does sound a little on the ridiculous side . Various other recipes use similar amounts ( to each other ) : <URL> : 1 tsp salt ( for 1/2 cup vinegar and 4 tbsp sugar ) <URL> : 1 tbsp kosher salt ( for 2 tbsp vinegar and 2 tbsp sugar ) <URL> : 1 tsp salt ( for 1/2 cup vinegar and 1/2 cup sugar ) <URL> : 1/2 tsp salt ( for 2 tbsp vinegar and 1 tbsp sugar ) In fact , although sushi rice recipes tend to vary significantly with respect to the proportions of rice , vinegar , and sugar , they are all remarkably consistent on the amount of salt . The Alton Brown recipe calls for a tablespoon , but 1 tbsp of kosher salt is in fact equivalent to 1-2 tsp of table or sea salt . Even on the Epicurious recipe , the 1/2 tsp is only for 1 cup of rice - you 'd double it to the same 1 tsp for the standard 2 cups . I assume that the recipe you 're looking at must have meant 2 tsp and not tbsp , but I think even that is too much ; I would stick to the 1 tsp used in almost every sushi rice recipe I 've ever seen .
If you 're planning to smoke your sausages , natural casings will allow for greater smoke penetration than many non-natural casings , and they wo n't impart any odd flavors of their own to the meat . That said , when you first open a container of natural casings , they may have a strong smell because of gas build-up ; let them air out ( in the fridge ! ) and they 'll be fine .
Working in restaurants similar things to this happened a lot . Our quick fix that usually did the trick was 50/50 vinegar and water and boil it off as mentioned above . Lemon juice or even orange should work instead of vinegar for a better scent . At a guess , the more acidy fluids help break down any splatter that may have gone into the vents . Hint : this is also great to do just before cleaning the microwave , even baked on splatter comes off easily after the steam .
There is one reason I might do this . If the core is green , that is starting to form a sprout . I cut that out as it can be bitter . Otherwise I do n't know why one would do that .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
TFD 's answer is true : the most likely change is the reduction in some astringent flavors . I would just add that people have been brewing black tea for iced tea for many years at or near room temperature ( e.g. , the traditional " sun tea " method ) , or even in the refrigerator ( " cold-brewed " tea ) . The flavor notes which come out are different , but a lot of people still find the tea produced to be acceptable or even preferable to " hot-brewed " tea . Granted , these processes are used mostly for tea meant to be consumed at cooler temperatures . But my point is that those who insist that black tea must be brewed as close to 100C as possible are just brewing one possible " version " of tea from those leaves . In my own experiments , I 've found that certain black teas taste good when brewed at lower temperatures for a long time , though others end up " unbalanced " in some way . ( Sometimes , they simply taste " weaker " for some reason , even when still brewed longer to take into account the lower temperature . Sometimes this can be fixed by adding more tea leaves per cup ; other times this still creates an imbalance . ) I could cite a number of studies which show the various amounts of certain chemical components in tea and how fast they dissolve at various temperatures . But those really wo n't take into account the balance of individual flavor components in a particular black tea . In this case , I think it 's really a matter of personal judgment to see whether your particular tea tastes fine to you brewed at a lower temperature .
It comes from two different measurements , typical wine bottle size , and government alcohol regulations Typical wine bottles are 750 ml , and this divides exactly into five or six servings of 150 or 125 ml ( thanks peter ) . So many traditional wine glass serves are " exactly " 150 or 125 ml ( ~ 5 or 4 oz ) depending in which country you live in For typical government regulation , a standard drink is ; a 100 ml glass of table wine , or a 330 ml can of beer , or a 30 ml glass of straight spirits . Each of these contains on average 10 g of alcohol . So many liquor licensing guidelines recommend the serving of wine by 100 ml ( 3.5 oz ) standard drink sizes Governments will use this to produce such amazing guidelines such as : In most western countries the standard drink range is from 8 to 12 g of alcohol , except in the USA where it is super-sized to 14 g Update ; references from <URL> <URL> <URL>
Absolutely you can ! It 's a popular choice with Chinese and Indian flavor profiles . You can just treat it exactly like you would any other leftover rice . It 's a lovely ingredient to work with . The nutty Basmati flavor works beautifully however you choose to season fried rice .
According to the crumb recipe on the Epicurious <URL> , the crumb mixture should be the texture of wet sand and then packed down on the mound of filling : 1 cup all purpose flour 1/2 cup sugar 1/4 cup ( packed ) golden brown sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon salt 6 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter , cut into 1/2-inch cubes Blend first 5 ingredients in processor . Add chilled butter cubes ; using on/off turns , cut in until mixture resembles wet sand . ( After mounding the filling in the crust , pack topping over and around apples . Bake pie on baking sheet in pre-heated 400-degree oven , until topping is golden , about 40 minutes ( cover top with foil if browning too quickly ) . Reduce oven temperature to 350 ° F. Bake until apples in center are tender when pierced and filling is bubbling thickly at edges , about 45 minutes longer . Cool until warm , about 1 hour . Serve with ice cream .
I 'm not so lucky as to be able to get whole raw milk & hellip ; Wait , then there 's a flaw in your premise . Check the label . Any milk treated using high-heat processes like UHT , pasteurization or ultra-pasteurized milk does n't sour like it used to in your grandmother 's days ; it spoils & hellip ; goes rotten . Spoiled milk is not the same as soured milk . The ultra-pasturized milk sold in the supermarket is essentially a dead product , with little to no live bacteria . When it goes bad , it rots and should be thrown out ( or you can <URL> with it ) . Modern industrial pasteurization kills the " good " bacteria that once made sour milk a wonderful thing for cooking and making bread and cheese . Substituting " Sour Milk " If you have a recipe calling for sour milk , put a teaspoon of vinegar in a cup of fresh milk and let it sit for a few minutes . That 's about the best you can do if you do not have access to raw milk .
Baking soda seems to work well for me , but the best thing is to get rid of old food that is causing the smell , and seal strong-smelling foods in airtight containers .
end question
start question
Is there a magic ingredient that keeps ice-cream soft ?
Yes , actually , there are two magic ingredients : <URL> and <URL> . Guar gum is a thickener , but in small quantities can also prevent the growth of ice crystals which would cause the ice cream to harden into icicles . Xanthan gum is a stabilizer which helps keep air ( called overrun ) in the mixture . Air is generally churned into ice cream by ice cream machines , but it wo n't stay that way without the stabilizer .
I usually notice when cutting onions and tomatoes . With a very sharp knife cutting an onion does n't cause much tears at all . As it dulls though it does more crushing than slicing which releases more gas into the air , which makes you cry more . Ripe tomatoes help because they are so tender . If it becomes difficult to slice a tomato without crushing it , your knife is too dull . A well used , properly cared for knife should require sharpening every 6-18 months , depending on usage . Mine get sharpened yearly . You may find it beneficial to read these related questions , and their answers : <URL> <URL> <URL>
For a substance to burn , it must first reach its ignition point . For it to keep burning , it must reach its fire point . The ignition point of a 40 % ABV liquid such as brandy is 26ºC / 79ºF , and the fire point is approximately 10ºC higher than that . What this means in practical terms is that you need to heat the alcohol a little first before you add it to the ice cream . The simplest way to do this is to put the alcohol in a ladle and heat it over the hob - it wo n't need much as 36ºC is not a great deal over room temperature . Then light it carefully with a long match , and pour it around your ice cream - if you 've got it warm enough it should keep burning until the alcohol is consumed .
I assume we are talking about a variety of the Eastern European treat called Oblatne ( or a variety of that name ) ? Which consists of five to eight layers of store-bought wafers ( not " waffles " - in some languages it 's the same term for both , I know ) , " glued together " by a fatty or caramelly cream , pressed for a few hours and cut into little diamonds ? Like below : <URL> <URL> There are two main methods to create the cream , one based on condensed milk , dulce de leche or caramel , the other on butter , margarine or shortening . Often with an addition of nuts , chocolate and a dash of alcohol . Often , some raw eggs are included as well , so take the appropriate measures for these recipes . The common trait is low humidity in the filling , because otherwise the wafers become soggy and - worst case - could even disintegrate . Recipe requests are off-topic here , but a creative use of the terms wafer , cake , country of origin or some neighboring country , oblatne or oblate and your preferred filling ingredients in your favourite seach engine should set you off in the right direction .
Ice cream is an emulsion and in it , you have air , fat , and ice . The smaller the ice crystals , the smoother the icecream and better chance of achieving a velvety , creamy , smooth texture . The flavor is also elevated given the smaller crystals . Put it in the freezer , and ice crystals start to grow bigger and you lose the benefits . Also , colder temperature inhibits the taste buds ability to pick up sweetness . At liquid nitro cooled temperatures , you can get an explosion of flavour as the icecream warms up and melts in your mouth and the taste buds start to pick up on sweetness . Finally , aside from a show , it 's much much faster to make icecream with LN2 than in a regular machine . Seconds versus 30-45minutes . There are hazardous issues with liquid nitrogen and handling . As a starting point , look into <URL> .
You could serve it with a lemon curd tart , making sure to keep down the amount of sugar in the curd . Or just some lemon sorbet , that would also go well I think .
Yes , it depends on brand , humidity , etc. . My local variety is 1:4 to 1:4.5 ( polenta : water ) to get to that softness level Add nothing else until you have the polenta at the desired consistency and softness
I do n't think I 've ever even had hot buttered rum , but I can take a stab at some of your questions : 1 part ice cream and 2-3 parts boiling water will still average out pretty hot . If the ice cream is at , say , -20 to -10 C , that 'll get you in the 60-70C range initially , which is I think fairly normal for hot drinks . And of course , if you keep it in the refrigerator instead , your drink will be hotter ! I suspect mixing ice cream with butter will help it all mix together better in the end , by helping disperse the fat . Ground spices are n't going to need a ton of steeping . I imagine the boiling water would be enough , and if not , the pre-cooking could easily compensate . And since some recipes just have nutmeg sprinkled on top , it sounds like steeping is n't necessarily the goal . If you 're really aiming for spiced hot buttered rum , you 'll probably want more spices than those recipes , and perhaps to cook them briefly with the butter . If you intend to freeze the " batter " , including ice cream will help keep it soft enough to scoop/slice . If it were just butter and sugar , it 'd get quite hard in the freezer . Yes , the milk/cream content of the ice cream would make the drink a little creamier - but I do n't know whether hot buttered rum should be a bit creamy . It sounds like it 'd be fine either way - personal preference , perhaps ?
I spoke with the farm that sold me the kohlrabi ; they have seen people make something akin to mashed rutabaga by boiling kohlrabi for ages and ages , so it gets about that soft . Note that mashed rutabaga is apparently still firmer than mashed potatoes , but obviously soft enough to mash into a pulp . For a stir-fry , they suggested a match-stick shape rather than medallions ; my second such stir-fry found them to have about the texture of halfway-cooked onions , soft enough not to crunch anymore but firm enough to hold their shape on a fork .
Whipped cream is whipping cream after it has been whipped . Whipping cream is just cream with at least 30 % fat content ( that would be called Light Whipping Cream in the US ) . Heavy Whipping Cream contains at least 36 % fat and up to 40 % and rarely ( in the US ) even higher . Until these creams are whipped , they are just liquid . After they are whipped , they 're fluffy . A way to know that whipped cream is " done " is that it holds " peaks " , like in the first picture . Higher fat cream will thicken more readily , and hold its structure longer . Other countries use different terms for various levels of fat in cream . <URL> Whipped Cream : Whipping cream :
The most prominent flavors in authentic paella are pimenton ( smoked paprika ) , saffron , a sofrito of onion and tomato , garlic , and the broth .
You can eat even shell . Ground shell is used in French <URL> to thicken the soup and make it more flavored .
There are two levels to this question . If you are using modern whipping cream as a starting point , then the trick for a longer lasting whipped cream is stabilization . If this is some farm bought milk you are skimming the cream from , then you have the additional problem that your cream is not fatty enough . Modern creams are concentrated with a centrifuge . To get good whipped cream , whip it cold until it <URL> . Stabilize the whipped cream by hanging it in a cheese cloth in the refrigerator or by adding gelatin.To use the gelatin , dissolve 2 teaspoons of unflavored gelatin into 2 tablespoons of cold water . Work out the lumps . After the gelatin expands , mix in a quarter cup of cream and heat the mixture to dissolve the gelatin . Cool over ice and mix a bit . Complete 2 cups of cream and proceed as you would to finish your whipped cream .
Ca n't comment on the nutritional side of things , but the main reason I can think of for not always including it is that it has a slightly different flavour . A much more intense lemon flavour is provided by the zest while the juice has the more tart elements ( and of course water ) . If you 're just interested in avoiding waste , you can freeze the zest .
You can absolutely do this . I do it in <URL> , for example . A good trick to boost the flavor even farther is to add non-fat milk powder to the butter as it browns , to supply even more protein for the Maillard reactions .
Almost any normal sorbet recipe will contain a decent amount of sugar , and strawberries are no exception . I 'd guess probably 1/2 -2 / 3 cup per pound of strawberries . Use a substitute if you have an aversion - honey , agave , raw cane sugar , whatever you prefer . ( Of course , anything liquid is going to contain some water , and cause a bit of ice , but it 's still doable . ) A sorbet without any extra sugar , even when frozen normally in an ice cream maker , is going to end up with a very icy texture , which will probably keep you from experiencing the flavor as much . The sugar helps soften it . The other common way to soften a sorbet is alcohol . Rosé wine ( thank you , David Lebovitz ) works quite well in a strawberry sorbet . Vodka can be your go-to liquor for any impromptu sorbet with other fruits , since it 'll add alcohol without any flavors that clash . Beyond that , either look for recipes , or look for mixed drinks containing the fruit you 're using . You might also be having problems simply because your strawberries are n't that great . Did you freeze them , or were they storebought ? If you bought the strawberries yourself , you 'd know they were decent before freezing , while not all storebought frozen fruit is as flavorful . Finally , it 's possible that your frozen strawberries collected some extra water in the form of frost , which then makes your sorbet icier . If there are obvious big chunks you could scrape them off .
If you 're buying bacon at the store , and trying to reduce the actual sodium in the product you 've just purchased - you 're out of luck . Like most things , you ca n't un-salt it . You can reduce the flavor , but in your case , the sodium is still there . Alternative options include : Buy reduced sodium bacon Make reduced sodium bacon Use less bacon , in order to reduce the total sodium intake .
The softness of ice cream is going to depend on a variety of factors : Use of gums and other binding agents , amount of sugar , the amount of fat , and especially the amount of " overrun " ( air ) that is churned into it during the freezing process . Less expensive ice creams will usually have a softer " chewier " texture than premium ice creams due to more gums and a great amount of air being churned into it to increase volume . More air = more volume = more yield for the same amount of ingredients used .
Dilute heavily by using a very small portion of peppers per dish Allow cooking time for the pepper flavor to permeate the dish before adding more . It 's not like black pepper where the taste spreads instantly . Remove the seeds and membranes holding them , as this reduces spiciness considerably Cut peppers very finely or puree so there are n't any large pieces to deliver a shocker in the final dish Wear gloves when handling the peppers If you do n't use gloves , wash your hands well before touching your eyes , mouth , or other " sensitive regions . " AND FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS GOOD AND HOLY , DO NOT FRY OR SAUTE THE PEPPERS . No , seriously . The last one is a mistake you only make once , and should be on a warning label with all store-bought chilis . The capsaicin somehow becomes volatile when heated enough , and the result is like filling your entire domicile with pepper spray . I am ashamed to say that the last two cautions are drawn purely from personal experience . It 's not the kind of " hot date " you want to share with an ( un ) lucky person , believe me .
Coupling design matters more than material . If you make your coupling short and thin , concentrating all the force in a small area , it will strip even it 's metal . Conversely , a well-designed coupling is longer , so the strain is spread over a large area . I have a Cuisinart CSB-76 hand ( immersion ) blender , and it has handled ice numerous times without any problems . It has a plastic coupling , but it is a good 3 cm long to spread out the force over more material . If I recall correctly , the professional-grade Vitamix blender also uses a plastic coupling , but with careful engineering to prevent problems . It is now common to advertise kitchen appliances based on their motor 's power ( 700 watts in this case ) , but many of these appliances will have mechanical failures if called on to deliver that much power . I suspect that you 'd be better served to look for a lower-power blender from a reputable brand with good consumer reviews . I do n't think the professional-grade immersion blenders I 've used in restaurant kitchens are rated to more than 400 watts . Personally , I recommend the Cuisinart CSB-76 , and have never had a case where I needed more than its 200W .
end question
start question
What factors do I need to consider to figure out if a particular set of toppings will work well on risotto ?
So risotto is pretty much a blank canvas , much like say rice or pasta . So your first concern is simply to pick ingredients that go with each other . For example : tomato &amp; corn risotto , good . Tomato and chocolate risotto : bad . Second , you may want to choose a broth , cheese , and optional wine that goes well with your choice of main ingredients . Third , because risotto is Italian in origin , the most certain combinations will be those classic Mediterranean flavors . You are n't going to go wrong with say asparagus and olives , or artichokes , peas and lemon . When you start making Thai risottos , you are farther out on a limb . Finally , much of the pleasure of a risotto is in the rice itself , when properly prepared . That pleasure is fairly delicate in nature , so for maximum enjoyment you should choose reasonably delicate ingredients and/or use them in relatively small quantities .
The answer is that it will depend on your personal preference for the strength of your coffee , the beans themselves , the type of brewing , and so on . Many coffee bean bags have a reference on the side of them . The standard guideline for most medium roast coffee bean bags is 2 tablespoons per 6 fl . oz . ( 1 cup in your liquid measuring cup ) . The Specialty Coffee Association of America has some interesting info on this , per this <URL> . What the Specialty Coffee Association of America ( SCAA ) has to say : A cup is defined as 6 ounces of water before brewing . This will produce 5.33 ounces of brewed coffee . Or 125 ml &amp; 110 ml for Euro style coffee makers The SCAA defines 10 grams or .36 oz per cup as the proper measure for brewed coffee if using the American standards . If using Euro standards the measure is 7 grams per 125 ml . To further confuse things I will add a few more measures : 3.75 oz per 1/2 gallon 55 grams per liter 2.25 gallons per 1 lb . If you want to know more check the SCAA 's web page at www.scaa.org .
Recipes for preserving tend to be very specific . They 're calibrated to balance factors like pH and sugar content in the final recipes , and of course to minimize the risk of spoilage . In general , you should always follow the steps as written in your recipe . What I 've generally observed is that jam-type recipes do n't always include the final boiling step because the jam is already cooked ( edit : and because <URL> , the sugar content is generally high enough to be inhospitable to bacteria ) . That differs from canning fresh fruits and vegetables which are largely raw . The purpose of the boiling step here is to kill off pathogens before they get a chance to settle in and spoil the contents , as no matter how well you clean them , there are likely to be some spores , bacteria , etc. remaining . Even a tiny initial population can grow and spoil your preserves over the length of time they 'll be put away . So , initial sterilization is always required to clean the jars themselves . The second boil <URL> the contents . If you 've already done this as part of your preparation , as with a jam , then it most likely is n't required . It probably wo n't hurt , especially if you plan to put up your jams for an extended period of time ( i.e. months or years ) but you 'll have to weigh the convenience of skipping that step against the potential risk of spoilage . That said , let me state again for the record that if your specific recipe says to include the final boil , then there 's likely a very good reason , and you should follow that instruction .
It 's not so much the taste as the texture . If they have n't been sauted first , the onions stay relatively crunchy during the rest of the cooking . The same is true of the garlic , but you 'd usually have cut the garlic into much smaller pieces so it does n't take as long to soften up , hence kicking the onion off first and adding the garlic a bit later .
Yes , preheating warns up the entire interior of the oven which is important for keeping the air hot such as when you open the door . It helps the oven bounce back to full heat much sooner . If you do n't preheat , it will take several minutes before the oven reaches proper cooking temps , and interfere with even heating . If you want to see the difference most dramatically , bake some chocolate chips . First without any preheating and then when those are supposed the be done , do another batch and bake them for the same amount of time . If you are baking something for an hour or more , it may not make much difference , but shorter baking times can be dramatically affected .
I 'm not exactly sure why you 're trying to brine then boil ; you should be able to simply boil your chicken in salty stock and get plenty of salt into it . It wo n't take nearly as long as brining , because things happen faster in boiling water . Assuming you boil for any significant length of time , much of the salt will indeed come out into the cooking liquid , and you 'll end up with your soup approximately as salty as the chicken . ( If the chicken is in large pieces , this of course only applies to the part the brining and cooking liquids can actually reach . )
It may already be an implicit assumption , but I think that time to cook is probably not as important as how to cook . While the power setting does affect the time to cook , the importance of time is to control how hot the parts of the food get . As with all cooking , there is a need to control temperature . Running the microwave at less than full power allows time for the heat to be conducted from the hot parts to the cool parts . It is similar to searing vs. sauteeing . I think that the accuracy of most microwave oven 's power settings are good enough ( my own testing shows about 10 % ) . I would be more concerned about how I wanted the item cooked . Some examples : When I want to reheat things like a thick soup , I run the microwave at full power for a short period of time , stir , and run the microwave again . Stirring the concoction distributes the heat faster than the conduction process . When I want to defrost frozen foods ( think meat ) , I use the lowest power setting . This prevents the edges of the food from getting cooked .
If your jam has at least 1:1 ratio ( 1 kg of sugar per kg of fruit ) or more , you do not have to can it . Then it is so overwhelmingly sweet that bacteria can not live in it . If the jam has less sugar ( 1:2 are popular , 1:3 are found sometimes ) , then you have to either can it , or keep it in the fridge and consume it within a few days , similar to any other cooked food . Else , you are colonizing bacteria in your jam , and at some point , some of them will happen to be pathogenic and cause some unpleasant disease in whoever eats the jam . Canning is a process in which the jam is closed against any new bacteria ( that 's why you have to close the jar hermetically ) and then heated enough that most old bacteria are killed . After canning , you can keep the closed jars at room temperature without any new bacteria developing .
There are a few tools you should have that are out of the ordinary in a typical American kitchen : <URL> - It 's really the only way to make maki ( rolls ) . Pro tip : when you use it , put it inside of a large zip-loc bag . This helps prevent the rice sticking to the mat . <URL> - This is essential in helping the rice turn out properly . The one I linked includes a free mat . I do n't own this particular brand ; I bought mine from an asian grocery store near me for like $ 30 , it came with a paddle . If you do n't want to commit to this large uni-tasker then I recommend using an equally large shallow-ish plastic bowl/dish . The sushi chef that taught me said plastic was OK , but to avoid glass or metal . <URL> - A quality rice cooker makes life amazingly easier . I own the one linked and it is amazing . I use it for cooking all of my rice . The quality of Zojirushi is simply unsurpassed and it quickly pays for itself . The single most important thing is a very sharp knife . It makes cutting the maki SO much easier . I ca n't stress this enough . A chef 's knife is just fine , but it should be well cared for and very sharp . For beginners <URL> is by far the easiest to make . You simply shape a small amount of rice in the palm of your hand and slap a piece of fish or other seafood on top of it . Cutting the fish for nigiri is an artform and can not be adequately conveyed here , but if you just hack out a thin piece of the right size it will taste fine . Tuna and salmon are relatively cheap cuts to use for this . For maki I suggest starting with spicy tuna rolls and California rolls . All you need for a California roll is : avocado , cucumber , and imitation crab meat . For spicy tuna mix you need : tuna , <URL> , and <URL> ( or <URL> ) . You may also want some <URL> and/or <URL> roe for the outside of your rolls .
i am celiac , ideally you should clean your entire kitchen , clean out your silverware and utensil drawers and wash all utensils in the dishwasher . Wipe all surfaces and sinks with bleach wipes . Scrub all pots and pans , to remove gluten films then wash in dishwasher . give all dishes to be used a run through the dishwasher . off limit items are , seasoned pans ( cast iron , or porcelain ) , earthenware , pasta pots , strainers , toasters , cooking stones , wood spoons or utensils , cutting boards , blenders and crockpots . to avoid contamination use fresh mayo , mustard , peanut butter jars , etc. . do not use any ingredients such as sugar that may have been contaminated with flour from use while baking . because you are not familiar with ingredients that contain gluten , use only pure ingredients if you are cooking for your celiac guest . avoid spice blends . <URL> hope this was a bit of help .
Short summary : views on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Part of the difficulty with this question is the very definition of the word offal and what it implies . First , a little mini-history , taken partly from the Oxford English Dictionary . Offal is literally derived from off + fall , i.e. , that which " falls off " or is discarded during some sort of process ; the word entered English around the year 1400 . This sense is rare in modern English , but it still occurs in some manufacturing processes , e.g. , woodchips that are discarded from milling . In the 1400s , it was applied in the same sense to butchers , who initially included only those things which were cut off/out of the carcass and truly considered inedible or useless from a culinary perspective ( e.g. , the contents of the intestines , which would contain the animal 's waste and would rarely be consumed because of the potential for disease , parasites , etc. ) . Gradually , this definition expanded over the years to include elements that butchers might discard or separate from the primary " meat " ( i.e. , mostly muscle ) . As the OED defines it : The edible parts collectively which are cut off in preparing the carcass of an animal for food . In early use applied mainly to the entrails ; later extended to include the head , tail , and internal organs such as the heart , liver , etc. . Given that many of these " discarded " or separated items were not considered as desirable for eating , the word gradually acquired a negative connotation , which the OED first finds in 1581 : The parts of a slaughtered or dead animal considered unfit for human consumption ; decomposing flesh , carrion . The OED adds that this last sense is " Sometimes used contemptuously , " as in the first 1581 quotation that references " dirtie tripes and offalls . " In answering this question , there seems to be a conflict between two possible interpretations about the word offal : on the one hand , there 's the " offal " that 's discarded because it 's truly inedible or difficult to use in a culinary sense , but then there 's the " offal " that 's merely separated out because some people or some cultures find it repulsive . That latter " offal " is still generally used by somebody , whether it 's eaten by people who do n't find it repulsive ( and might even consider it a delicacy ) eaten by poor people who ca n't afford more desirable food ( as referenced in the question when oxtail was given to " laborers " ) ground up , processed , and disguised in processed foods given to animals to eat For a recent perspective , I quote from the book Offal : A Global History ( 2013 ) by Nina Edwards : What might the term " offal " include ? The Chambers Dictionary 's definition sounds a little less than enthusiastic : " waste or rejected parts esp . entrails , heart , liver , kidney , tongue etc. : anything worthless or unfit for use . " Other edible innards not specified here include connective tissue , bone marrow , lungs , spleen , sweetbreads , testicles , udders , tripe , heads and the features thereof ( brains , eyes , cheeks , snout or muzzle and ears ) , skin , tails , trotters , lard and blood . Offal is sometimes thought of as inner organs and viscera alone , but I include all edible exterior parts . Including all edible ( yet undesirable by some ) parts seems reasonable in the definition , given that even as early as 1660 the OED has a quotation lumping in sheep trotters with " offal . " But in some places the word carries a distinct connotation of " organ meat " specifically . In any case , as said at the beginning , the perspectives on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Most cultures have entire classes of animals that are considered inedible or repulsive , whether pork in Jewish or Islamic traditions or almost all insects in various Western cultures . The concept of " offal " is just an extension of communal dietary guidelines or preferences to the avoidance of specific parts of animals . It 's also important to note that there are various reasons for rejecting various foods . Sometimes foods have unusual textures or flavors , but just as often they are rejected because of the associations of specific body parts ( e.g. , feet or snouts or tails being " dirty , " tongues because of their associations with animal feeding , genitals or reproductive organs for puritanical reasons , etc. ) . Or , in some cases the food perhaps resembles actual animal " parts " too much for our modern culture that is often divorced from butchering : in the era of the chicken " nugget " ( or " boneless skinless chicken breast " ) and ground beef , an actual tongue or tail or ear tends to remind the eater that the food is not from some anonymous cut of " meat " but rather from an actual animal . In some of these cases , the actual meat may not have a flavor or texture very different from the rest of the animal , but some people still reject it on the basis of its appearance or kn
It does n't sound like you 're doing anything wrong . I 've found risotto to be one of those recipes that can vary up to 50 % ( usually less ) from what the author calls for and still turn out great . I 've even used recipes that call for " 2-4 " cups of broth . You may be overcooking it though , <URL> . It 's not uncommon for people to overcook this until you have a mushy risotto .
That is wax , it 's done to help keep the moisture in the root . Turnips are also . You know it 's getting along when it gets soft and spongy or when the skin starts to wrinkle , same with turnips , beets , parsnips , carrots ... You pretty much can tell whether they are good or not in exactly the same ways . Are the firm and crisp or soft , flabby and spongy ?
They should be fine . We sometimes do it in the morning for dinner and it gives no problem . Just make sure all the potatoes are covered with liquid , or those pieces would discolour .
When it comes to pairing specific ingredients , the general thinking seems to be that ingredients that share " flavour notes " in significant quantity will go well together . In practice it goes much deeper than that , because in addition to taste , foods have very specific and recognizable aromas which affect the perception of flavour ; wine is mostly sweet and sour , but you would n't substitute ordinary grape juice for it ; the aroma of the alcohol is unmistakable , and even between different wines you will have varying levels of " fruitiness " or " woodiness " . But let 's start with tastes : Chocolate and coffee go well together because they share characteristic bitter notes . The roasting of the beans also makes a difference ; the pairing works best when the roasting is enough to thermally degrade the bitterness without losing too much sweetness due to caramelization . This emphasizes the sweetness and de-emphasizes the bitterness and acidity of the coffee , making it closer to the flavour profile of chocolate . A traditional stock combines a mirepoix ( onions , carrots , celery ) with meat ( well , bones ) , both very high in umami . The end product may have varying notes of bitterness or saltiness from the vegetables but is basically one huge kick of umami . A lot of people also enjoy peanut butter and bacon together , which combines the significant umami and saltiness in both foods . Beets and sour cream are a traditional ( or so I 'm told ) Polish dish , both obviously sharing strong sour notes . Often chives are added , which are mildly pungent in nature and pungency tends to go with sour or bitter ( since it is created by sulfur which is perceived as sour , bitter , and also " metallic " ) . This tends to work reasonably well for basic pairings , but another very strong element of this is balancing all of the different flavours in a dish . Peanut butter and jam do n't seem to have much in common , flavour-wise . But when you combine them together in a sandwich you have the high umami and saltiness of the peanut butter , the sweet and slightly sour notes of the jam , and the hints of bitterness and/or sourness in the bread . Together you have strong notes of all five tastes and the result is appealing to most people . Five Spice is usually a mixture of cinnamon ( sweet ) , star anise ( mildly sweet and bitter ) , fennel ( mildly sweet and fairly savoury ) , ground cloves ( pungent and somewhat bitter ) , and Szechuan peppercorns ( salty and pungent with a sour aftertaste ) . The quantities are generally adjusted to balance out the tastes ; for example , fennel is the only really savoury ingredient so Five Spice tends to have more of that than other ingredients . Anyway , this is used all over Chinese cuisine as a sort of " wonder spice " . A really good roast chicken starts off high in umami and is then brined ( salty ) , buttered ( sweet ) , and roasted which involves the Maillard reaction ( bitter ) . This is missing sour , which is why a lot of cooks will throw a few lemon slices in there . But truthfully , even though this all sounds plausible , it 's really so much more complicated than that . Even though there 's some science at work here , the five tastes are a little like the four elements or humours ; it 's an almost archaic way of thinking about food chemistry , because our mouths and noses can detect so much more than that . If you want to see just how little we actually really know about flavour today , check out <URL> on Khymos , linked to from one of the related questions . There you 'll see totally nonsensical combinations like chocolate and garlic or mint and mustard that actually - with the right preparation of course - produce pretty pleasant flavours/aromas . The truth is people are still gathering data on this and we do n't really know , exactly , what makes some flavours work together . At least we 're starting to approach this scientifically and actually experiment and document this stuff , but there 's not enough data to form a coherent theory yet . Check the answers to my <URL> and the other question on <URL> if you want detailed data on which flavour pairings can " work " , although you might not get much of an explanation for why .
According to <URL> : 130-140 ° F - Fats begin to melt and render ( liquefy ) . This is a slow process and can take hours . Note : this is 55-60 C . The speed of the process will increase with temperature .
The most significant factors are probably : Muscle function and activity Fat content and distribution Diet of animal Age Basic muscle structure in most vertebrates is somewhat similar , so taxonomic relatedness is often not paramount in matching flavors . ( There appear to be <URL> in flavor , particularly among many " beefy " animals , though . ) There 's a reason that many people say lots of random meats <URL> . Since muscle structure is often quite similar even in very unrelated animals , a lot of reptile and amphibian meat can " taste like chicken . " The texture is often different , because muscles may be used in different ways , but if you put the meat through a meat grinder , the flavor would n't be as varied . ( Thus alligator sausage is not as adventurous or odd tasting as you might think at first . ) What makes " light meat " vs. " dark meat " often has a lot to do with <URL> , and if you try similarly colored meat from different animals , it often has <URL> . Ostrich meat tends to be dark and " beefy , " while many parts of pigs are advertised as " white meat " which is presumably closer to birds . I remember my first experience a number of years ago eating a smoked turkey leg -- it was smoked for a very long time and cooked slowly for many hours . It tasted almost exactly like ham . And it was like ham : a leg muscle from an animal with similar fat distribution in that area which was processed in the same way . The " gaminess " of wild animal meats often has to do with ( 1 ) increased age , ( 2 ) different/more varied diet , and ( 3 ) more muscle activity than most domesticated animals get . In my experience , for example , farm-raised venison is distinctly less gamey than wild venison . Moreover , most of our farm-raised animals these days tend to be slaughtered rather young ( generally as soon as mature ) , so as to maximize profits . If you encounter older meat from old farm animals which are slaughtered late in life , it often has " gamier " or " deeper " flavors than the young animals we are now used to . We also tend to breed domesticated animals to maximize muscle content in certain desirable areas of the animal ( e.g. , chicken breasts ) which often tends to make them more " bland " and less gamey , because the animals do n't generally need so much muscle in those areas and thus never use them much . ( It 's notable that tastes have changed significantly over time . Years ago , it was common to hang wild game for days or weeks until it began to rot in a process called mortification . While it tenderized the meat , it also had the effect of heightening the " wild " gamey flavors of each individual meat , which was considered desirable by many . In most industrialized cultures today , the trend is toward blander and blander meats , with young , lean animals the norm , and the boneless skinless chicken breast -- with the flavorful fatty skin and bones/connective tissue removed , produced from chickens which never exercise and eat uniform bland diets -- as one of the most common meat sources . ) Muscle texture and fat distribution can also create distinctions , even if flavors are not that different . Most muscle tastes somewhat similar , so it 's often the fat that makes the big difference , since the fat tends to store energy from whatever food sources the animal has . As Harold McGee describes it in On Food and Cooking ( p. 134 ) : Fat : The Flavor of the Tribe The machinery of the red and white muscle fiber is much the same no matter what the animal , because it has the specific job of generating movement . Fat cells , on the other hand , are essentially storage tissue , and any sort of fat-soluble material can end up in them . So the contents of fat tissue vary from species to species and are also affected by the animal 's diet and resident gastrointestinal microbes . It 's largely the contents of the fat tissue that give beef , lamb , pork , and chicken their distinctive flavors , which are composites of many different kinds of aroma molecules . The fat molecules themselves can be transformed by heat and oxygen into molecules that smell fruity or floral , nutty or " green , " with the relative proportions depending on the nature of the fat . Thus , wild or older animals are more likely to have different sources for fat ( and more marbled fat mixed into muscle ) , which gives it a more distinctive ( " gamey " ) flavor . Fish meat tastes a lot different mostly due to fats/oils distributed throughout ( instead of in pockets like most higher vertebrates ) , and the structure of the muscles tends to create a flaky texture due to different usage and less connective tissue . There are also distinctive chemicals ( particularly in the fat ) that give fish its characteristic " fishy " flavor , but when you encounter very " mild " fish , it 's the texture and fat distribution that makes it most different from another white meat . One last thing I would mention is expectations . Many , many studies have shown that pre-existing assumptions can have a great impact on our experien
I use my roasting pan ( either with or without a rack ) at least once a week to roast vegetables - either for salads , for sides , or ( for instance with pumpkin for soup ) to get a slightly different and more concentrated flavour before blending the veges . I find the vegetables cook more evenly in a roasting pan than a baking pan - perhaps the higher sides help to create a kind of microclimate around the veges ?? Not sure about that one . When making roast vege salads , you can take the pan straight out of the oven and take advantage of the high sides to mix your other ingredients in ( pasta , greens , dressing etc ) then serve from there if no one is looking at your serving dish ! I also use it as a water bath when cooking souffles , puddings etc. .
Yes , toasted corn works great as a soup topper , especially for " American " soups , like chili , tortilla soup , or cream-of-tomato . The difficulty is that , as you surmised , the corn needs to be first cooked and then dried and toasted in the oven . Also , small corn kernels do n't work very well since they become almost microscopic when toasted and dried . Here 's how I 've done it : Bought dried " giant corn " , or hominy of some variety from a Mexican market . Soaked corn overnight in cold water , then boiled it for 20 minutes . Drained corn and then roasted it on a cookie sheet at 200F for an hour or so . This is a lot of effort , and for that reason I never did it again even though it turned out well . My easier effort suggestions would be : Start with canned hominy ( have not tried this to see if it toasts well ) Find a natural foods store which will sell you unsalted " corn nuts " in bulk , then toast them briefly in the oven .
130 degrees is certainly the temperature to aim for , I 'm thinking that it 's the pan sear that did it . 1 minute in a pan is actually quite a bit for a thinner steak ( at 6 ounces I 'm thinking yours were maybe 1/2 - 3/4 inch ) , certainly enough to add 10-20 degrees or so to the steak 's temperature and make it medium well . As for how to avoid it there 's a few things : Get a thick steak : a thick steak can take a minute in the pan without cooking much more Cook to rare : if you want to use a thinner steak cook it to 115 or 120F instead of 130F , that way the sear will bring it up to the perfect temperature Use a torch to brown it : A chef 's torch would give a good , quick sear without cooking the steak as much as a hot pan Sear the steak first : it 's not as good as searing after , but then you will get your perfect temperature Cook the steak , then let it cool , then sear it . Your steak will only overcook if the temperature goes over 135F
end question
start question
When 's the best time to buy a Thanksgiving turkey ?
Most turkeys sold in the United States for Thanksgiving are frozen . It simply is not feasible for meat processors to process the huge spike in turkeys for the holiday and provide everyone a fresh turkey . Expect to pay a premium for a fresh turkey over a frozen one . If you buy a frozen turkey , from a quality standpoint it does not matter whether you buy a turkey a month out from Thanksgiving ( now ) or wait to buy the turkey later . You will basically get the same product .
Your main sources of flavour in any Chinese-style noodle dish will be : Garlic Ginger Chilli Spring Onion/Scallion Soy sauce Oyster sauce Rice wine / dry sherry Sesame oil Sesame oil has a very distinctive ' Chinese ' flavour . It is very strong so you only need a little . You should not use it for frying - think of it more like a seasoning . Add a teaspoon or so at the end of cooking and stir through .
That 's the same method I would use . If you have a salad spinner you could try giving them a gentle spin in there first . They are sturdy enough ( unless they 're over-ripe ) that they should handle a gentle pass through it .
Instead of dousing the coals , in a primitive setup , you would be better served to manipulate distance from heat source as your form of temperature control . It can be as simple as adding or removing bricks to space your grill from your flame , or as complicated as a pulley-based system to raise or lower your grate . Using water will cause your coals to smolder , which can give off creosote ( less likely with charcoal than wood , but still a possibility ) . This can impart a rather nasty flavor into your food . If you are unable to or uncomfortable with changing your grate distance , then salt or some other dry smothering agent would be viable .
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
I 've spatchcocked our turkey the past two years and will never go back to the usual way . It just cooks so much faster . The spatchcocking itself is n't to hard , although you do have to be willing to inflict a little violence on the turkey . I basically follow <URL> recipe . The video is located <URL> . I do , however cook a larger bird . The time I did it with an 18 pound bird it too a bit more than 90 minutes .
The secrets : ( some are old wives tales , but hey , it 's an old recipe ) Eggs : Room temperature ( you do n't put eggs in the fridge do you ? ) and not fresh Contamination : Make sure everything you use to prepare the base is perfectly clean , especially no grease . Use boiling water to rinse everything first . Metal or glass bowls are best , as plastic is harder to get 100 % clean . Also make sure no yolk gets into the egg whites Beating : When eggs whites have gone firm , add the sugar a little at a time using a powerful beater machine going flat out . NZ ' ers use their trusty but ancient <URL> with the glass bowl for ten minutes until the it looks like the Swiss Alps on a sunny day . You should not be able to feel the castor sugar when you squish some mix between your fingers . If they go dull you have over beaten . They will still work but will go extra soggy when cooked as the sugar runs out Size : Height = radius , or a little less . A radius of less than 10cm means you wo n't get Pav , just meringue . You can experiment with baking paper rings to hold the mix into a perfect cake shape if fussy . I would n't bother though Problems : Collapse : You opened the oven door ... DO N'T Cracking : Normal , do n't worry . This is a messy desert and you 'll be covering it with whipped cream soon ! Crystallisation : over cooking Marshmallow like in middle : Normal , that 's what a Pav is meant to be like . If it 's not like that you have over cooked it , or you did n't make it thick enough . Foamed egg white is a self-insulator , once the outside cooks it stops the heat getting into the middle Weeping : too much sugar , over beating , or not enough cooking . Cook for little longer on humid days If truly stuck , go on a course <URL> This is what they should look like
If you are only using it three times a month then this 25lbs bag may last a very long time indeed . The problem is that even white rice can eventually develop off flavors when exposed to light and air . Additionally - even if pests do n't have access to the rice , it is not unlikely that the rice has some eggs on it that can hatch and spoil the whole bag . The solutions to these problems all make it difficult to use the rice in the short term . For long-term food storage dry foods are typically sealed in either # 10 cans or mylar bags . An oxygen absorbing packet is also included . This will prevent spoilage and pest growth . Mylar bags are less expensive and you can open one bag at a time for short term use . Alternatively - if you can freeze the rice to ensure there are no pests then the rice can be stored , sealed , in a cool , dry place as others have described . Given how cheap rice is - it might be acceptable to you to just take your chances and replace it if it spoils after some months .
If you mean cleaning in terms of getting rid of the ' beard ' , use clean pliers and a lot of elbow grease . It 's hard to pull that out . If you mean just cleaning the shells , use a stiff bristled brush and scrub . If you mean cleaning the sand from the inside of the mussels , put the live mussels in a large container full of water and cornmeal and leave overnight in the refrigerator . The mussels should flush the sand out and replace it with cornmeal ( never tried this method , but I 've heard it works well . )
Clean it immediately , before anything has a chance to dry . As soon as I 'm done grating anything , I run the grater under water and wipe it with a sponge . Wipe with the direction of the blades , then run a little water inside it . Optional : put the grater in the dishwasher to clean fully .
Before you use the drippings , taste them . If they taste good on their own , they will be great for gravy . Often , the oil left in the pan after roasting turkey is used to make the roux to thicken gravy to go with that turkey . If it looks like all oil , you can use it as such . Since the turkey was pre-basted , the drippings might be a mixture of oil and juices . Pour it off into a clear container so you can see just how much of it is oil and how much of it is juice . Scoop off the oil and cook it and enough added butter on the stove ( preferably in the roasting pan ) with an equal ( roughly ) amount of flour . To make a roux gravy , the basic formula is 2 tablespoons fat , 2 tablespoons flour , and 1 cup of liquid to equal 1 cup of gravy . Quote from <URL> which meshes with my own experience . As you cook the flour and oil to a medium brown , try to scrape up any brown bits stuck to the pan . Those are huge flavor bombs . The liquid portion of the drippings poured off can be added with the broth that is the liquid part of the gravy . The above link leads to more detailed instructions .
Short and sweet ... Use cake / pastry flour . At 5-7 % protein vs. 11 % for AP vs. 13 % + for bread flour , that means a lot less gluten formation . This protein , when mixed with water and subjected to mechanical working is what produces gluten . The higher the protein percentage , the ' tougher ' ( due to the gluten ) the final product . Always use cake or pastry flour when making any type of cake , even brownies . And a little extra egg wo n't hurt , either .
I generally find that basting while grilling is less about keeping the internal meat moist and more about preventing outside from scorching . If you 've brined and injected the turkey breast , I 'd say you are fine as long as the exterior is n't browning too quickly .
Yes , it works without presoaking . You have to cook them for quite a long time until they become quickly translucent , the small ones will need about 30 minutes at a moderate boil . It is not optimal , as the outside will become mushier in this long cooking time , but there are people who do n't mind the difference .
Cast iron is great for bacon , but not a grill pan . The bacon really needs to be floating on its own grease for nice even heating . The best bacon is cooked slowly . Preheat the pan so it is an evenly heated cooking surface , then slide you bacon on to the hot pan . By slide , I mean move it around on the pan before you drop it so the pan gets a coat of grease before dropping the bacon and getting it stuck on the hot pan . Let it cook at medium low heat , it will take longer but you 'll get less splatter , the bacon wo n't burn , and it wo n't dry out either , you also have a larger window of opportunity to pick up the bacon while it 's " just right " whatever that is for you .
What I do is use a big plastic bowl . The bowl is about 18 " in diameter at the top and holds about 2 gallons of water . I fill the bowl about 1/2 to 2/3 full of blueberries and then fill it to the brim with water and leave the water running into it . As the bowl is filling and when it 's full I gently agitate the berries with my hands . Most of the chaff naturally floats to the top and spills over the edge of the bowl . As I agitate the berries , I also try to direct any leaves to the edge and pull any berries back from the edge . I lose a few good berries , but not too many and since I 'm dealing with a lot of them I do n't worry about it too much . As I 'm agitating the berries , I can feel a lot of the squishy ones and pull them out to look at them and discard if they 're too far gone . When most of the chaff is gone , I dump the berries into a colander and let them drain . I 've tried spinning them in a salad spinner , but for the amount of berries I 'm trying to process , I 've found that in order to remove any appreciable amount of water I can only put a small amount at a time in the spinner so it takes forever to spin them all . So I let them drain , and then since I 'm usually freezing these berries , I put some paper towels down on a tray and spread out a layer of berries . When they 're spread out I can pick out most of the squished or shriveled ones that I missed earlier , then I pull the paper towels out and freeze them . I have n't ever looked for one , but I 've always wondered if there 's such a thing as a colander or sieve or screen with really big holes - i.e. just slightly smaller than a blueberry - that I could just dump the berries into and rinse off all the debris . One big limitation to this technique is that it bogs down if you 're dealing with less than fresh berries . Picking out all the squished or moldy ones if they 've been sitting around too long is problematic .
Cut the sprout end off . Place the cut end on the board , slice the onion in half vertically ( i.e. place your knife on the root and cut down ) If the outer skin layer is nice and thick , pull it off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the outer skin is papery , pull it and one layer of onion flesh off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the first layer of onion flesh is slightly dimpled or has a kind of matte finish , it 's probably turning ' skinny ' . Strip that off too .
I use whole grains in my bread - wheat , oats , quinoa , etc. . There are a couple considerations : 1 - rehydration If the grain wo n't be adequately rehydrated from just sitting in water for an hour then it should be precooked . Wheat berries , for example , definitely need to be cooked . They just wo n't get enough water or time in the dough while it is rising . A little experimenting may need to be done to get the water ratio right . 2 - sharpness Adding hard ingredients will change the dynamic of your dough kneading . For example , if you knead in a mixer then you might have to go at a slower speed to keep from shredding the gluten . Sprouting grains is fantastic . Sprouted grains are very nutritious and have a completely different flavor that I find very interesting . Sprouts also have a lot of sugar in them . I sometimes replace some of the sugar in my recipes with sprouted , dried , and ground wheat berries .
You want to use a gentle heating method . For this sort of thing , I prefer steaming . It will gently bring up the heat of your food without wringing the moisture out of it . This is especially helpful if it 's already cut into relatively small portions , such as slices of breast meat . Spread everything out on a single layer on the steamer basket before hand . Warming drawer would be my second choice . Slice , add a few teaspoons of water , and cover and add to your warming drawer , set to your target temperature .
A good turkey brine should be around a 9 % solution - 9g salt per 100g water - that 's 90g salt per liter . You should n't go below 6 % brine , but using a solution anywhere in the range of 6 % - 9 % should give you excellent results . Soak for 12 hours if you 're soaking a whole bird - keep it to around 6 hours if you 're brining just the breast . Be sure to rinse the bird after brining to wash-away excess surface salt . FYI - The drippings from the turkey will be extremely salty - they probably wo n't be suitable for making gravy .
end question
start question
dry garlic in oil -- > botulism risk ?
The <URL> seems to be that any moisture level below 35 % will inhibit growth of the C. Botulinum spores that cause botulism . It 's hard to point to true scientific sources because they tend to be protected , but if you spend a few minutes on Google ( try <URL> ) you 'll see that it is in fact confirmed in several of the scientific journals . I seem to be seeing snippets of references ( which I ca n't view the full text of ) that suggest possible growth at moisture levels as low as 16 % , but <URL> have 6 % moisture or lower , which is way too low for botulism . If you are seriously concerned - perhaps you live in a very humid climate and do n't have air conditioning - then toss a <URL> into the container to be sure that the moisture level stays down . The most popular are those little packets of silica gel ( do n't open them ! ) , but there are many more - see Wikipedia 's <URL> . Honestly though , chances are your flaked garlic is already free of C. Botulinum spores after the dehydrating process , and nothing 's going to grow no matter how you store the dried stuff . The above paragraph is only included for the hyper-paranoid . Powdered/flaked garlic is safe to store at room temperature . If you 're actually storing this garlic in the oil ( it 's not entirely clear from your question ) then that 's another story , and theoretically you 're making it possible for the spores to grow again . So it comes down to a question of whether or not the garlic flakes are already clean . That 's extremely likely to be the case , but not a sure thing , and personally , I do n't know if I 'd chance it ; best to follow the same precautions as those for fresh garlic and soak them in vinegar for 24 hours to kill any spores ( although you might as well use fresh garlic in this case ) .
Personally , I just throw them into stir fries or fried rice ( add them near the end of the cooking time ) . I 've also had them slightly stir fried with pea shoots in sesame oil . Simple but delicious . Tofu666 , an amazing vegan blogger , fries them often . Here 's a sample : <URL> This page has instructions for pickling them : <URL>
It will double in size when it is cooked , however the longer it is kept in the liquid the bigger it will grow until ultimately all liquid has been absorbed . A trick is to cook it separately , drain it , and toss with olive oil so it does n't clump . Then , add it to the rest of the soup , stirring well just before serving .
When we have had garlic in our garden I have used the garlic leaves . They do have a garlicky flavor but are milder than garlic cloves . I tend to use them more as I would chives or garlic chives as in addition to having the milder flavor than the cloves they make for a quite nice presentation . Regarding drying them , I have never tried it . Off the top of my head I ca n't think of any reason not to dry them for later use but there may be issues that I just do n't know about .
Basic answer : it 's generally recommended to sterilize jars before storing low-acid foods at room temperature . ( Many canning procedures effectively sterilize the jars during processing . ) In your case , you should be certain the jars are clean and thoroughly dry as well . Regarding your overall proposal : I 'd only give away food gifts like this if I had prepared them according to an established procedure and recipe tested by a reputable food safety and preservation organization . Your proposal sounds like it could be safe , but I ca n't find any such recipes at the <URL> or similar sources . Generally , most food safety websites do n't recommend storing any homemade flavored oils at room temperature or for more than a few days in the refrigerator . ( There were some older recommendations that allowed for dried herbs and/or herbs that were strained out of oil after a brief infusion , but even these were found to have a small risk -- because only lab testing can determine whether herbs are dried sufficiently or whether you 've managed to strain out all the small particles -- and are no longer listed on most food preservation sites . ) Commercial preparations of flavored oils almost exclusively involve prior acidification of the additives to ensure safety . Also , I would note that heating the oil hot enough to kill botulism bacteria will cause it to degrade somewhat in quality and flavor . ( This is another reason why commercial preparations use acidification . ) Lastly , just my opinion : I do n't want to overstate the risk here ( which is likely low ) , but without a tested procedure it 's impossible to know for certain when storing low-acid foods at room temperature . And botulism toxin can be deadly . I know it sounds like a nice idea , but I personally would not give flavored oils as gifts . Even if I found a reputable recipe from a food preservation site that had been scientifically tested , the people I give these things to have to trust that I know what I 'm doing . Personally , I tend to discard any flavored oils I 've received as gifts before using ( unless I would trust the person and know how the food was prepared ) .
The <URL> seems to be that any moisture level below 35 % will inhibit growth of the C. Botulinum spores that cause botulism . It 's hard to point to true scientific sources because they tend to be protected , but if you spend a few minutes on Google ( try <URL> ) you 'll see that it is in fact confirmed in several of the scientific journals . I seem to be seeing snippets of references ( which I ca n't view the full text of ) that suggest possible growth at moisture levels as low as 16 % , but <URL> have 6 % moisture or lower , which is way too low for botulism . If you are seriously concerned - perhaps you live in a very humid climate and do n't have air conditioning - then toss a <URL> into the container to be sure that the moisture level stays down . The most popular are those little packets of silica gel ( do n't open them ! ) , but there are many more - see Wikipedia 's <URL> . Honestly though , chances are your flaked garlic is already free of C. Botulinum spores after the dehydrating process , and nothing 's going to grow no matter how you store the dried stuff . The above paragraph is only included for the hyper-paranoid . Powdered/flaked garlic is safe to store at room temperature . If you 're actually storing this garlic in the oil ( it 's not entirely clear from your question ) then that 's another story , and theoretically you 're making it possible for the spores to grow again . So it comes down to a question of whether or not the garlic flakes are already clean . That 's extremely likely to be the case , but not a sure thing , and personally , I do n't know if I 'd chance it ; best to follow the same precautions as those for fresh garlic and soak them in vinegar for 24 hours to kill any spores ( although you might as well use fresh garlic in this case ) .
If really want to substitute for that coconut oil in this particular application , you want a pure , relatively flavorless , saturated fat . This will be one that is solid at room temperature . That means commercial shortening , such as the US brand Crisco . Update : cocoa butter itself , of course would be ideal , if you can get it . But , then you would want to temper it . In that case , well , see below ... However , in my opinion : Your best bet , if you are willing to do the necessary work , for a crisp true chocolate coating is to use ... pure chocolate . Nothing else . The trick is to ensure that your chocolate is in temper . ( You can read more about it within the <URL> ) . This means that it is melted and then cooled in such as way as to ensure the cocoa butter forms the most desirable crystals , which have a melting point near mouth temperature , and a smooth , crisp bite . You can google many detailed articles on how to temper chocolate , with many variant methods . For example , here is one from <URL> . For small batches at home , I have found the following method to be very successful , using 100 % real chocolate such as Merkens or Ghirardelli ( or many other brands ) . That is , chocolate that is made of nothing but cocoa butter , cocoa solids , sugar , flavoring , and maybe some lecithen . You do n't want other fats . In general , you should avoid chocolate chips ( which may not be true chocolate ) unless you know your manufacturer actually uses 100 % true chocolate in their chips ( a small number do ) . Break the chocolate up into small chunks ( maybe 1/2 inch or 1 cm in size ) Place in a glass microwave safe bowl . The purpose of the glass bowl is to absorb the heat from the chocolate , and then keep it relatively stable and warm . Place the chocolate in the microwave at very low power . I use level 2 on my microwave . It will take a very long time , maybe 8-10 minutes , even to be partially melted . This is okay . Every so often , stir the chocolate so it is heating fairly evenly . ( The glass bowl also helps by adding thermal mass ... ) Keep microwaving on low , until the chocolate is almost all melted , checking more and more frequently as you get close . When the chocolate is about 90 % melted , take it out and let the residual heat from the bowl and the chocolate melt the rest . Do one last stir , so that the various crystal types and seeds are evenly distributed , just in case some small part of the chocolate went out temper in this process . Again , I emphasize , patience and going slow here is the key . This method trades time for complexity . The key to this method is : commercial chocolate is already in temper . By barely melting it ( and I mean barely ) , we keep it temper . We do n't have to do all the hard stuff with thermometers and carefully regulating the temperature up to melt the bad crystals , then down to seed the good ones and so on . Once you have your tempered melted chocolate , you can use it to coat candies , cookies , or ( one of my favorites ) stir in a crunchy breakfast cereal , coconut flakes , or nuts to make little candies ... the applications are endless .
Summary : It 's impossible to give a good statistical answer to this question , since historically botulism was associated with only certain foods , and diagnosis was mostly based on symptoms occurring after consumption of those foods . Thus , old statistics include a small subset of actual cases . Actual medical testing for botulism in an ambiguous case was not common until at least the mid-20th century ( after most modern food-safety protocols to prevent it came into effect ) . In any case , the reason why protocols came into effect was likely due to the seriousness of the illness . Between 1900 and 1950 , the U.S. fatality rate from confirmed cases of botulism was greater than 60 % . So , even if the incidence of this type of food poisoning was very small , there was great interest in prevention . The two main botulism prevention techniques ( nitrate/nitrite curing of meats and pressure-canning ) were understood by the 1920s and widely implemented commercially . More details ( including more than you ever wanted to know about the history of sausage illnesses ) below . Part 1 : Why We Cure Meat I should start out by noting that this is a very hard question to answer . The specific botulism bacteria <URL> , so we can not know the exact cause of illnesses before then . Historically , botulism illness was also associated with certain foods , so cases caused by other foods were not considered to be " botulism . " Foodborne illness in general was probably quite common in the past , but it 's hard to come up with exact numbers for the same reason that we tend to have arguments and questions periodically here about people saying , " I 've been doing this all my life in this way , and the food never caused me a problem ! " Even if a particular illness is frequently associated with food , it 's hard to identify the cause without a lab test . And if illness is delayed by hours or even a day or more , people may not make any association with food that was previously eaten . Botulism is one of the few foodborne illnesses that was identified earlier ( back in the 1700s ) only because its death rate was so high . Historically , it was likely a significant cause of illness , particularly in processed meats . The word botulism comes from Latin botulus , meaning " sausage , " because it was originally associated with sausage-making . Botulism was clearly identified in the <URL> . Due to the efforts of Justinus Kerner , the Kingdom of Württemberg ( now a part of Germany ) passed laws requiring the reporting of all incidents of sausage poisoning . Within a 35-year span , there were 234 reported cases , with 110 fatalities . Keep in mind these are deaths from one type of food ( and most of them specifically from blood sausage ) in a population of only a few hundred thousand . ( For comparison , there were a bit over 1000 cases of foodborne botulism from all foods in the entire U.S. from 1950-2000 , in a population nearly a thousand times bigger . ) And these estimates from Württemberg are still low , since more and more cases were identified over that period as people became more familiar with the symptoms and likely cause . Of course , we can not confirm that all cases from Württemberg were actually botulism , since no bacteria test could be done ; some were undoubtedly early cases of trichinosis or other diseases . But Kerner identified many of the symptoms , as well as realizing the necessity of the absence of air . ( Sausages which were not stuffed fully did n't seem to cause the illness . ) So it 's likely many if not most were actual cases of botulism . Even after the cause was discovered and more sanitary methods encouraged , sausage botulism was still a major problem in Germany until the early 20th century ( with about 800 cases and 200 fatalities occurring between 1886 and 1913 ) . Once the bacteria had been identified , new protocols could be put in place , and these numbers declined dramatically . The use of nitrates and nitrates as a curing agent for meats ( which dates back centuries ) became standard practice in the 1920s , since nitrate/nitrite was shown to prevent botulism bacteria growth . Although they are criticized by some today , nitrates or nitrites are absolutely essential to guaranteeing the safety of meat stored for long periods . ( It should be noted that most " uncured " meats advertised today actually contain adequate amounts of added nitrate/nitrite to prevent botulism growth ; these chemicals are just added in " natural " sources like celery powder/juice . Thus , they 're still " cured , " just with a different source for nitrate/nitrite . ) Uncured meats continue to be a problem , for example , in Alaska , where <URL> result in a botulism rate many times the rest of the U.S. ( The CDC reports that Alaska accounts for around 15 % of botulism cases , despite having only about 0.2 % of the U.S. population . ) In an era where more people are becoming interested in homemade charcuterie , it 's important to keep in mind the etymological root of the word botulism and why it 's abs
Taste-wise there will be little to not difference in the result . Just be careful to use the proper ratio of garlic to salt ( generally 3-to-1 salt to garlic powder ) .
According to <URL> , the preparation of a wat begins with chopped onions slow cooked , without any fat or oil , in a dry skillet or pot until much of their moisture has been driven away . Fat ( usually niter kibbeh ) is then added , often in quantities that might seem excessive by modern Western standards , and the onions and other aromatics are sautéed before the addition of other ingredients . This method causes the onions to break down and thicken the stew .
To expand on Jolene 's box idea , I 'd recommend : shirt boxes ( talk to a local department store if you 're not planning on buying a bunch of shirts ) pizza boxes ( again , talk to a local store about getting some ... likely get the smallest ones you can , such as if they have ones for a few leftover slices as opposed to for a whole pie ) restaurant takeout containers ( depending on the size of the cookies ... talk to a local chinese carryout or similar ) Some cake and candy supply stores will sell a variety of box sizes as well . I 'd also agree with irwinners in recommending a fan -- I ca n't quantify the exact speedup , as it 's affected by ambient humidity , temperature , airspeed and such , but a box fan near the cookies ( I use it to suck air over the cookies , not blow , as I do n't have a good way to dust the inside of the fan without disassembling it each time ) will help to crust up the icing to make it a little more sturdy .
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
Baking them for that long will evaporate a lot of water . This is a good thing . If they were in enough liquid to not dry out at all then they would n't brown and you would miss out on a lot of delicious flavor . That would be braising . These may have been dryer than potatoes in the past if the potatoes were cut into smaller pieces ( more surface area ) or if the cook time was longer . If you want your veggies to be more moist then you can cook them for a shorter length of time or toss them with some fat which will give the illusion of moisture as well as prevent some internal moisture from escaping .
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
Peanut and canola are vegetable oils . Vegetable oil is a catch-all term , it 's not asking for a product labelled " vegetable oil " although you can buy it in the store . Oils labelled vegetable oil are blends and can be any proportion of things like canola ( rapeseed ) , peanut , corn , sunflower , etc. . Just do n't use Olive oil , it is a vegetable oil but it wo n't be good for cakes ! Different vegetable oils will give different properties although most will give you about the same result . Canola is flavorless and relatively light while peanut is a bit richer and , well , peanut-y . The differences in your cake will be subtle , however .
This completely depends on all of the other factors involved in botulinum growth , not to mention the particular strain you 're concerned about ( there are several ) . Salt , acidity ( low pH ) , low moisture , and extreme temperature ( low or high ) will all slow botulinum growth significantly . There are proteolytic and non-proteolytic types of bacteria . The proteolytic C.botulinum bacteria will never grow in the refrigerator - they can not grow at temperatures below 12 ° C <URL> . The non-proteolytic strains can grow at temperatures as low as 3 ° C . That is very close to refrigerator temperature so clearly they will grow very slowly - again , the exact speed depends on other factors - but they will grow . According to <URL> , the proteolytic strains ( the ones that can not grow in the fridge ) are the ones that tend to produce gas and off-odours , so they 'll be more easily detectable . They also have far lower heat resistance , so they are easier to cook away . But of course , if they 've grown to a sufficient level , it 's too late to do that . As far as I know , there are n't specific guidelines for vacuum-packed foods , whether commercially packed or simply cooked sous-vide . I 'd ask you to consider that botulism is not the only type of foodborne illness that can grow in the refrigerator . There 's also <URL> , <URL> , and possibly some others I 'm forgetting about . Cooking ( especially sous-vide cooking ) does n't kill every last one of them , just enough to make the food safe . By the way , listeria and salmonella are both <URL> which means that they can grow with or without air . There 's also the small matter of your actual refrigerator temperature . Although the theoretical temperature ( 4 ° C ) is lower than that required for all but the hardiest of bacteria , once you move up even a single degree to 5 ° C there are many more kinds that can start to grow . How cold is your fridge , really ? I 've heard of some being as high as 10-12 ° C in parts ! If your fridge temperature is even slightly high , botulism will be the least of your worries . Honestly , given the incredibly tiny number of actual documented cases of botulism ( <URL> ) compared to the insanely high total number of food poisoning cases every year ( <URL> according to some sources ) , people seem to place far too much emphasis on that particular species . I realize that it 's one of the scariest on account of that whole " instant death " thing , but even if you could prove that your improperly-stored food is 100 % free of botulism toxin , you could still get seriously ill from eating it . You 're literally worrying about the least probable vector for food poisoning . Bottom line , I 'd strongly advise you to treat sous-vide food just like any other food in terms of food safety and freeze it if you plan to store it longer than 4-5 days . There are just too many variables at play to conclusively say otherwise .
<URL> simply means " absence of air . " Any liquid food environment basically counts as " anaerobic . " Yes , there may be some dissolved gases and exchange of air may happen near the surface of a liquid like water , but deeper in an undisturbed liquid , there 's often not enough air to prevent botulism growth . Some basically " solid " foods count too , if they are n't porous or are highly viscous ( but apparent solids ) and contain a high enough moisture content for bacteria to grow and spread . Any solids that are relatively moist and close-packed are also a particular problem ( think sausages ) . Whether all of these anaerobic environments will grow botulism then depends on various other factors . Botulism bacteria need food . They dislike acidity or excess salt ( think pickles ) or excess sugar ( think preserves ) or alcohol ( think fermentation ) , which are all traditional preservation methods . They need a certain level of water -- hence why drying was also a traditional preservation method and why solid hunks of stuff are less likely to cause problems ( unless they have sufficient internal moisture ) . Also , oil-rich environments lack water and may not grow botulism ( think mayonnaise ) but water-containing food within oil can ( think garlic or herbs in oil ) . All of these may be " anaerobic " environments , but the other factors can prevent botulism . Lastly , you have things like temperature -- chilling will slow botulism growth to a crawl and at low temperatures stop it completely . That 's the last traditional preservation method : chilling or freezing . Basically , anything under liquid left at room temperature for extended periods could conceivably grow botulism bacteria , assuming adequate " food " ( for the bacteria ) is present and none of the " preserving " environmental conditions mentioned above . Note the " extended periods " -- compared to other food poisoning bacteria , botulism grows more slowly and generally needs at least a couple days to grow to appreciable levels . And that 's why any type of canning recipes , etc. from official organizations are rigorously tested with exact measurements for preservation agents ( like acid , salt , etc. ) , unless they undergo a " pressure canning " step that heats the food hot enough to actually kill botulism spores ( which will survive boiling ) . Similarly , preserved meats ( especially processed ground ones ) that can remain at room temperature need to be treated with excessive salt for long periods ( sometimes acid as well ) , and often other agents ( like nitrates or nitrites ) to inhibit botulism growth . So yes , as Harold McGee mentions , stock left at room temperature for a few days can definitely grow botulism bacteria . A casserole left at room temperature for a few days could likely grow them too . Meat left at room temperature can definitely grow botulism , which is actually one of the biggest problems for actual cases of botulism after canning -- improperly preserved meat not kept under refrigeration . " Solid " meat and vegetables are less likely to have botulism bacteria far in their interior in the first place ( and often are n't " wet " enough for the bacteria to spread far ) , but if they become contaminated , they can be a problem too . For example : <URL> stored in foil and kept at room temperature have been known to be a cause , as have <URL> that were pricked before pickling ( thus inadvertently introducing botulism bacteria into the otherwise sterile yolk ) . To quote the <URL> : Botulinal toxin has been demonstrated in a considerable variety of foods , such as canned corn , peppers , green beans , soups , beets , asparagus , mushrooms , ripe olives , spinach , tuna fish , chicken and chicken livers and liver pate , and luncheon meats , ham , sausage , stuffed eggplant , lobster , and smoked and salted fish .
What I would suggest is rather than adding a syrup , to take some of your cooked beans , cook them a bit more , then liquify them in a blender . This should give you a thick sauce that tastes like the beans , therefore compliments them perfectly . You can then thicken them very slightly if the consistency is still too runny , be sparing with the flour though . In fact , you could probably make something satisfactory by simply using less thickener . If you have a pasty , sticky sauce it 's a classic symptom of too much thickener . Try making a roux with some butter and flour , cook it awhile for a dark roux which gives deeper color and more flavor . You can then add the roux in small amounts to your cooking liquid until you get the right consistency . If you are pressed for time and have some available a couple big spoons of refried beans may just do the trick too .
The green in the center can have a bitter taste , and many chefs prefer to remove them . If the taste and color do n't bother you , it will not cause problems for the dish . The brown end tends to a have a harder consistency than the rest of the clove , so may cause a problem depending on how you cook the garlic . If you 're cooking it in a manner that leads to a very soft and mushy piece of garlic , you 'd be better off discarding it . ( Boiling in soup , for example . ) It probably would not make much of a difference if you were browning the garlic for a topping .
Roasted garlic will get a slightly sweet flavor , dipped in a chocolate fondue can be wonderful and I have seen a recipe for garlic chocolate chip cookies . <URL>
end question
start question
Can I use aluminum foil as a substitute for parchment paper ?
Depends on what you 're making . The principal differences are : Parchment is much more non-stick than aluminum foil . I have n't tried non-stick aluminum myself , so no idea how that compares . Parchment insulates ( against heat transfer ) more than aluminum . Parchment is somewhat porous ; it absorbs water . Looking at that recipe quickly , it 'd probably work fine . I 'd suggest substituting aluminum foil sprayed with Pam ( non-stick cooking spray ) . The bottom may brown a little quicker with the foil .
During my younger days working in restaurants I have grated many pounds of cheese using a ' meat grinder ' ( or rather the meat grinder attachment for a hobart stand mixer ) ... I have also used my home Kitchen Aid meat grinder for cheeses ( cheddar , jack and mozzarella mostly ) . So , it depends on the grinder and the attachments you have but yes it can be done . You want a fine grinder plate and cold cheese ( so it stays together better ) . You probably also want to be doing a " serious quantity " as the set up/tear down/clean up will be an endeavor . If your having friends and family over for a Mexican Fiesta , perfect . If you are making a quick plate of nachos ... OVERKILL . . For a few burgers , do it once and decide for yourself if you want to do it again . It wo n't be bad for the grinder It wo n't be bad for the cheese Expect Leftovers ... ( note : IMHO near frozen mozzarella for lasagna is a perfect place to use a grinder for cheese ... )
Maybe ! There 's one big potential issue : panini presses are hinged differently . There 's a bit of variation exactly how , but the effect is that the entire top can lift up , so that it can press down flat on whatever you stick in there . Waffle irons are just designed to be filled , so they hinge at the back . If your sandwich is much smaller than the waffle iron , you can put it in the front part ( as far from the hinge as possible ) , and it wo n't matter too much , but if it takes up a decent fraction of the area , it 'll be squeezed pretty tight at the back compared to the front . This will probably make it cook unevenly , and depending on what you 've got in there , might squeeze things out . Some panini presses also have better temperature controls than waffle irons , but that 's probably not as much of a concern . So I 'd give it a shot and see how it works , plan on possibly flipping your sandwich around halfway through , and do n't be too upset if it 's not pretty ! ( rfusca 's comment above is also good - if you 're able to take off the hinge , you 'd avoid the whole problem . )
If it calls for tightly wrapping it , they 're trying for steam . More than likely , they 're just trying to shield the top from radiant energy , so the top does n't brown before the whole thing is cooked through . If you 're ever baking a cake , and it 's starting to brown , but a toothpick is still coming out wet , I 'll move it to a lower rack , and put a sheet pan on the rack above , to keep it from browning much further , but not seal it in such a way that it would steam the cake .
Raw Personally , growing up I 've usually just eat it raw after it 's ripened . That 's the only form that i 've a experienced a persimmon . Nonethless , a quick google reveals use as a sauce : This morning , I cooked the last of the mushy persimmons into a second batch of persimmon sauce . The first , served over bread pudding on a whim one evening , was so popular that it was deemed worthy of the last persimmons . It 's simple and delicious , primarily because , as I discovered , a generous serving of nutmeg and a bit of meyer lemon is the best way to season persimmon anything ! Source : <URL> In this article , Oakland Garden Kitchen blogger , also lists a recipes for <URL> published by David Lebovitz . Lebovitz has a very comprehensive <URL> . Persimmon in Bread In this blog , he provides an adaptation of <URL> , " Beard on Bread " , Persimmon Bread recipe . If you do n't like this version of the recipe . Epicurean has <URL> . Persimmon as an Entree Wine Press NW also once published a recipe of use of persimmon as a <URL> .
Joe , Whole wheat puff pastry . It 's expensive , and hard to find , though . Or try another recipe . If the recipe you 're using calls for puff pastry , then the flavor and texture of the puff pastry is going to be a big part of the dish . It never works very well to substitute a primary ingredient in a recipe .
Butter melts at such a low temp that this would work . You would want as low a flame as you can . I would not recommend it , however . If you forget it the metal is thin enough to burn through and at least make a mess - worst case it will ignite the butter , atomize the aluminum which will unverifiably hasten the onset of Alzheimer 's , and burn your house to the ground . Butter melts at 90-95F . You can just leave the butter in the sun for a few minutes .
Harold McGee tackled alkaline noodles a while back . He found that baking baking soda actually changes it from sodium bicarbonate to sodium carbonate . This is a reasonable substitute for the kansui called for in alkaline noodles and can be substituted 1:1 in recipes . The noodles may not get AS yellow as they would with both alkalines present in kansui but it 's a small price to pay for not having to hunt down that ingredient . <URL> The key part : Just spread a layer of soda on a foil-covered baking sheet and bake it at 250 to 300 degrees for an hour . You 'll lose about a third of the soda 's weight in water and carbon dioxide , but you gain a stronger alkali . Keep baked soda in a tightly sealed jar to prevent it from absorbing moisture from the air . And avoid touching or spilling it . It 's not lye , but it 's strong enough to irritate .
If your caramel rolls are the kind with a sticky , gooey mass in the bottom of the pan that is flipped upside down out of the pan , then I would say that the rolls wo n't really get good and caramely in a stoneware pan . You 'd be better off baking one pan of rolls at a time in the metal pan . While one pan is rising and baking , just chill the other part of the dough ... either plain in a bowl , or prepared into a log that only needs to be cut . If the caramel rolls are more like a cinnamon bun , then the stoneware dishes should do fine in a pinch . This is assuming they are glazed stoneware and not terra cotta . Cooking time will increase a bit as the stoneware will take longer to heat up ( it will also retain the heat longer when removed from the oven ) . You could always just go out and buy some foil pans . I do that when I make rolls ( caramel , cinnamon , and sticky ) for the local fire company 's carnival . They go through 17 = 20 dozen rolls each year . I know baking rolls can be a lot of work , so what I have found to be very helpful , is to make the dough the night before baking . Cover with cling film , and let it have a slow rise in the fridge all night . ( you will get improved flavor too . ) The next day , divide the cold dough up and prepare as usual . They will take a little longer for the rise in the pan after shaping , but it sure is a lot easier on you .
You may use all sorts of pumpkins and squashes ( a Cucurbita moschata or Cucurbita pepo may be called either , depending on variety ) to make a pie . The Halloween types may not be the best choice : they tend to be stringy , not very sweet , and sometimes over treated with pesticides . Instead look for the small varieties ( around 5 lbs . ) called Sugar , Long Pie , or Trickster . When making the pumpkin pur&eacute;e for a pie from scratch it is important to deal with the water content of the pumpkin . After you <URL> , you may need to use a cheesecloth to wring the pur&eacute;e .
<URL> has about 80 % fat , 15 % water and 5 % solids . Depending on where you are located <URL> has 48 % fat ( UK ) , 40 % ( Canada ) and the remaining fraction is obviously water and little solids . Supposed , you need 100g butter in your receipe . This means that the dough will have 80g fat and 15g water ( for a simple calculation I omit the content of the milk solids ) . If you want to substitute butter with double cream , you will need about 165g double cream to have the same fat content in the dough as if you used butter . The problem is the water that you will have in the dough : You will have 83g water in the dough which is 5,5 times more . Since there is very likely little water in a biscuit receipe and it is not possible to adjust the amount of other liquids ( because there are no other liquids ) I doubt that this substitution will work with a biscuit receipe . With a cake receipe you might have more luck ( e.g. leave 83g - 15g = 68g milk out ) . Making a simple buttercream ( as known as American buttercream ) with double cream is not possible because it has almost no liquid . You could try other fillings like <URL> . I am certain that there are plenty <URL> for cake fillings with double cream .
Water freezes at 0 ° C ( or 32 ° F ) , but ethanol freezes at -114 ° C , so you can guess your vermouth with freeze somewhere in between those two temperatures . Noilly Prat is 18 % ABV , or 15 % alcohol by weight , which means it would freeze at around -6 ° C to -7 ° C , or 19-21 ° F. Your freezer may or may not be tuned to be that cold , but if not , you should be able to crank it a bit and get your Noilly Prat just frozen . That said , I would not really recommend leaving an ice cube tray full of vermouth hanging out in your freezer . You may notice that old ice tastes funny . Even though you may not notice your freezer smelling , that 's partly because the cold blocks smells . Just because you do n't notice them does n't mean the odors are n't there to ruin your Noilly Prat . I would recommend leaving them for a day until just frozen ( covered if you like ) , and then moving them to a Ziploc for long term storage . All that said , freezing will not halt oxidation altogether , but it will help , as only the exposed surfaces areas should be able to be oxidized . Since ice cubes by design have a relatively high surface area , you may consider minimizing the exposure to oxygen by other means . If you have a vacuum sealer , using that would be a fairly simple means to limit that exposure , but a similar effect can be done with a simple Ziploc bag , as described <URL> ( note this link is focused on using this technique for cooking , but it is translatable to your scenario ) . Drop your ice cubes in a bag , and then slowly lower the bag into a container of cold water ( the colder the better , here , to minimize melting ) , leaving the seal exposed . I sometimes <URL> things onto the bag to weigh it down as well . Then begin closing the seal , and lower the bag further into the water as you continue sealing , so that only the unsealed portion is exposed . Finally complete the seal and you should have a reasonably low-oxygen environment to mitigate further degradation of your vermouth .
You can certainly use a Dutch oven ( DO ) for cooking sauce . A good DO is probably one of the most versatile pieces of equipment in the kitchen . It cooks , it bakes , it even fries ! It will certainly make sauce and the high sides will even help prevent splatters . I would n't worry about the lack of a long handle , the weight of the DO will keep it stable . If anything , the weight is its primary fault . A good DO is also a heavy DO . It can be a bit daunting to lug out every time . Since you mentioned Le Creuset , I 'm assuming you 're talking about enameled cast iron - not ' normal ' cast iron . And hence have n't addressed that you certain sauces and such may not be well suited to ' normal ' cast iron , but enameled is fine all around . Can you use a enameled Dutch oven for sauces ? Absolutely . Should you ? There are less weighty options , but at the end of the day it will make the same sauce .
The main things that Parmesan cheese can add to a salad are fattiness and salt . The first thing that comes to mind for me is bacon . You could probably also make a yummy main dish salad ( or hearty first course ) by adding duck or a cured meat such as salami . If you 're not interested in adding meat , how about olives ? Those would serve similar purposes . Other options might be marinated artichoke hearts or mushrooms . Just make sure you choose ones that are n't too tart , as they might add to the effect of the lemon vinaigrette .
No , it 's not unusual at all . See <URL> for examples where nuoc-mam is used to marinate chicken , or just type nuoc mam marinade in Google :) There are a lot of examples , including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or even <URL> marinated ( as well as <URL> , of course ) with nuoc-mam ( and most of the time lemongrass ) , and a fair share of them are recipes by ' natives ' from South-East Asia , not only fusion food addicts ( even if <URL> ! ) . Some salads like goi tom or goi ga also involve nuoc mam marinade .
well veggie/cheese wise , i would recommend either of : Chickpeas drained in salt water and paprika and grilled in the oven for about 10 minutes Portobello mushrooms cut into large chunks fried halloumi large chunks of celery sauteed in salt pepper , and chili
Okra is great in curry . I 'll do an okra and tomato curry , but you can find plenty of recipes online .
Compound butter is a very nice accompaniment for fish . " Compound butter is a mixture of softened butter and at least one other ingredient . Some ideas for compound butter are : herbs , spices , citrus zest/juice , honey , fresh mint , soft cheeses ( like goat ) , fresh or dried peppers , and nuts ... you get the idea -- this list could be endless ! " You can cook the fish on its own and then put the compound butter on top to melt over it . While soft the butter can be put into a piping bag and piped as rosettes and refrigerated until ready to use . Makes for a nice presentation . Another common accompaniment to fish is mango salso or a combination of tropical fruits ( mango pineapple for example ) . This seemed like a good link for ideas for sauces for Haddock : <URL>
Capers are generally very salty , and not what you want as a peppercorn substitute . I think that black/white/red / madagascar peppercorn would be a fine substitute . The distinction between the different pepper flavours is very subtle , and not one to worry about much .
It 's a different flavor . Romano is sharper , more grassy ; parmesan is nuttier and sweeter . I actually prefer romano where I have a lot of other strong flavors . If there 's other sharp flavors in a dish , such as olives , chili pepper , or capers ( e.g. , puttanesca ) , I 'll go with romano which seems to stand up better to the robust flavors . For something with a more subtle flavor such as a ragu bolognese , butter or cream-based sauces , risotto , etc. . I feel that a good parmeggiano reggiano can stand up to the other flavors in the dish without overwhelming them . If cost is your main concern , I 've had some parms from Argentina that are actually pretty good . Reggiano is definitely better , but depending on what you 're using it for , it might be an option . I would n't use it in something like a risotto or fettuchine alfredo where it plays a key role in the dish , but if you 're just grating it on top it will work fine . An in-between option is Grana Padano , which is advertised as a " budget " substitute for reggiano . In my experience , it 's pretty good , but where I live it 's only a little cheaper .
end question
start question
Is it necessary to " heal " clay pots ?
TL ; DR : You should . I do n't own clay pots myself , so take this with a grain of salt . I found some information on the <URL> called Clay Cooking 101 . It has recommendations as well as an <URL> . The process apparently is called seasoning , rather than healing . Here is a short summary from the page : Seasoning Your Clay Pot Give your new clay pot love and it will love you back ! Cookware that will be used over a direct heat source on the stovetop needs to be seasoned before its first use . This strengthens the pot and prevents it from cracking . It will also make the pot more durable so it can provide you with many years of fantastic cooking . Now for the black particles in the food , I 'm not certain what that could be ; so it 's probably best to play it safe and not eat the food .
Doing both is possible , but there is no point . For both , you need a <URL> , and this is a good contender for a gadget not worth its shelf space in a home kitchen . For a good chocolate , you have to mix the melted combination of base chocolate and additional ingredients for hours ( Wikipedia says 6 for low quality , up to 78 for best quality ) , and this is what the conche does for you . For a nice structure and shine , you also want to temper the chocolate afterwards and cool it under appropriate conditions . Chocolate is made by pressing roasted cocoa beans to cocoa liquor ( consists of cocoa butter and cocoa solids ) . The dry remainder of the beans is then ground to cocoa powder ( and sometimes also deacidified in a <URL> ) . The cocoa butter can be separated from the liquor . The pure liquor can be tempered and sold as high-end baking chocolate , also called " unsweetened chocolate " in the US ( low-end blocks of " baking chocolate " are mostly cocoa powder mixed with hydrogenated vegetable fat ) . To create bars of chocolate , chocolate creators like Lindt put cocoa liquor together with sugar in a conche to create different grades of dark chocolate ( US name : semi-sweetened chocolate ) , or also add milk or milk solids to create milk chocolate . Lower grade semisweet chocolate has cocoa powder added , so a 72 % chocolate will always have 72 % cocoa bean products and 28 % sugar , but depending on the brand , the ratio of cocoa solids and cocoa butter will vary , which will have effect on its behavior in confectionery ( a higher ratio of cocoa butter will produce a smoother chocolate with more shine ) . If you insist on changing the darkness of a chocolate you have and achieve reasonable quality , you have to throw together the needed ingredients , conche them , and temper them . For example , you could start with 100 g 60 % semi-sweet dryish chocolate , add 80 g cocoa butter and 20 g cocoa powder , and you will end up with 200 g of smooth 80 % semi-sweet chocolate , if you do it right . Given the prices for high quality raw materials , energy requirements and space taken up by a conche , and the availability of different grades of chocolate , I do n't see any reason to go through all of this instead of directly buying good quality 80 % chocolate . This all assumes that the final product you want is pure chocolate . If you are making , say , a chocolate flavored custard , where you mix ganache into custard , and you have a chocolate bar darker than what the recipe specifies , you can get a perfectly good solution by first dissolving sugar in the warm cream and making the ganache with it , and then adding it to the custard . Other recipes which work with chocolate mixes ( e.g. cake layer batters ) function in a similar way - add your ingredient ( cocoa powder if your chocolate is too light , sugar if it is too dark ) to a wet ingredient which will dissolve it , and then mix the melted chocolate in as usual .
Sure , but the rest of the onion gets mushy and unpalatable after they 've grown for a bit . Some people eat the sprouts ; they have a lot of protein , so they 're popular with vegans and other protein challenged groups .
If you mean like a potpie or a TV dinner ? Yes you 're fine , go for it . If you 're really worried about it here is the rule . ( been a few years since I took serveSafe ) When reheating foods you want the internal temperature to reach 165 degrees F. ( 74C ) for 15 seconds . In practice ( at home NOT at the restaurant ) just get it nice and hot . Note : Homemade foods generally need to be carefully reheated but not frozen dinners etc. . They cook them pretty good at the factory .
Well , technically there is a minor difference between biga and poolish , but often the terms are used interchangeably . Just for clarification : A poolish uses equal parts ( by weight ) of flour and water and very little yeast ( sources vary between 0.1 % to 1 % fresh yeast / 0.03 % 1 to 0.33 % dry yeast of flour weight ) . This leads to a poolish being rather liquid and easily mixable with a spoon . A biga has a lower water content , usually in the range of 40 % to 60 % of flour weight and a yeast content of 1 % fresh / 0.33 % dry . It will be quite firm in the beginning and may require some kneading to mix dry and wet ingredients properly . But should you explicitly knead ? Actually , you do n't need to . Both pre-ferments will rest for hours . During that time the gluten will both develop ( - > see the principles of <URL> ) and be diminished to some extent by the growing yeast . You do n't want or need to mess with this process . Just mix flour , water and yeast until somewhat homogenous ( no dry patches ) and let both yeast and enzyme activity do their thing . You will observe that the " uneven " preferment will change texture over time , yeast starts to bubble and when it 's ready to use , it will be nice and even . 1 Yes , that 's a really , really tiny amount .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
Myth busters beware , are you ready ? Go ! No brining nor seasoning will make your chicken too salty . 5 % , 7 % , 10 % , The only sodium saturating process known to men is the injection , the needle injection , the so called " added solution " . If you 're only brining , you 're miles away from needle injection consequences , yet another misunderstood process . Brining is not to be feared , injections is . Edit ( after all these comments/questions showed up ) : Brining is a complex subject which I can not address here , and a lot of myths are floating around , mostly related to nuances , while people do not understand the enormous impact of : osmosis vs. diffusion , which ingredient are real actors in brining and which are not , among salt sugar fat acids alcohol herbs/flavors spices/Pungency / [ scoville scale ] what happens during passive brining vs. active cooking , including the effects of slow cooking vs. high heat the type of meat , the thickness of the meat , the duration of the brine/marination . You can debate this thing for days and years , but what matters here is the question . The assumption is " I marinated ( 5 % ) a chicken and now that my marination is over , I 'm thinking of seasoning ( salt ) before cooking . Am I running a risk to saturate the end product with sodium ? " The clear answer is NO , as long as your brine did n't last weeks , or your meat was not previously injected with a sodium solution , e.g 12 % or 15 % . The only time you have to worry about salt seasoning is when your meat has already been salted with injection , or if you just managed to cook a peace of meat with a higher than 5 % salt solution for more than a week , which wo n't happen unless we are talking about dried cured meat , which is an aberration as I 've never seen it . Please be careful with references to articles , books , so called scientific published papers . You really need to read them slowly and carefully , interpretation is key , understand where they came from , who wrote them , who paid for it , who 's getting paid for it , which is the source , ... etc , even if the almighty gods of molecular gastronomy are named on it . FYI : I 've been fighting a few USDA/FDA strict rules for years ( e.g. caning , meat temp ) , while believing their overall work is awesome .
The general prescription for water bottles is to recycle them , not reuse them . According to a <URL> : Reuse of polycarbonate plastic bottles is generally not recommended by commercial bottled water manufacturers , as it may pose a health risk from two perspectives . First , everyday wear and tear from repeated washings and reuse can lead to physical breakdown of the plastic , such as visible thinning or cracks . Bacteria can harbor in the cracks , posing a health risk . Secondly , reuse of plastic water bottles can lead to bacterial contamination unless washed regularly . If a consumer wishes to reuse a plastic water bottle , it should be washed after each use in mild detergent only and rinsed well ( 9 ) . The plastic should not be subjected to extreme , hot temperatures or harsh detergents , and should be carefully inspected for physical breakdown prior to reuse . Additionally , the narrow opening can make it difficult to clean and dry properly .
So long as we are discussing this topic . The Center for Disease Control has a specific answer for <URL> and their answer is NO . However , According to <URL> pasteurization causes a breakdown in milk-caesin protein which after uptake through Peyer 's patch can promote allergic sensitivity . There are other controversial claims that the higher temperatures required for milk pasteurization and boiling breaks down some of the ingredients with negative effects . There is a <URL> that counters the FDA facts with other scientific papers . However , it 's been noted that their paper may not be heavily grounded in rigorous scientific data . There is a more idepth look in <URL> to <URL> seems to cover the spectrum of myths based on scientific evidence and critiques . Some of the points discussed are : Raw Milk is not a high-risk food ( in today 's age ) . Raw Milk does have protective properties to allergies and Asthma . also noted in <URL> The notion of " the loss of nutrients due to pasteurization is insignificant " is based on an antiquated nutritional paradigm . Pasteurization and temperature does reorganize some of the milk proteins , but the effects of that is unknown . You may wish to watch the presentation , the gist of the discussion start at about 8 minutes in . In the end , if you believe pasteurization has negative nutritional effects , then boiling raw milk will , too ( minus the safety of pasteurized milk ) .
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
Assuming that there were stock pots manufactured with handles that broke off , they would likely have been recalled by the CPSC . It <URL> that the CPSC has only ever recalled <URL> that was based on a single report of a handle breaking off . The problematic stock pot was sold by a liquidation company . Based on this , I 'd assume that any NSF certified stock pot that you buy from a reputable retailer is going to be safe .
Safe ? Or good to eat ? Pesticides usually do n't penetrate thick-skinned produce ( oranges , etc ) , so as long as you 're not using the skin , there 's not a lot to worry about . They 're not the best pumpkins to use for other reasons ( linked in comments ) . In summary , the smaller " sugar " pumpkin is better for cooking , if you have the option .
After dumping out a couple of jars of failed not-quite-fermented fennel I wondered , " Could fennel have antimicrobial properties ? " < < facepalm >> Why , yes . Yes it could : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Granted , these are about the essential oil and not the whole plant . So I ca n't be sure this is the problem , but it seems very likely . Maybe a little fennel mixed in with something else wo n't muck up the fermentation process , whereas a whole jar of fennel can . And though it 's hard to know , I suppose there could be a safety concern . Lacto fermentation protects us through ( 1 ) salt , ( 2 ) oxygen depletion , and ( 3 ) acid production . Based on what I saw with the failed batches , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) may have been below normal . If salt-tolerant critters were to survive ... that could be bad .
Salt is not necessary , it 's just a flavour thing , a common personal preference I suspect you 'll get a saltier taste by putting it in the water , than putting it in the sauce for the same volume of salt Hot water is not necessary too , you can prepare dried pasta with cold water . But it does n't taste right to me , so does salt less pasta :-)
Official : No definitive answer , there are different governing bodies and plastic wraps ( cling films ) in the US/Europe . There are also different plastic wraps for different purposes , microwave safe , safe for use with fatty foods , so on . Whether its safe or not will depend on the product used and most likely the time boiled for . The UKs Food Standard Agency <URL> - " Do not use cling films where they may melt into the food , such as in conventional ovens or with pots and pans on cooker hobs " . The cling film industry are understandably much more <URL> . Practical : I 've poached eggs using cling film for ages and I 'm still here . Read the plastic wrap boxes for warnings and choose the plastic wrap that 's most suited . Poach an egg as described <URL> ( as of 2016 , link requires registration to read ) and check if the wrap comes away cleanly , If so you 're good . I 'd revisit this advice if your recipe called for cooking like this for longer than 5-10 minutes , there are likely more suitable products/recipes for extensive boil-in-the-bag manoeuvres .
If you have a recipe that already produces a dense fudgy brownie and you 're looking to do it without oil , you 're just out of luck . If you 're looking to produce a dense fudgy brownie and wondered if , while you were at it , you might cut back on the oil ... NO , but here are some suggestions for making a cakey brownie more dense and " fudgey " : Follow Tim 's advice above on using butter instead of oil . It 's not doing anything as far as calories but it will produce better flavor vs. a neutral oil . However , particularly if you 're planning to put nuts in them , you could replace a portion of the vegetable oil with walnut or hazelnut oil for enhanced nutty flavor . Replace half of the whole eggs with egg yolks . Cakiness in brownies is partly due to the use of whole eggs . Egg whites have a drying effect on baked goods . In converting a brownie recipe I did , I used 2 egg yolks for each whole egg . Replace part of the granulated sugar with corn syrup . They hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture and retain it ) of the corn syrup will create a more dense moist result . I think I replaced about half the sugar with corn syrup . The added moisture of the corn syrup will help to off-set the loss of moisture from removing the egg whites . Method/Technique : Heat chocolate , butter , cocoa powder over a hot water bath until chocolate is melted . Stir to blend to a smooth consistency . Set aside to cool slightly . Beat egg yolks/whole egg with sugar and corn syrup until thick , light in color , and mixture forms a " ribbon " . Combine dry ingredients and make a well in the center . Temper chocolate into egg/sugar mixture . Mix to blend well . Add to dry ingredients and fold together just until moistened . Pour into greased pan and bake until set .
I posted this question in a hurry ( because as you can imagine ) , there was a lot of anxiety concerning whether it was safe to have dinner or not . It turns out that this ham is not safe ; I will quote the USDA : The plastic bone guard covering the exposed bone is used to keep the bone from breaking the outer wrap . If left on the meat during cooking , a 325 or 350 ° F oven temperature may not melt the plastic but still give off an abnormal chemical odor or taste . Cutting away the meat around the exposed area will not necessarily solve this potential food safety problem because the penetration of the chemical into the meat will be unknown . If meat is cooked in a closed container , the chemicals may penetrate the entire piece of meat . USDA advises not to eat the ham ; discard it . Source : <URL> Quite a disappointment unfortunately .
I wonder where you have read it . Your link does n't help , maybe you linked the wrong question ? It talks about using a stainless pan with oil . If you are talking about true saute ( very quick movement of bite-sized pieces of food on a very hot pan ) , it is completely impossible without oil . If you are misusing the term to mean shallow frying , you can do it without oil in a coated pan , if you take care not to overheat to the point of damaging the coating . Stainless steel pans have to always be used with oil or other fats , else they will stick . The taste of food browned without fat ( in a coated pan ) will also be different from that of food browned in fat , because fat is needed for important flavor-producing reactions . It is up to you if you like the different taste or not . You can braise food in a broth , meaning that you put a small amount of broth in the pan , add the food and wait for it to cook through . This works with stainless steel pans too . But this is not comparable to either sauteeing or shallow frying . The temperature does not exceed 100 Celsius , which is way too low for Maillard and other flavor-developing reactions . So , if your recipe calls for sauteeing , browning , grilling or frying the food , you can not use this method as a substitute . In summary , you seem to have been misinformed . This is not possible , frying always requires oil , and browning without oil requires a PTFE coated pan ( or a fresh ceramic coated one - they tend to lose their antistick properties with time ) . Update You can sweat vegetables without oil , as mentioned in the corrected link . This is very different from both the true sauteeing you will find in textbooks and the quick browning usually meant in recipes which call to start with sauteing the ingredients . The result are softened vegetable pieces suitable for e.g. stir frying or mixing into chunky sauces . If you are going to make a soup or stew , do n't bother using it instead of browning , as it does n't add flavor and a soup does n't mind the vegetables weeping into it . For other applications , you can try it and decide if the taste is good enough for your purposes . The process is simple . Cut your vegetables finely ( in the 4-7 mm range ) . Pour 3-5 mm of water into the pan and add a level layer of vegetables , up to 1.5 cm thick . Turn on the stove on slow to medium heat and leave them largely undisturbed . Wait until they are done - they will have softened and lost some moisture . As you are not using oil , you have to watch the food closely , because if all the liquid evaporates , the food will heat enough to stick and scorch . But do n't stir much , because the vegetables need time in contact with the pan/broth to heat through , not to get a new side exposed to the heat each second . You could do it with constant stirring , this is the risotto method , but you will end up with preparation times similar to risotto ( > 40 min ) while waiting for the vegetables to heat through despite the stir . So it takes a little experience to know when the bottom of the vegetables is done but the liquid is not yet evaporated , without stirring to take a look at what is happening on the bottom . In the end , it is up to you to decide if you really want to bother . You get a higher probability of failure ( risk of scorching it ) , higher effort ( the need to watch it closely ) and less taste . If you feel that the fat reduction makes up for it , do it .
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
What about using mochi , an Asian pounded rice paste ? It 's a similar -- though not identical -- texture , it 's available in sweet and savory forms , and it 's held together by the starch in rice rather than anything gelatin , so it 's vegetarian . You can get plain unflavored mochi at many Asian food stores ; it may take some looking , as it 's more often sold sweet and filled with bean paste in the US . I 've had it in savory Korean dishes and I believe it 's used in savory Korean dishes as well .
end question
start question
How do I stop onigiri from falling apart ?
Things to try Rice should still be warm Handle rice gently , do n't squeeze it Does it fall apart because it is sticking to your hands ? If so : Use warm salt water on your hands ( not dripping wet hands though ) Rinse the rice more before cooking to remove excess surface starches . The process is : Rinse in bowl of water , gently tumble , let stand 20 minutes , change water . Repeat until rinse water runs clear If this still fails to solve this sticky issue , you can use cling film ( plastic wrap ) as a guide and release agent on your hands . Peel the plastic off as you wrap the nori on
I recommend <URL> I have it and use it every week to make lemonade : It 's absolutely delicious . It 's all I drink , no more soda . Last week I made cherry juice . De-pitted the cherries and repeted the same steps as above . I 've also made carrot and beet juice , but they test very strong and work better when you mix them with other juices - orange juice for example . My experience with juicing grapefruit is not good . The juice comes out very bitter and tastes very strong . In general , to reduce the bitterness in citrus juices , peel the fruit first before adding it to the juicer . As in the lemonade example , I sometimes use the lemon peels to make <URL> , or keep a few in the fridge to garnish my coffee . If you have no use for them , they will at least make your garbage smell very good . Maintenance You need to clean the juicer after each use , which can be discouraging . If you have someone who lives with you , have them help . My husband peels and juices the lemons , I wash the juicer parts while he mixes the lemonade in the pitcher . It takes us about 15 minutes from start to finish . Experiment You can throw anything in the juicer as long as you remove large pits and cut it to a size that fits the opening . It will fit a whole lemon but you need to halve an apple . The juicer - at least the model I have - also comes with a recipe book . Not that I ever used it . I just use whatever I have left over and try to make something tasty .
You can not easily create a powder from real chocolate , which contains a great deal of cocoa butter , making it very difficult to powder . While you can chop it finely , that still may be less than ideal for quickly creating hot chocolate . Instead , based on an idea from <URL> , you can make a thick ganache to use as essentially a hot chocolate concentrate , that can be kept in the refrigerator for a few days , or the freezer for a couple of months : Prepare a gancahe with 12 ounces of chocolate to 1 cup of heavy cream , with 1/4 tsp of salt . Cool it and then scoop it into single serving portions ( about 3 tablespoons ) to store , wrapping each individually . To make the hot chocolate , heat one portion with one cup of milk ( microwaving is especially convenient ) until it is hot . More traditionally , for an instant powder mix , you would combine cocoa powder ( often dutched ) , powdered sugar , and possibly other seasonings -- if you want it to work with a water base , you would also include dried milk powder . Many recipes are easily available on the internet .
To prevent this from happening , apart from what <URL> , check the temperature with a thermometer . Eggs start coagulating around 60ºC . If you keep the temperature around 55ºC you are pasteurizing the eggs at the same time .
Many of the dried noodles that are marketed as " udon " -- at least in my experience in the USA -- are actually mislabeled , thinner noodles like <URL> or even <URL> . I would suggest buying the semi-dried variety that are usually packaged in vacuum sealed plastic . This variety is shelf stable , but it can often be found in the refrigerated section of Asian mega-marts . The noodles will already be almost full size before cooking .
<URL> He writes it better than I can , so I 'll just quote him . I 've used the second method he describes , but after watching the video below , the other looks much easier ... The breast halves should each have a flap of meat called the chicken tenderloin ( or chicken tenders or strips ) . Lifting the tenderloin should reveal a white tendon . I recommend two ways to trim off this tough tendon . The most popular method is to grab the tendon with your fingers and pull on it while scraping with your knife to release the tendon from the breast . Continue to lift and scrape until the tendon is completely removed . Alternatively , you can use a sharp boning knife and slice along both sides of the tendon ( without slicing through the tendon ) . Then lift any part of the tendon that has been separated from the breast and use your boning knife the cut any parts where the tendon has not cleanly separated from the meat . <URL>
Despite the myths ( and some here will disagree with me ) , the large flavor molecules in brines do not penetrate into meats more than a milimeter or two at the surface . This is not the same with the salt , which will slowly migrate throughout the body of the cut . Marinades can add flavor , but it is again a surface treatment , mostly from the marinade literally sticking to the surface of the meat . Mops are the same idea . As you have mentioned , you can inject a liquid into the meat , and then it is inside , but it will not penetrate past where it is injected . Therefore , your best plan , depending on what the star ingredient you must use is , is to find a way to get it more intensely applied to the surface of the meat . Depending on what you have , this may be to : Incorporate it into your dry rub Incorporate it into your mop ; for liquids , possibly reducing it first ( for example , an ale ) to intensify the flavor without the bulk from the liquid Reduce it and inject it , knowing that the flavor will pretty much stay where it is injected Rules permitting , incorporate it into your sauce ( again , possibly reducing it for intensity ) The more bulk of the substance you can get to adhere to the meat , or inject into the meat , through these methods , the more powerful the affect will be . Since taste is closely related to aroma , I would suggest sticking to exterior treatments such as rubs and mops , where the aroma will trigger the taste perception more directly .
The smell of garlic is due to sulfur compounds . When you rub your hands against stainless steel , the iron of the stainless steel will react with some small volume of those compounds , but much more will remain in your hands . Rubbing your hands against an iron object <URL> . The sulfur smell compounds are water soluble to slightly water soluble , so rinsing your hands in cold water and then soap and water should work as well as the recipes suggesting Noxzema , lemon juice , salt , baking soda , raw potatoes , tomato paste solutions , or mouthwash .
With broccoli or cauliflower , if you cook it for too long , it 'll get mushy and fall apart . Boiling will exacerbate that a bit , so if you 're looking for firmer cauliflower , I 'd recommend steaming it , and keeping an eye on it . When the fork goes in without a lot of work , it 's done .
If the ice cream mix is setting up but tending to leave a buttery coating in your mouth the best thing would be to try cutting back on the cream and replacing it with whole milk or half &amp; half . If it 's a recipe that you 've used in another machine with great success but it does n't seem to in this one , it 's probably a case of how long the frozen bowl is staying cold . I have used the freezer bowl ice cream attachment for KitchenAid machines and have been frustrated more times than not as it does n't freeze up as it should . Too much sugar can also be a culprit in the mix not freezing quick enough . Sugar does n't freeze so a really sweet mix is going to be softer . You might try decreasing sugar content slightly ... not too much or you will end up with an icier result ( If adding fruit to ice cream , combine the chopped fruit with some sugar and cook just a little to allow the sugar to dissolve and the moisture to evaporate . The sugar soaking into the fruit will keep the fruit softer in the ice cream instead of forming icy chunks of fruit . Or , just mix in fruit preserves . ) Make sure that the mix is VERY cold , ideally chilled for several hours or overnight before it goes into the the freezer . If time is n't on your side , then quick-chill it in a metal bowl or container in an ice bath and stir frequently to help chill it throughout . The primary indicator for most ice cream freezers is that the dasher starts to sound labored in its attempt to stir the mix . Or if cranking by hand , you start to sound labored in your attempt to crank it ! Another factor that can affect freezing of ice cream ( although probably not the case in your instance since you do n't have control of the speed ) is the speed of the machine . In the case of the KitchenAid insulated bowl for freezing ice cream , they warn not to go faster than " stir " or the mix wo n't have a chance to freeze to the side of the bowl before the dasher scrapes it . I would try one of their recipes with it to see if it freezes up firm enough without turning to butter and then compare differences between your current recipe and theirs , adjusting sugar , milk to heavy cream ratio , etc. .
If you are freezing the tortillas yourself and do n't mind putting in a little extra work in the beginning to get more convenience later , I would separate the tortillas with waxed paper ( actually I use the paper sheets that are waxed on one side , intended for bakeries ) . What this buys you is the ability to pull out one or two tortillas as you need them . They will defrost just fine in the pan that you are going to warm/brown them in anyway . If you customarily run through a dozen tortillas , then you probably do n't want to bother . But if that is the case then you probably are n't freezing your tortillas in the first place .
Cook on a lower heat , in a pan with a thicker base , to distribute the heat . Check every now and again , and add water if the soup has become too thick . Also , the occasional stir can only help . Consider buying a slow cooker -- there are very cheap models that do the job well .
I used to remove the paddle before the second rising to avoid breaking the bread . Did not find any other good way of doing it .
For hard , chemical-resistant surfaces such as marble , bleach or peroxide cleaners will help . On things like counters , pots and pans , a Magic Eraser will often take off the stain . Sometimes a harsher abrasive like Comet or Barkeep 's Friend will be needed . Softer or porous materials , including cloth and many plastics often CAN NOT BE UNSTAINED . In my kitchen we treat turmeric like a dangerous chemical -- isolate , contain , and plan ahead to limit exposure . It 's just that destructive . You might as well tie-dye or bleach white any clothing you get turmeric on ; it India it is used as a dye for saris because it will semi-permanently tint cloth . You can brush off the dry powder harmessly , but when it is moistened and allowed to sit for a moment , the color is pretty much permanent . Edit : UV + peroxide : I saw a patent for removing turmeric stains from upholstery using UV light and hydrogen peroxide . You might try soaking fabrics in peroxide or Oxyclean ( which uses peroxide ) and leaving then out in the sun . Ca n't hurt right ? Edit : strategies to manage turmeric without making a mess Plan ahead where you 'll use it , and which utensils and vessels will hold it , so you do n't mess up anything you do n't need to . Re-use already turmeric-stained items so you do n't wreck anything new Mortars and pestles , tupperware , wooden and soft plastic utensils are a lost cause . At least the stain is purely cosmetic ? ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS wear an apron . Keep spilt powder dry ( it wo n't stain ) and brush it off with a paper towel into the garbage . Brushing away promptly keeps you from inadvertently spilling liquid on it , or wiping it with a wet towel during cleanup . That is , unless you want a neon-green counter and towel ? Whenever you spill something containing turmeric , promptly wipe it off , to reduce staining . Hard ceramic and porcelain are immune to staining unless the surface is rough . Try to use these for storage . Glass will stain . Stainless steel is resistant but not immune . With these strategies , I find I can use turmeric regularly without problems .
You can let it ripe at room temperature . If you want to slow down the ripening process , put it in the fridge , although this will affect the mango negatively . If you want to speed up the process , put it in a bag with a banana . When the mango is ready to eat , it will be slightly soft if you press it and you can smell the mango flesh through the peel . The green colour will not totally disappear .
One strong possibility is that the recipe is overleavened , which will cause it to blow up fast and then collapse . <URL> recommends 1 teaspoon baking powder or 1/4 teaspoon baking soda per cup of flour as a guideline . If your recipe is much beyond that , suspect that is the issue .
Slice off 1/2 " of the top of the onion ( opposite the root ) Place onion root side up , and make slices all the way through , staying at least 1/2 " away from the root Flip it over and spread apart the leaves This is best described with <URL> . Alternatively , if you 're willing to drop a few hundred dollars , you can buy a bloomin ' onion cutter . This is what restaurants use . There are cheaper alternatives , but I ca n't vouch for their quality or ease of use .
As a rule of thumb for a whole fish , and not a fillet - the gills should be bright red the skin/scales should be bright and shiny like metal this fish should n't really smell of anything except ' watery ' the flesh should rebound quickly when pressed the eyes should be bright and clear really fresh fish is also quite slimey to touch if it 's straight out of the water . I remember being quite surprised at this from my first fishing trip a few years back .
If you are speaking of a salmon filet , you must remove the pin bones one by one . The easiest way to do it is with tweezers or needle nosed pliers . This <URL> demonstrates the technique : Run the back of your knife across the line where the bones are , from tail to head , to make them pop out more . Pull each bone , on an angle towards the head of the fish
" Fibrous " and " dry " are good descriptions for bean which have n't been prepared properly . Mostly , they have either not been soaked long enough , or have n't been cooked for long enough . Normal times for beans are about 12 hours soaking in water and another 1-3 hours cooking , depending on the desired texture . Also , sometimes beans can be cooked with about quarter/half a teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda , which softens them nicely . That should be a start towards solving your problem . To answer your question , I think that white beans and pinto beans are a good start ( you can make a chili , for instance ) , and that chickpeas are also a very good starting point . Cooked chickpeas are great as-is , and can be seasoned with cumin , salt and lemon juice for a nice snack .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between a burrito and a tortilla ?
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
The pyramid teabag allows for more effective and faster extraction . This is because the tea bag retains its 3 dimensional shape , so there is plenty of space for the tea leaves , and more of their surface area is exposed for extraction . A conventional teabag actually becomes smaller , and there is less space and the tea leaves are pressed onto each other , creating a compressed little ball of tea . I think whoever invented the pyramid teabag had that in mind . I am not suggesting that the world was desperate for it though ;)
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
No , it wo n't be different . It is , however , a bit harder . The issues are mainly : It 's harder to get the heat away from the food . So you end up cooking with some direct heat . This can be avoided by using a small amount of well soaked , large wood chunks and get them smoking with some normal charcoal . You should also use indirect heat by stacking the chunks on one side of the grill . If you use wood chips , this wo n't work . They burn too fast and need too much of an ignition source . Heat insulation is n't very good . The walls are thin and you have to remove the whole lid to tend your food . The heat dissipation can be a real issue for long low and slow recipes . Smokers either tend to be well insulated ( brick or ceramic ) or have small doors so you can access your food from the side . Adding fuel can be a pain . It 's made easier if you have a grill surface that is hinged . If you do n't , I 'd suggest getting one if you are seriously considering smoking . It makes adding fuel much easier . Of course , adding fuel causes the above heat dissipation issues , so add fuel as infrequently as possible . That said , I smoked for years on a Webber grill , and it worked just fine . I did , however , upgrade to a <URL> at the first available opportunity . The results are more consistent and the process is much easier . But you 'll be fine getting started with the webber .
Looking at individual recipes , there is a great deal of overlap between Crêpes and Swedish pancakes . If , however , you compare hundreds of recipes , some clear differences emerge . There are also differences between the English interpretations of these recipes and those written in French or Swedish . In the chart above , each cohort consists of at least 100 distinct recipe ratios , except for <URL> Crêpes ratio which is provided for comparison . A taste test of the Swedish recipe Pannkakor with French recipe Crêpes revealed the following differences : Batter : The increased liquid content of the Swedish pancakes made the batter much thinner than the Crêpes batter . Swedish pancakes are made in a pan with a raised lip around the edge . This allows the thin batter to be sloshed around , evenly coating the pan surface without running over the edge . Crêpes , on the other hand , are made on a <URL> . The batter must be thick enough that it will not run over the edge . A T-shaped spreader is used to evenly coat the crêpe maker surface in a perfect disk shape . Frying : Crêpes fried up extremely easily , unsticking themselves from the skillet ( I had neither a pancake pan , nor a crêpe maker available at the time ) making it possible to toss the Crêpes instead of flipping with a spatula . Swedish pancakes , on the other hand , require a bit of fiddling with a spatula to flip them . Crêpes had a slight tendency to curl up at the sides after flipping so they cooked less evenly than the pancakes which stayed perfectly flat after flipping . Flip side of a Crêpe ( French recipe ) Flip side of a Swedish pancake ( Swedish recipe ) I also tested Michael Ruhlman 's Crêpes ratio . These curled up to a much greater extent than French recipe Crêpes after flipping and were , consequently , quite unevenly browned on one side . Flip side of a Ruhlman 's Crêpe Taste and consistency : Both French recipe Crêpes and Swedish recipe pancakes hit caramel and butterscotch notes . In short , they both tasted great . The Crêpe consistency was a little tough together with traditional Swedish accompaniments ( Whipped cream and Strawberry jam ) whereas the Swedish pancakes were light and fluffy ; this worked perfectly with the filling . I tested again with lemon juice and sugar and this time the Crêpes won through , holding up well to the additional liquid while the Swedish pancakes became a bit soggy . Ruhlman 's Crêpe recipe did n't perform nearly as well . The caramel flavour was much less pronounced , they had a dry mouth-feel and they were tougher than French recipe Crêpes . For anyone who wants to form their own opinion , here are the ratios and ingredients I used in the tests : Swedish Pancakes ( based on 200 Swedish recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:3.5:1:0.16 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 79g or 150ml all purpose flour 278g or 278ml milk 80g , 68ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 13g or 13ml butter 1/4 tsp salt Crêpes ( based on 119 French recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:1.97:0.75:0.17 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 116g or 219ml all purpose flour 228g or 228ml milk 86g , 73ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 20g or 20ml unsalted butter 1/4 tsp salt Update : Joe 's comment prompted me to chart the ingredient proportions as a <URL> .
Chapathi or Roti is made from wheat flour usually in all of the Indian homes . Chapathi is usually bigger in size than Phulka . both sides are cooked on pan . Some people apply oil/ghee after completely cooking it but when it is not on the pan but while eating . Roti / chapati is usually not made to swell up , especially if it is rolled comparatively thick . Bubbles do appear in the roti / chapati when steam forms in some places . The word ' Roti ' is used commonly in north , central and east India , whereas ' Chapati ' is used more in west ( Mumbai ) , and south India . Only in south India Chapati is fried in a bit of oil ! Elsewhere , only a Paratha is fried with oil or ghee Paratha is something which can be stuffed paratha or non stuffed paratha . Stuffed parartha is like Aloo Paratha , Methi Paratha and it is cooked on a pan too but oil/ghee/butter is applied while cooking on a pan . Non stuffed paratha is you make a puree of spinach or fenugreek with different spices and add it while preparing the dough itself . And then it is cooked on pan . Paratha ( plain , folded or stuffed ) is made from an unleavened dough of wholewheat flour , and shallow fried with a little oil / ghee / butter . Parathas generally stay soft and moist even when cold . Yes , certainly sometimes meaning differs with context to people and region , though there may not be much difference in preparing it.Triangle Shape has nothing to do with the Taste or Texture , it deals more with Presentation . Oil indeed influences the flavor &amp; texture of dough . The " moistness " of the Parathas - the soft texture - is actually from oils and fats . Adding in extra fat , such as oil , butter , shortening , makes the Parathas seem extra moist and soft .
They 're rather different . Gyros are Greek in origin . They are simply meat , tomatoes , onion , and tzatziki sauce on pita . In Greece the meat is typically pork ( never had one ) . In America , specifically here in Chicago ( their local origin ) , the meat is a combination of beef &amp; lamb . Shwawarma is Middle Eastern in origin . The possible toppings are much more diverse , and can include : tahini , tabouli , fattoush , cucumber , and hummus . Tzatziki is n't typically used , at least not in America . The meat is also never pork , it can be lamb , beef or chicken . They owe their similarities to their common Turkish ancestor the <URL> . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
Folding a burrito is serious business . Get it wrong and you 'll end up dumping most of the contents all over the place and look like a burrito noob . Get it right and your hands and plate will be perfectly clean , and you 'll no longer be hungry . Beware : publicly flaunting these skills might lead to people wanting you to fold their burritos for them . General Tips First off : make sure your tortilla is ready to be folded . A cold or dried out tortilla is likely to crack or split . Use a warm and moist tortilla . Second : do n't overfill the tortilla . If you have small tortillas do n't try to make a giant burrito and expect that to work . How to fold Now that we have the basics out of the way let 's get to folding . See <URL> ( which I 've converted into an image here ) : Place the contents in the approximately center of your partially folded tortilla . Leave plenty of room on the ends otherwise you 'll most surely have food spilling out once it 's folded up . Hold the filled tortilla so the weight of the filling pulls it tight . If your burrito busts through now , it will certainly burst later . If not , proceed to step 2 . Fold one end towards the center . Fold the other end over . Roll the bottom ( the end nearest you ) up towards the top . This is n't the intuitive way , but it 's the right way . Make sure not to let the food squeeze out . I hold it with my fingers at the crease where the bottom edge that 's been folded up meets the food . Keep rolling it up . Om nom nom .
There does n't appear to be any difference . Wikipedia says " In English-speaking countries , Berliners are usually called doughnuts and are usually filled with jam , jelly , custard or whipped cream " , and <URL> says " The English translation of krapfen is cruller or doughnut " . There are so many variations of filling , topping , shape and so forth that it is hard to establish a single identity anyhow .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
Yes there is a significant difference between the two . I would put them at pretty close to opposite ends of the coffee spectrum . French Press : Generally made with a coarse grind , longer steeping time . Result is a weaker ( less concentrated ) more typical American style coffee . This will likely be consumed in the same way as a typical filtered , drip coffee would . Moka Pot : Made with a much finer grind . And while many will argue it 's not true espresso . It is much closer to being an espresso . I do n't really care what you call it , but it 'll be a much stronger more robust coffee . The same amount of coffee will be extracted to a smaller quantity of water . This would be consumed in the same way as an espresso would . You can water it down to make an Americano , etc. . .
<URL> , at its most basic , is egg yolk and oil , with a little vinegar , whipped into an emulsion . <URL> starts with oil and garlic , and sometimes vinegar or lemon . Some versions ( French-Provençal , apparently ) add egg yolk for an end result close to mayonnaise , but the yolk is not required . <URL> is a cooked sauce made from egg yolk and butter , sometimes flavored with lemon and pepper . I think it must have a much larger ratio of egg yolk to other ingredients in it , since it remains brightly yellow and thick . <URL> is a variation of hollandaise , which uses white wine vinegar to emulsify the egg yolks and butter , and flavors the resulting sauce with shallot , chervil , and tarragon . Like an aioli , it is not defined by the emulsion but by the flavoring agents . Adding terragon and capers , or tarragon and shallots , to a hollandaise ( or other egg-yolk emulsion sauce ) will produce a ' faux-bearnaise ' . The garlic defines the aioli , which is also the only one that can be made without egg yolk . The choice of butter rather than oil makes a hollandaise , and it is cooked as a sauce to set the yolks ( which neither of the others require ) . The yolk and oil combination itself is the central concept of mayonnaise , while it can be flavored , it does n't have to be . The sauces are quite similar , though , and an emulsion of egg yolk with seasonings might be called by any name . The difference between a garlic mayo and a french-style aioli are likely to be pretty subtle . Likewise , a mayo flavored with lemon and pepper will be hard to distinguish from a hollandaise which uses oil - although hollandaise is usually cooked to set it , so the texture may be different . And a aioli with butter will be very similar to a hollandaise with garlic . Adding tarragon and shallot to any of them is likely to produce a bearnaise type sauce . All three recipes are very loose and broadly defined , since they can be tweaked a lot depending on preferences - so it makes it hard to pin down other factors like ingredient ratios that might distinguish the recipes . The sauces that add flavorings or substitute ingredients will tend to be named one or the other based more on recipe origin , familiarity , and marketing rather than any clearly defined difference .
In their various parts of the world , all of these words mean sauce , at least some of the time . They come from different cultures , though , and carry different connotations at least in US usage . Short answer , though : there are no absolute differences that you can count on . Salsa This is a generic term in Spanish , and in South American cuisines . It can cover everything from a thick , dark mole , an adobo , a light and piquant salsa verde , or the typical tomato , onion and pepper sauce often served with chips in the US . Some salsas are smooth ; others are chunky . They can be cooked or raw . Many people use the word to indicate the red , fresh or lightly cooked tomato salsa with onions , garlic , peppers and usually cilantro often served in Mexican restaurants in the US , but this is only the beginning of what salsas can be . Sauce The generic term . Almost any flavorful liquid put on another food to enhance it . These range from elegently smooth ( such as hollandaise ) to quite chunky such as putanesca sauce . Gravy Gravy tends to be a sauce made from meat drippings , and thickened to serve with the meat or its accompaniments . In Italian-American usage , it often covers " Sunday Gravy " or a ragu made from tomatoes and one or more ( or many meats ) that in some communities was traditionally made on Sunday ; and more generally , any sauce with meat in it . I am told that in Italian in the context of pasta sauces , the actual word is ( forgive my spelling ) accompanimento , an accent for the pasta which is the star . Chutney The word chutney derives from the India/Pakistan region , where again there are a myriad different sauces that carry the title . In the US , it tends to be used for a chunky , acidic sauce made from fruit and/or vegetables . This overlaps considerably with jam or preserves , in this sense , although chutneys tend to be much more strongly spiced , and may contain complex combinations of complimentary ingredients . Still , this does n't cover the full range such as a chutney of pureed cilantro and/or mint , which is much more thin and sauce-like than the above more typical US usage . Conclusion You can not really draw strict distinctions among these categories . You have to know what the specific sauce or item is that is being discussed to strongly draw inferences about it .
It 's hard to know exactly what you 're referring to without any context of the event , location , or what you remember it tasting like , so I 'll give you my best educated guesses . If your pink tea sweet and fruity or floral , it was an herbal tea - <URL> , and not true tea . ( " Tea " actually refers to the plant whose leaves are used the beverage . Anything that is not made from the tea tree is usually called a tisane . ) Some varieties of tisanes that produce a pink liquid include hibiscus , rose petals , rose hips , strawberry . If the above is not the case , I suspect you 're referring to Kashmiri pink tea , sometimes called noon chai . Disclaimer : I ca n't find any authoritative sources about Kashmiri online ; my knowledge of the subject is anecdotal from my own travels in India as well as stories from people I know who have lived or traveled in South Asia . My understanding is that , like masala chai throughout South Asia , pink tea has some general guidelines but everyone customizes it according to taste or local custom . The basic distinguishing factors of Kashmiri pink tea compared to a " regular " black , green , oolong , or white tea are twofold : color and taste . As you mentioned , this tea is pink in color , which other beverages made from the tea tree are not . The pink color comes from the addition of baking soda . As for taste , pink tea tends to elicit mixed opinions about taste because it is salty ; most people around the world typically drink tea unadulterated , or sweetened , but rarely with the addition of salt . Pink tea shares many ingredients with <URL> , often including some or all of the following : Ginger Cardamom Cinnamon Peppercorns Milk or cream Sugar ( or other sweetener ) Unlike masala chai , which is normally prepared with black tea , Kashmiri pink tea uses green or oolong tea leaves . Ingredients included in Kashmiri chai that are not included in most other chai recipes : baking soda ( just a pinch ) ground pistachios and/or almonds salt white poppy seeds The final major difference is in the method of preparation . Masala chai can be made in a matter of minutes by boiling the water , then adding tea , milk , spices and boiling it all together for a few minutes before straining and serving . Kashmiri chai , on the other hand , takes 1-2 hours to prepare ( I believe the long boiling time is required for the baking soda to accomplish its task of turning the tea pink ) . I do n't know the exact process and could n't find any sources that seemed reliable .
If I recall correctly the differences are slight , but significant . Both have a subtle , delicate flavour with an exceptionally light texture . The Victorian is usually regarded as the healthier , lighter of the two , but I believe this is mostly due to the Génoise usually being rendered as a layer cake with a lavish buttercream filling , though if I remember right it can also be used as a base for madeleines and ladyfingers . The Victorian can be baked thin and carefully rolled with cream for Swiss rolls . The main difference is the Victorian slices disorderly and ' crumby ' while the Génoise retains its form neatly . Both are accompanied well by , and are traditionally served with hot beverages namely tea and coffee . The Italian creation is undecidedly the more complex one to prepare . You 're right about separating the egg whites and beating them separately aerating the mixture further , but I 'm not certain if it would make a noticeable difference in case of sponge cakes but I 'd love it if someone could comment on this .
Actually they recently came up with <URL> for civet coffee . Apparently a great deal of supposedly authentic stuff never actually traveled through the bowels of a cat . According to the <URL> , the levels of citric acid , malic acid , and the inositol/pyroglutamic acid are so much higher in kopi luwak that their ratios can be used to validate mixes with other beans where the proportion of kopi luwak is 50 % or greater .
Yes , there is a clear difference in never-frozen vs. defrosted meat . The cell plasma in your chicken freezes in the freezer , turning into ice crystals . Since cell plasma is over 90 % water , it expands instead of shrinking in the 0 to -4 ° C range . The crystals cut the cell walls . When you defrost the meat and cook it , the cell plasma flows out into the pan , leaving you with dried out meat . This is the first , major problem with freezing , and occurs even when the meat is frozen for a very short time . If you keep meat stored frozen for longer time , there are two other effects . The unavoidable one is rancidity . The cell plasma in frozen meat has a high mineral concentration , and given time , it will oxidize the fat in meat , changing its taste for the worse . The avoidable one is freezer burn - it occurs if the meat is not wrapped properly in the freezer . Freezer-burned meat is really unpleasant to eat , most people throw out affected parts . Of course , this is not the only factor affecting meat quality . SAJ14SAJ 's comment is true in the sense that bad meat ( from mass-produced young animals grown in bad conditions ) will not have much taste of its own , and even if you prevent it from drying out , it still wo n't be as nice as good meat . But what is more pertinent in this case is that the cooking process can more impact on drying out than a freezing-defrosting cycle . If you cook defrosted meat carefully , you will minimize the dryness effect . It wo n't be the perfect morsel , but it can still taste pretty well . On the other hand , if you have never-frozen meat and overcook it , it can get to shoe-leather consistency , so that you lose all advantages from non-freezing . References : McGee on Food and Cooking , p. 146 ( reputable , dead-paper book ) or <URL> - ( random Google hit , one click away ) .
end question
start question
sauce pan vs. dutch oven vs. stock pot - any difference besides size ?
While all of these are large pots ( or may at least come in large sizes ) they have different purposes , which lead to differences in typical construction . Saucepans are intended for general purpose cookery , and usually have solid construction , and permit searing in the pot , reducing , and a variety of other tasks . They are the most difficult to characterize as there is tremendous variation in quality levels and design among the products available . Stock pots are purpose built to make large quantities of stock . Since they are not used for searing typically , and liquids circulate via convection making hot spots not a priority , they are typically constructed from thinner metals ( steal or aluminum ) and do n't have good general purpose cooking qualities . The main virtues in a stock part are low cost , size , and light weight . Dutch ovens ( at least real Dutch ovens ) are a legacy from the time when cooking was done in hearth or campfire . They are designed to be nestled into the coals or embers , with more coals or embers placed on top of the lid , creating a hot oven like interior -- thus the name . True quality Dutch ovens will be fairly thick , usually cast iron , possibly enameled , and may have little legs to help nestle it into the fire above the coals ; similarly , a the lid may actually fit into the pot , allowing coals to easily be piled on top . Dutch overs are actually fairly versatile cooking implements , and can serve for searing , roasting , braising , stewing , biscuit making , soup making , and even some bread applications even in the modern kitchen . Many are large enough to make stock in for home purposes , although they are not absolutely ideal for the task . You will have to ask yourself , given your own cooking patterns , would the general versatility of a dutch oven , or the size of a stock pot serve you better . None of the sets you linked to has a true dutch oven , however ; the one that purports to be a dutch oven has a glass lid ! It might be an okay pot , it is not one I would ever choose . For stainless steel products ( without the specialized legs and concave lid to nest coals in ) , there is very little difference between a dutch oven and a very large sauce pan .
You pour in the batter , wait for the underside to be cooked ( some brown patches ) , flip it , then put cheese on the ( browned ) top . With spek ( bacon ) , you do n't need to do this , you can just put the spek into the pan , fry it until done , then pour batter over it , and proceed as normal . Dutch pancakes are fairly thin , so they do n't take very long to cook . Spek wo n't get properly crisp if you pour the batter on it immediately , also because the watery batter cools it down . Apple pieces wo n't burn either , so you can put those in first ( I hate those , they will make your pancake break ! ) .
In a small toaster oven , using a pizza stone is likely to be a tradeoff : Toasting -- counter-productive , because it will shield the bottom of the bread ( or other item ) from the direct radiative heat from the bottom elements ; you would want to remove the stone for this use . Broiling ( or as it is called in the British parlance if I understand correctly , grilling ) -- Probably not a good idea . In a full sized oven , the stone would be left far enough from the heating elements that it would not be subject to intense radiative heat . In a toaster oven , it might be too close to the elements when the oven is used this way , so might be subject to cracking due to a higher temperature gradient and uneven thermal expansion . General baking -- will require a longer a pre-heating period for the oven/stone to come up to temperature , but once at temperature , will provide a buffering effect for more even heating . Convenience -- in full sized ovens , people often leave the stone in all of the time , and cook on a different rack if they do n't want direct contact with the stone . This may or may not be possible or convenient in a toaster oven , so you may be constantly removing or putting back the stone based on your current use Note that all of the above is just reasoning based on known facts ; I have n't tried a pizza stone in a toaster oven , and would n't do so , as they have a generally low thermal mass . I tend to think of them as tools for toasting and reheating , not for primary cooking , baking , or roasting .
The Yolk and White are very different and I would expect to see a significant difference in result . That is n't to say it will be bad , just different . The Yolk is the source of fat . It is going to impart flavor to the dish and provide a creamier texture . The White is mostly protein and so will set more , have more of a texture impact . If it called for several whole eggs and you wanted to take a Yolk or two out for less fat , that would have less of a variance , but switching several Yolks to several Whites should definitely alter the results . Extra info : Here is some nutritional information of a Large Whole/White/Yolk . <URL> You will see they both carry protein however the Yolk has almost twice as much fat as protein while the White has less than 2 % of fat as it does protein . This makes their behaviors very different .
No recipe alteration needed . Fried meatballs will develop more of a crust , and thus more flavour through the Maillard reaction . In any case , unless you 're making tiny meatballs ( or finishing their cooking in a sauce of some sort ) , they 're going to need to be finished via baking anyway . I would only do the baking method if I had to make an enormous quantity at once . For home cooking I always fry then bake .
If you use frozen you will not have the option of having a thick cheese soup with more crisp broccoli ; i.e. if you were considering adding the broccoli toward the end after blanching it for a more toothsome floret , this would only be fruitful with fresh . I am unsure about the blogspot link in Sebiddy 's post , but my experience with frozen broccoli is that it gets the job done but not very well . As a point of logistics , using frozen without first thawing will net you a hearty release of water from the broccoli if you do n't thaw first and may cause your mornay some heart-ache if timed poorly .
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
Speaking in generalizations , without knowing the details of content : Anything with a non-stick coating - I would n't put it in the oven . If you do n't know what the non-stick coating is made of , you ca n't be sure if it will melt . Additionally high temperatures and non-stick coating make for off-gassing . Anything with plastic handles , knobs or any other plastic parts - do n't put it in the oven at any temperature . No way to know how it will react . Cast iron - always oven safe to almost any temp that a non-commercial oven would reach Enameled cast iron ( like Le Crueset ) - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated stainless steel - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated anodized aluminum - I would say no more than 450 ° F ( 230 ° C ) , to be safe Copper - 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Glass - 450 ° F ( 230 ° C )
Coffee goes well with hazelnut and has a slightly bitter note , so you could make a coffee infused crème pâtissière by simply folding in a shot or two of espresso ( or just some good strong coffee ) into whipped cream ( or make a coffee frosting ) .
A paper filter is a true " filter " in that it basically only allows liquid to pass through . This means that you will have no sediment in your coffee , if that is a concern to you . Paper filters are absorbent though , so some of the flavor compounds of the coffee will be absorbed into the paper , and some other compounds as well ( a chemical in coffee that causes a rise in cholesterol is absorbed by the paper ) . The paper can also lead to a papery flavor in your coffee . Metal filters only filter out particulates of a certain size , so you will frequently end up with a layer of " sludge " at the bottom of your pot . Metal filters should be non-reactive though , so they will not add a flavor to your coffee and will allow everything extracted from your coffee to pass through . If cholesterol is n't a concern , I 'd say try both and see which you like better . <URL> <URL>
A couple things : make sure you 're removing enough of the fat from the pan . Too much fat will keep the sauce thin ( and will also tend to separate out afterwards ) . Also , fat will not evaporate -- if your remaining liquid is fat , the temperature will rapidly rise , and very quickly things will burn . depending on what you 're adding , you may need to use a thickener . There is a reason three of the five mother sauces have roux . ( Hollandaise has egg , which thickens , Tomate has tomato which has lots of pectin , which also thickens , so those two do n't need it ) . A good stock or broth has plenty of gelatin , which will thicken especially upon cooling . When you add your deglazing liquid , you need to thoroughly scrape up the fond and stir it in . Keep stirring , especially towards the end when its somewhat thick . Also especially if your pan has hot spots . Turn down the temperature . This should go without saying when things are burning . Some heat helps with deglazing , but after that you do n't actually need anything more than a low simmer -- higher evaporates faster ( important , since the meat is often resting &amp; cooling ) but not burning the sauce is more important .
If I were to guess , it would be that the ones that call for a lively simmer are sauces , soups , or other thicker liquids . The lively simmer in that case would refer something close to a light boil . For instance , tomato sauce simmers even when you have it on low , but if you were to cut the temperature up to a medium low , it would bubble much more actively and to me would be considered a lively simmer .
In baking , doubling sometimes is accurate , sometimes not . Yeah , that is a non-answer , but is true . It is not unsafe to double , or halve , but sometimes results will vary . You hit a point which could cause a slight issue , even distribution . Changing volume of a recipe with an ingredient which is distributed over the surface might affect the distribution ratio , though in this case I think it would likely be minor . Other issues can arise in doubling would be if the dough needs to breath . Thermal reactions can often affect results when doubling or halving recipes as well . The cooking time adjustments are often obvious , but cooling can be less obvious but disastrous at times , and any resting times needed may be skewed . All of that said , with allowing for baking time , and a little experimentation , most recipes can be safely doubled or halved , but tend to start breaking down beyond that , going for tripled , 4 times , etc tends to get progressively poor results without a lot of trial and error . It is certainly worth a try though . And alternate or fallback if you do not like the results of doubling is to make two separate batches , which you know will be correct .
If you 're worried about the aluminum foil , you can always just use a covered casserole dish ... it might not hold all of the steam in , though . ( there are methods , like mixing a pough of flour and water , then using that to seal the lid on the pot ) . Also , if you 're worried , I 'd just consider not using acids , like lemon ; aluminum pots and pans react to acids , and I 'd only assume aluminum foil would to . You could also switch to parchment paper , which is the original for cooking ' en papillote ' ( in paper ) . But ' better ' is subjective -- easier to clean up ( aluminum foil wins , I think ) , cheap ( maybe the casserole dish , as it 's reusable ) , more impressive ( probably the parchment paper ) . As for spicing ... search for ' chicken en papillote ' on any internet serch engine and you 'll find lots of recipes .
Low quality chocolate chips often have additives in them that help them keep shape and shelf life , that 's why they 're not recommended . Callebaut callets are pure 100 % chocolate according to Callebaut . I 'd use them anywhere for bar or chips with great results . They might not come out of the oven looking exactly like a traditional chocolate chip cookie ( for example ) but they should taste fantastic !
Fine mesh sieve is the usual way , but the way you describe it , yours is not fine enough . Look in professional stores for a " chinois " , this is the kind of sieve you need . But yes , it will take a long time . In classic restaurants , the stock will be cleared before going through the chinois . This is done by floating a rack of eggwhite which bounds the stray proteins . It is at least as slow as the cheesecloth , but more nerve wracking , because you have to do it manually , and it is rather finicky and can easily go wrong . I remember reading about a modern trick of clearing which used gelatine and freezing the stock without a mesh or a rack , but do n't know any more what it was . Maybe somebody else has read it and can supply the details . Edit I returned home and looked the freezing method up ; it is listed in the book " Cooking for geeks " . It contains the sentence As the water in the stock freezes , it will push the impurities into the gelatin The book also has pictures . They show that you do n't end up with fine protein sediment clogging your sieve and finest slit in the stock . The first picture shows the drip-freeze filtered stock compared to the same stock filtered at 100 microns , the difference is large . The second picture shows that after the procedure , what stays in the sieve are cohesive pieces of gelatine with the particles trapped inside , not a film of the scum . So it seems that there is a reason for freezing first . For home use , I just do n't bother clearing my stock , I just use a tea sieve to remove the worst of the protein . When simmered without allowing it to boil , this produces reasonably good stock without all the fuss .
I 've never really considered there to be a real difference between sautéing and frying . They both mean to cook in a hot pan with a little bit of fat . However there is n't a lot of consistency online . It does n't look like there 's any sort of definitive answer here . Some points of view : <URL> , although frying might involve slightly more oil . The terms are essentially interchangeable . This is the top hit on a google search " sauteing frying " ( although this question is on the first page ! ) . <URL> , sautéing involves jumping the food while frying involves a little more oil and less flipping or stiring of the food . Here 's <URL> for this definition . This definition makes a delineation between pan frying and shallow frying . <URL> and involves partially submerging the food in oil . Food is normally breaded first . There 's no distinction between frying and shallow frying . This is Martha Stewart 's definition . As you can see , it 's really all over the map , and that was just from the first page of the google results . I think we 're getting in to issues with language changing beneath us . However , I think the safest bet is probably that sautéing involves a lot of stirring , frying does n't , and I should consider refining my own definitions . Caramelizing ( which fortunately does n't have any of the same confusion ) is a process that happens during cooking when sugar oxidizes . There are many different ways that you can achieve this effect . One of the ways is to sauté or fry ( depending on your definition ) something until the water sweats out and the remaining sugar heats up . So the answer is that you are caramelizing the onions by sautéing ( or maybe frying ) them .
Using stock ( or broth ) has two advantages over plain water : It is more flavorful , giving your pie a better , deeper background richness It contains gelatin , which may improve the mouth feel of your pie , giving it a thicker , silkier , richer texture Depending on your particular pie recipe 's filling , this may not make a huge amount of difference , or it could be the difference between a so-so and a great pie .
It 's really going to be a trade off between the flavor defects , but it also depends on the brewing method , and if it 's drip or espresso . For us , with drip , stale coffee tastes worse than badly ground coffee . We can always tell if coffee has been freshly ground or not , because the characteristics and flavor profile change the longer it 's been ground . Having a crappy grinder will affect the flavor as well , with some grounds being over extracted and under extracted . At this point the quality of the coffee would n't even matter . So , it really depends on what you 'd prefer to sacrifice . For me ? In this situation , I 'd probably just drink tea .
First , fully generically : The main distinction made by The New Food Lover 's Companion ( Fourth edition , 2007 ) is that a " casserole dish " , can be glass , metal , ceramic , or any other heatproof material , while a Dutch oven is usually made of cast iron . Another distinction is that the Dutch oven may be a kettle , which typically implies the presence of an overarching handle from which the entire pot may be hung ( as over a fire ) , while no such option is offered up for their definition of a casserole . This is generally confirmed by the fact that while , yes , both we and the marketplace ( sellers ) seem often to use the terms casserole and Dutch oven interchangeably , whenever the vessel is equipped with an overarching handle retailers seem to avoid referring to it as a casserole . More specifically , when you turn to high end concerns in service to restauranteurs , such as <URL> , there 's no confusion on the matter . Casseroles invariably lack overarching handles and , unlike Dutch ovens , may come in quite small sizes and do n't necessarily require lids . So while Dutch ovens may or may not have overarching handles , they <URL> have lids and are invariably substantial in size . The compiled side-by-side photos below , as extracted from WebstaurantStore , goes to show just how severe the contrast can be between the two items . Second , to the question of browning : Here are a couple of examples which seem to speak for themselves , as far as how well ceramics or ceramic coatings can be expected to perform when baking breads . <URL> offers a Cast-Iron Loaf Pan ( photo below ) about which it says , The specially formulated black matte interior enamel contains traces of quartz , giving it additional heat resistance and a rougher surface resulting in better browning . <URL> also offers a Bread Cloche ( photo below ) , for which it makes the following claim , Duplicating the benefits of baking in a brick oven , the ceramic bread cloche turns out individual loaves with tender , moist interiors and crispy , evenly golden crusts . I 'm sure there exist any number of additional examples of bakeware , each of which possesses similar properties to these . ( The links provide a good deal more information . ) I hope this however is enough to help you take the plunge , so to speak , toward this option if that 's what you 're interested in doing .
end question
start question
How can I choose good avocados at the supermarket ?
Depends on if you 'll buy for instant consumption or for storage . If you want to eat/prepare them right away , you want an avocado that feels soft on the inside , when pressing them they will cede and have that soft feeling ripe avocado has . It should n't cede very much though , as those are past their prime . The very good ones even smell in a nice avocadoey way a bit ( or maybe that 's just my insanity . ) If you want to prepare them later , you want firm ones that cede only a tiny little bit ( the rock hard ones mostly never ripen in my experience , ) you then store them in a porous bag ( the typical brown paper bag or a newspaper ) to let them ripe . To speed up the ripening , you can add an apple to the bag . See also <URL>
Short answer : I 've only heard good things about the CCK # 1 small slicer , and would suggest that . If you 're new to the style of knife , pick up a cheap carbon-steel Dexter Russell one for like $ 20-25 at your local Chinatown . Long answer : Chinese slicer knives ( more commonly called Chinese cleavers ) are multipurpose knives , so they fill the same niche as French-style chef knives . They 're common options for cheap restaurant knives , and I 've seen them used professionally . I now use a Dexter Chinese Cleaver as my primary knife at home . The common features of Chinese cleavers are a squared-off , deep , often carbon steel blade , bamboo barrel-style handle , and pure awesomeness . Generally the blades are around 200mm long x 75-90mm deep , or about 8 " x 3 " . As you note , the blades are not as heavy or thick as German-style cleavers , so they ca n't handle bone . Although they get mentioned a lot for vegetable chopping , Chinese cleavers are remarkably flexible for both meat and vegetables . You can find videos of Chef Martin Yan <URL> with a Chinese cleaver . The deep blade makes chopping thick objects simple , where the squared corner is remarkable for fine detail work . The spine of the knife can be used to tenderize meat or scrape cutting boards . The broad blade is perfect for transferring cut product to a pan . You can even use the handle for crushing spices ! The carbon steel blades can be love or hate for many people . Personally , I love how mine takes and holds an edge comparable to the most expensive stainless steels . The fly in the ointment is that they can rust right before your eyes if you cut lemons or acidic tomatoes . They should always be cleaned and dried PROMPTLY after use , to avoid rust . Between use , I oil mine lightly with vegetable oil , as an extra precaution . Between this and the water-intolerance of the bamboo handle , they do need some special care . Although stainless-steel cleavers are becoming more common , I really think it defeats the point if you use one . They 're supposed to be cheap and ugly , but workhorses . A good Chinese cleaver should n't set you back more than $ 50 in your local Chinatown or online ... mine was about $ 25 and it does dang fine , though I will probably upgrade to a CCK # 1 eventually .
My wife loves bacon that 's cooked to the cusp of burning , so I 've got a good knowledge of the properties of bacon on that fine line . It 's so brittle , you can powder it very easily . I myself would probably just stick it in a plastic bag , and whack it a few times with a pan , but I do n't see any reason why you could n't put it in the blender . I have a nice mortar and pestle I use for powdering things , but that 's probably overkill in this case .
White pre-cooked corn flour , water , pinch of salt and cooked in the pan is the traditional way of making and cooking arepas . However , cookery is a living and evolving subject and very much a matter of personal taste . I strongly recommend you experiment with the different flours , milk or water or half and half , cooked in the pan and in the oven and decide for yourself which you prefer and which comes closest to the ones you 've tried and liked .
As with all can goods , as long as the can has no physical defects ( meaning swollen or dented , ectera ) , the contents should still be good . The date on the outside is mainly a best by date , after which a company will no longer vouch for the contents contained therein .
In my view this is pretty simple : make things you want to eat . As long as you cast your net wide enough as you look for recipe ideas , there will always be new things that you 'd love to eat and will learn something from making . And as long as you want to eat the food , you 'll be motivated enough to actually follow through and do it . Most of the time , this will mean making things where you 're mostly comfortable with the recipe , but there are some new parts you have n't tried before . It might be new combinations of ingredients and flavors , which will broaden the creative side of your cooking . It might be new techniques , which will enable you to make more things in the future . To oversimplify , when you look at a recipe , if practically every step sounds new or difficult , maybe save it for later ; if most of it gives you an " I can do this " feeling , go for it ! It 's fine to take on bigger projects too , of course , as long as you go into it with the understanding that you might want to try parts of it by themselves first ( or that things might fail the first time ) . Either way , be sure to cast a wide net : skim cookbooks , read food blogs , browse recipe database sites or food photography sites , and so on . There 's always a lot out there that you 'll surely want to try and just do n't know it yet . But above all , just seek out things that look good to you ( or your friends/family ) . The rest will follow .
If you can find <URL> ( some nail polish removers ) , you can probably do <URL> .
If you 're simmering it in a decent amount of liquid for a while , like curry , the slimy stuff ( mucilage ) will all go out into the curry and end up just thickening it . The okra itself wo n't be slimy . This is one of the traditional ways to thicken gumbo ! Even just stewed okra , with a decent amount of tomatoey goop , usually is n't very slimy .
I do n't know much of the science behind the super-soft bread on supermarket shelves , but I can give some insight into the history that led to it becoming so ubiquitous in the US . The idea that whiter breads are classier than darker breads goes all the way back to the 5th century BC . The belief that white bread was superior to dark bread , a common theme in many cultures over the ages , was already taking hold in Greece by the 5th century BC . Darker , denser breads made from barley or rye were the breads of the poor . White breads were believed to be pure , more refined , more cultured . They cost more too , since growing wheat was more labor-intensive than other grains . And on top of that , removing the bran and the germ to make wheat flour white instead of brown increased the work and the cost still further . Interestingly , up until the 17th century there were even separate baker 's guilds for bakers of white breads and brown breads . This prejudice against darker breads generally continued all the way until the 1960 's , when growing health consciousness finally seemed to turn the tide . From <URL> The desire for soft came a bit later ( same source ) : I 've often wondered why bread baking in this country-descended as it is from the great European traditions-turned so ... let 's say ... soft . The decline of good bread baking may have had its roots in the 18th century . The introduction of pan baking made bread softer and puffier . In the 19th century a distaste for " sourness " ( ironically the same " sourness " that makes San Francisco sourdough and other sourdoughs so great ) led to the introduction of baking soda to bread , which made it puffier still . In the 1870 's industrial milling techniques were introduced . Flour became whiter and whiter , and " deader " - bakers began adding sugar to get yeasts to react as they had in the past , and bread got puffier still . Bread continued to get sweeter and puffier , until finally in the 1920 's , we reached the pinnacle of puffiness-Wonder Bread . It 's with the birth of Wonder Bread things really take a turn for the insiped . Did you know you can squeeze an entire loaf into a ball the size of a tennis ball ? I once know a guy who never missed an opportunity to show off that little stupid-human-trick ... but I digress ... Alexander Taggart , the founder of Wonder Bread , was a marketing genius . In the 1890s he sold the first company that he had built to The United States Baking Company and he accepted stock in The United States Baking Company as a part of the purchase price . The United States Baking Company subsequently became a part of the National Biscuit Company . You might know that company by another name , Nabisco . So at this point he owned a chunk of Nabisco , but he sold that to start another baking company , the Taggart Baking Company , out of Indianapolis , Indiana . At first he zeroed in on the large number of German immigrants in the area , and prior to WWI he advertised heavily in German language newspapers using a Puritan logo : From <URL> This was a good time to own a baking company in the USA . Between the start of the century and the end of WWI , the market was burgeoning . between 1899 and 1919 the value of bread and bakery products produced in Indiana grew 620 % . Americans were rapidly growing richer , and they could afford to replace labor-intensive homemade goods with manufactured alternatives . - <URL> But events of the era were causing a shift in the attitudes of American consumers . The war and its aftermath caused a tremendous amount of discrimination against German immigrants , and in Indiana , Germans were plentiful enough that there was a significant backlash to those attitudes . To make matters worse , Protestants in Indiana were banding together against Catholics , and the KKK was getting hugely powerful in state politics ( an interesting bit of history in its own right <URL> ) . Our marketing genius knew just how to capitalize on the social unrest . In 1921 the Taggart Company had a new wrapping technique that could keep bread fresh for several days , and set about to rebrand the product.The new Taggart bread would n't carry religious or ethnic connotations that could hinder it 's sales , or even falsely identify itself with the work of Puritan mothers -- it was going to be better . It was going to be from the mechanized world of the future , a utopian world with factories suspended from the clouds by the thread of their smoke ; bridges with the leap of gymnasts ... and the gliding flight of aeroplanes whose propellers sound like the flapping of a flag and the applause of enthusiastic crowds -- a vision outlined in Filippo Marinetti 's Futurist Manifesto , published in 1909 . The new Wonder Bread did n't suggest hearth and home . On the contrary , the unnaturally vibrant colors of the logo and visual purity of this new , virgin white , 1.5 pound loaf perfectly evoked the otherworldliness of the enormous manufacturing system that was seen as America 's future . - <URL> It was the righ
It boils down to chemical make up . Avocados , like egg yolks , contain a decent amount of fats , carotenoids , and sulfurous compounds . Avocados are one of the most concentrated fruit sources of fats and fatty acids . Both egg yolks and avocados contain carotenoid phytochemicals like lutein , zeaxathanin , and a-carotene . In avocados the sulphur is mostly in the form of glutathione , would likely break down into its cysteine during steaming . Cysteine is one of the primary sulphur sources in eggs as well . <URL>
The most obvious difference is that a highball glass is much larger : 8 to 12 ounces as opposed to 4.5 ounces for a martini glass . Cocktails served traditionally in a larger glass usually include a large quantity of mixers , such as a Tom Collins ( served traditionally in a Collins glass , 10-14 oz , though a highball would be appropriate ) , which only contains about 2oz of gin and is topped off with a large quantity of soda water , or a Cuba Libre ( traditionally served in a highball glass ) , which contains mostly Coca-Cola with a small amount of rum . On the other hand , cocktails served traditionally in smaller stemware , such as the Martini , may contain nothing but the alcoholic ingredients ( gin and vermouth ) . Therefore , they require smaller quantities before one would be inebriated , and thus are served in smaller glasses . Furthermore , stemmed glasses keep your hand further from the ( presumably cold ) drink , thus keeping it colder longer , important for drinks traditionally served neat ( whereas a highball would have room for ice ) . If you ask an enthusiast , the shape of the stemware used can be crucial ; for example , red wine apparently tastes better after oxidation , so red wine glasses maximize surface area to increase the amount of wine that oxidizes , while white wines do not oxidize well . Champagne needs to stay bubbly , so a champagne flute tries to minimize the amount of bubbles that escape , while some alcohols have a pleasant aroma and thus benefit from wider glasses like a sherry glass that maximize the amount of aroma that escapes . However , for many average consumers , stemware is stemware is stemware . The differences may or may not be enough to be noticeable to people who are not wine enthusiasts . I would say , if you 're looking to stock a kitchen , get a couple types of stemware you find attractive and improvise rather than trying to make every drink in its own special glass .
Citrus zest is where most citrus flavour in a sauce or baked good actually comes from because it remains in solid form , like herbs and spices . The juice adds some flavour but it turns into solution and gets spread out over a very large surface area/volume . I do n't know why you decided not to use the zest - are you using commercial orange juice ? If so , that may be part of the problem too - processed juices are not going to be as flavourful as homemade , in part because of the mechanical separation of pulp ( even if it is subsequently re-incorporated to make a juice " with pulp " ) . Orange juice is effectively your water in this recipe so doubling it means you need to double everything else . In other words you 'll have exactly the same ratios and therefore exactly the same taste . If it came out too dry then that means you either ( a ) baked too long , ( b ) overworked the batter , ( c ) <URL> or ( d ) <URL> . Nothing to do with the OJ content . If you really want to add more orange flavour beyond what the original recipe would give you , use <URL> , it 's a highly concentrated orange flavour and is usually derived from ( surprise ! ) the zest , or made to taste like one . But I would suggest to try following the recipe correctly before doing this .
It 's interesting that this is your experience , since " common knowledge " is the white pepper is milder than black . White pepper is the dried ripe fruit of the pepper Piper Nigrum , and the black is the unripe , cured and dried fruit . Black is usually hotter than white , but generally they are considered to be interchangeable , with the white being used in sauces and in cream dishes for a better look ( no black specks ) . Since this pepper is so strong for some reason , I would advise that you only use it in dishes that rely on the pepper flavor to the exclusion of others , say steak au poivre , or pepper pot , or salt and pepper scallops . Other than that you can cut back on the amount or grind it now and let it sit around for a while ... pepper has its strongest , best flavor when freshly ground ; it kills me to suggest that , but I 'm trying to answer your question . If it were mine , I would try to figure out a dish that this pepper would truly enhance , as I suggested .
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
Bitterness can come from underripe fruit ( although a lot of times they 'll just be sour or less flavorful ) , lack of juice is usually something that has been stored too long and dried out . A ripe mandarin or clementine should be firm but not hard with a good , bright citrusy fragrance . Rubbing your finger on the skin should impart some citrus oil ( unless it 's waxed of coated ... ) I think usually the smell is the best guideline for flavor , although I have still sometimes had a fruit that smells great and tastes pretty bland . But I think usually if they are really fragrant that 's a good sign . The skin should be somewhat loose-feeling . If the skin is tight on the fruit , it is either not ripe or it is drying out ( or it 's not a mandarin or clementine ) . Do n't squeeze the fruit and bruise it , but when you pick it up , there should be a bit of give in the skin . Mandarins and clementines have very thin skins , but these still have the sort of spongy texture of other citrus . Because they are thin , they dry out quickly . It 's hard to describe what drying citrus skin feels like - progressively rougher and harder than fresh , eventually turning into a crisp and brittle almost stony layer . I 'm sure you would notice far before it gets to that stage , but it 's not going to happen overnight . ( But the fruit should n't be squishy or have soft spots , that is generally spoilage or damage . ) It should not feel dry and hard . A juicy citrus will feel heavy for its size , although for really small ones that 's kind of hard to judge . One more thing to note , though , is that most of the time , the whole batch of whatever type of fruit at the grocery store or at a particular market stall at any given time will very likely come from the same source . While there might be some better and some worse ones , overall they 'll probably be pretty similar , unless you can clearly see that some are older or from a different source . If you 're not sure about a batch , just buy a couple and then get more after you see that they 're good . ( And if you find some great ones , buy a lot and freeze some for juice for later . )
The dried powder in a can is your best bet , short of grating a fresh root . Though an overlingering burn is n't your thing , try pinch of cayenne in the wasabi mix to lend sweetness and more ka-boom . Generous wasabi and some <URL> are my favorite sushi companions .
A lot depends on what kind of cheese you are making . I will assume that you are making a standard , medium-firm , rennet-set cheese . I have had the most success adding seasonings and herbs with the salt . That is - after the curd has set , been cut , and drained but before it has been pressed at all . Work in the salt and any other flavors before placing the curd in the mold . I imagine any herb or spice would work - it depends what flavor you want . I have used basil when I had a bumper crop . I have also used dried peppers . As to dry or fresh - either would work . As with anything if you use dry then use a lot less . I prefer fresh because it is more tender . Other cheeses might be a little different but as a rule of thumb adding with the salt should work . Mozzarella seems like it would be trickier because the kneading of the curd would change things .
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
I think the problem lies in that the beans are not water blanched , but rather oil blanched . The technique is called " dry frying " , and is a traditional Sichuan cooking method . The oil temp is kept low to dry out the inside while cooking the outside of the food . After the dry frying you can then stir fry the food . This technique should give you the required look and texture to the food . Hope this helps .
Smell . Really , this is the most reliable criterion for practically any fruit . Flavor contains both taste and smell . For a strawberry , you want a fragrant smell together with enough sweetness . For both , the berry has to be ripe enough . If it was picked underripe , it wo n't smell good enough yet , and it will also be hard and sour . If it was picked long ago and is not fresh any more , it will have lost the more volatile components of its fragrance . So ripe , fresh strawberries smell great . I have had occasions when I entered a supermarket to quickly buy one thing , aimed at the correct aisle , but when the smell of good strawberries reached me near the produce , I turned and added a pack of them . I have never been disappointed with such strawberries . Also , if you smell the slightest hint of mold , fermentation , or foulness , you know they may not keep even one night . Another sign is that a ripe strawberry will be red through and through . A strawberry picked underripe will be white or even slightly greenish at the top . It does n't taste good then . But this is a negative sign , because not all red strawberries taste good . Do n't ever go by shape . The tastiest sort of strawberries my grandparents grew produced ugly , lumpy strawberries of a light , slightly orange color . They also had a few rows of a sort which produced perfectly conical , deep red strawberries , they looked like an advertisement - but they were hard and dry , and did n't have much aroma . Probably , there are some strawberries which both look and taste good - just do n't think that looks or color predict a good strawberry , because they are independent . And of course , any strawberries which have visible mold or fouled spots are not good any more . You can usually also recognize overripened strawberries in their appearance , but I do n't know how to describe it well . They just look old .
end question
start question
" Screaming " noise while steaming milk ?
The screaming noise occurs when your steaming wand ca n't draw in enough air . The worst that will happen is your milk will taste a little sour . Just pull the wand out of the milk for a second then put it back in .
Poaching is a gentle process - the milk is n't boiling so there is no risk of it burning or the like . It will of course not spoil in the sense of it going off , that 's a totally different process . Fresh milk is better because , well , it 's fresh . Powdered milk would probably work , but if you have fresh , use that .
There are cultured soy and coconut milk products ( generally sold with yogurt ) which can be used as a sour cream substitute ; it 's frequently advisable to add a little extra vinegar or lemon juice as these products do n't generally provide as much kick as real sour cream .
Very easy . All you want to do is to remove the water through heating . As you are not going to can it , you do n't have to sterilize it afterwards . The only concern when evaporating milk is to not end with a layer of scorched milk solids on the bottom . First , start with homogenized milk ( you do n't want to risk undissolved fat swimming on top of it ) . If you want the pure milk flavor , heat it to 70 ° C and wait until you are left with half the initial volume . This takes several hours , depending on the quantity of the milk . My great-grandma usually did it overnight . If you do n't mind a " scorched " taste , you can do it much quicker . Take a very big pot . It should be at least 6-7 times higher than the milk depth , because the boiling milk will foam up a lot . The width is up to you , but the wider the pot , the quicker it will go . Bring the milk to a vigorous boil . Use a setting which is just hot enough to sustain boiling , too much heat will increase the scorching . Stir all the time . You need maybe 10 minutes of stirring , again depending on quantity of the milk and pot width . You are aiming for the same rate of evaporation - you should be left with half the original volume , or somewhat less . You do n't have to add sugar to evaporated milk , the sweet taste is caused by the heating . Especially the boiling-evaporated milk is quite sweet , because you get some caramelization .
I always let pizza dough rounds rise on a flat surface . A few options : Use plastic wrap or a large bowl covered by towel or plastic , as others have said . The dough can still stick to plastic wrap , but at least you 're not cleaning it off a towel . Invert a bowl over the dough that has a slightly larger diameter than the estimated final diameter of the dough . The dough will likely not dry out much , if at all . Make a proofing box with higher humidity . This is my preferred method . You just need a way to create a somewhat enclosed area of higher humidity . This can generally be accomplished with a cup filled with hot or boiling water initially . Some people use a microwave . ( Place dough in microwave along with cup of hot water . Shut door . Let proof . ) Others use a small oven . If you need more space , you can use an inverted large pan if you have one , or an inverted plastic bin . If you do n't have any of that and want to go really cheap , you can even make a larger box out of a cardboard box -- just tape up the bottom to " seal " very roughly , cut off the top flaps , and invert over your dough , along with the cup of hot water . It wo n't be a " tight seal , " but it will be enough to keep the dough surface moist for a while . ( For a very long proof , you can replace the water periodically as necessary . ) Professional bakers often have climate-controlled areas with higher humidity for these purposes . There are smaller proofing boxes manufactured for home use , though they tend to be quite pricey .
Salt moves due to differences in concentration , from regions of high concentration to regions of low concentration . So , when you boil brined fish , you surround the salty flesh with low salt concentration liquid , and thus the salt moves out to equalize the concentrations . Steaming the fish will not result in as much movement of salt , because steaming applies less total liquid to the surface of the fish . Steaming works because the very hot steam condenses onto the cooler food , and by condensing it liberates heat ( which transfers to the food ) . However , you still will have some movement of salt because the condensed steam on the surface of the fish remains at a lower salt concentration . Also , steaming is much gentler on the fish , since the meat is not being constantly agitated by boiling water . With less agitation comes less leaching . Grilling is the transfer of heat from pan to food , or from direct heat source to food . The temperatures are typically much higher than for steaming ( steam is at 212F , 100C ) , so you get entirely different chemical effects from the process ( e.g. , caramelization ) . Therefore , I doubt the fish would " fry " in its own oil in the case of steaming . If you 're concerned about maintaining the salinity of your brined fish , you could consider steaming it en Papillote , or even in foil . This would result in the fish cooking in its own moisture , essentially eliminating the leaching of salt ( although some salt would move to the surface , carried by the water ) .
The milk sugars will add a sweetness to the dish . Also , after the fish comes out , the milk can be reduced/thickened to make a bechemel sauce .
Yes . The important fat is the one the starch first goes into . The higher temperature reached by fats ( as compared to water or milk ) helps cook the flour , creating flavors . The liquid added later dilutes the mixture into a sauce . The liquid 's fats are not as crucial for the sauce 's thickness as the liquid 's proteins . I think of the cooked butter-flour mixture as a thickner that can be added to milk , broths , and even a saucy dish . The roux thickens way better than just a slurry of flour and a cold liquid . Jack Lang has written <URL> and the science is summarized in chapter 4 of <URL>
If you take your coffee sweet , ice cream works wonders , and it lasts in the freezer . Chocolate is my favorite . I recommend melting it before adding the coffee . This makes sense because ice cream is mostly milk and cream , with some flavorings -- usually of higher quality than are in artificial coffee creamers . I should add the trick I used in the dorms some years ago , when I had no refrigerator ( and an aunt to buy it ) : Bailey 's Irish Cream . Of course , the effect is somewhat different :-)
Yes , you could certainly reconstitute evaporated milk by adding water . The outcome would give you similar but not identical results as fresh milk , due to the change in flavor the milk underwent while being cooked down to the evaporated state : it will retain the slightly cooked , caramelized flavor . This may or many not have a significant effect on a given recipe . Milk also freezes , and still is suitable for most cooking purposes , should you choose to do so . Finally , if you use milk very rarely , unless you are making a dairy dominated recipe like custard or cream soup , you may not have to use milk at all . Water or another liquid might perform similarly or well enough -- it depends on the specific application .
The process of pasteurizing milk is to treat it with heat to kill microorganisms such as Brucella , Campylobacter , E. coli O157 : H7 , Listeria , Mycobacterium bovis , Salmonella , and Yersinia that may or may not be in the milk . This is a precautionary step that is taken when you are not 100 % sure whether your source of milk is disease free . Pasteurization can occur at different temperature for a different amount of time but the easiest temperature to pasteurize milk in the microwave is to bring it to 161 F for at least 15 seconds . Pasteurizing the milk in the microwave is a bit tricky because overheating it make cause it to boil over and it also heats the milk very unevenly . In the worse case scenario it can curdle if you overheat it . You will need to buy a thermometer for this method . You first want to microwave the milk for a minute . Then you want to stir the milk and take a temperature reading from the stirred milk . Now you want to continue to put the milk in the microwave in short 15-30 second intervals ( decreasing as it gets closer to 161 F ) and stirring and taking the temperature reading each time . When it has finally reach 161 F , you want to heat it for 15 extra seconds in the microwave and at that point it should be pasteurized . Another thing you can do is to just pasteurize it at home using your usual stove method and store the milk for later use . Once it has been pasteurized , as long as you refrigerate the milk , it will be good for a while . Just remember to quickly chill the milk ( using a ice water bath ) after you pasteurize it before you put it into the refrigerator .
Refrigerated coconut-based milk substitutes like Silk Pure Coconut or So Delicious Coconut Milk have a stated lifespan of 7-10 days after opening . I 've had cartons last longer than that without any change in taste or smell , but if it started tasting bad or smelling funky I would toss it . Unfortunately , this type of coconut milk product does not reconstitute well after freezing .
Some people think adding olive oil to pasta water will keep the pasta from sticking , but in reality it does absolutely nothing . Adding a tablespoon of oil to pasta water wo n't affect the outcome in the slightest , doing that is a waste of a good ingredient . Adding olive oil to pasta after it has been drained on the other hand will keep the pasta from sticking . It will also make it oily , which may not be what you want .
The biggest reason to heat milk to almost boiling before fermenting is that it improves the texture of the yogurt . During fermentation the bacteria consume lactose and produce lactic acid which causes the milk proteins to denature and coagulate trapping most of the fat . The proteins involved are primarily the casein proteins . When this happens , there is still quite a bit of protein left that is n't bound up in the new casein mesh . All of the albumin proteins are water soluble and will not add to the structure of the yogurt . These albumin proteins denature when they are heated . For this reason recipes universally call for the milk to be heated to 190 and then cooled . The albumin is denatured and is able to tangle up with the casein during fermentation and add to the yogurt structure . Skipping this step will make a very profound difference to the structure of your yogurt . Without it your yogurt will be thinner and much more fragile . When you scoop it there will be more whey and all that albumin will wash out in it . According to Harold McGee ( On Food and Cooking pp 48 ) " These treatments improve the consistency of the yogurt by denaturing the whey protein lactoglobulin , whose otherwise unreactive molecules then participate by clustering on the surfaces of the casein particles . With the helpful interference of the lactoglobulins , the casein particles can only bond to each other at a few spots , and so gather not in clusters but in a fine matrix of chains that is much better at retaining liquid in its small interstices . "
No , milk in and of itself does not prevent cakes from rising . There is noting in milk that changes the action of baking powder or baking soda . Just yesterday , for example , I made chocolate muffins with 1/2 cup of milk , chemically leavened , and they rose beautifully . There has to be some other factor involved , but you would need to add much more detail to your question in order to have a chance at identifying it .
Yes , you can safely soak it at room temperature , but why would you ? There 's no reason not to refrigerate . Meat is safe for about 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40F/4C to 140F/60C . Beyond that , it should be cooked or refrigerated . So , if you do decide to soak at room temperature you should cook or chill it promptly .
What you got is more properly characterized as buttermilk ( in the current usage of the term ) than yogurt . Pasteurization does not sterilize milk , and it can have been any kind of bacteria which can survive in milk . The process was the same as in any other cultured dairy : bacteria started multiplying , producing lactic acid which curdled and soured the milk . The harsher the pasteurization , the less chance that you happened to have an abundance of a benign culture . You could have gotten something dangerous , or harmless-but-gross . Traditional buttermilk making by leaving raw milk unseeded with any culture out and hoping that it harbors no baddies is also unsafe by today 's standards . So , if you want to produce buttermilk or yogurt , you are much better off starting with a culture . A few spoonfulls of prepared yogurt or buttermilk should work ( unless their culture was killed ) , but for best results , you should match culture and fermentation temperature .
Wash the shrimp and remove only the head . Insert a bamboo skewer along the shrimp from head to tail , running along the legs without touching flesh Drop into boiling , salted water for 3-5 minutes ( do not put a lid on ) ; after this period , they 'll change color and rise to the top . If they feel firm , they are cooked . Quickly place them into ice water , which helps them have good color and stops the flesh from shrinking and becoming hard . When shrimp are cold , remove from ice water and drain in a colander . To remove the skewer , use a screwing motion . For nigiri-sushi : Remove shell from around body , but not the tail . Butterfly cut open , cutting from head to tail along the belly with the knife only going halfway in . Use the knife or your fingers to open it up and flatten it carefully , without further breaking the flesh . Remove vein and rinse with lightly salted water . Lay on papertowels to drain . If using for sushi rolls , remove tail and cut in half lengthwise .
The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels . I have used both methods and have n't noticed a difference in the bread produced . In very dry climates , when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience . Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover .
I think the water content of the rasgullas cause it to break . To make sure that they 're ready , after you drain the water from the paneer , take a bit of paneer on your palm and knead it with your thumb for about 40 seconds . You should be able to roll out a firm yet <URL> off it . If you ca n't form balls , it means you will have to squeeze out more water from the paneer . In the end you should have something like a soft dough . It takes a while to get it just right . If you ca n't make perfect balls in your first few shots at it , you can make rasmalai / kheer/paneer pedas out of it , so it wo n't be a wasteful disaster after-all . Refer to these articles/videos : Sources : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL>
end question
start question
How to carve poultry ?
This is difficult to describe without pictures or diagrams . However I have found a <URL> on YouTube courtesy of Gourmet magazine .
You could certainly get a cookbook of side dishes and learn some new favourites , but what might be more useful is a book that teaches you about flavour combinations and menu planning . I would suggest <URL> as one such book . It 's not about specific recipes ( you can find those elsewhere or make them up ) , but rather it addresses the kind of skill you 're looking to learn . One technique is to consider the origin of the main dish and choose side dishes from the same region . Seasonality or market-based shopping is another approach to expanding your repertoire .
I have a " Grill Wok " that I received as a gift that looks like this : It is great for grilling potatoes . Peel and cube to about 1 " pieces . Par boiling or microwaving works equally well for blanching the cubes . Toss in a large bowl with olive oil and melted butter Add seasoning : salt , pepper , chili powder , oregano , etc. ( to taste ) Allow Grill Wok to preheat on the grill , when hot add potatoes . Cook till golden brown ( I believe mine was obtained at Bass Pro Shop , but they are available elsewhere )
A roux normally is equal parts fat and flour . It should be fairly solid , not runny . However , it is an individual decision . I 've known guys who like it quite solid ( like me ) , but you have to whisk the hell out of it to get out all of the lumps . Normally , if I am making a sauce or soup that I ca n't strain , I will make it a little slack . I also add my roux after so I can control the thickness of the sauce or soup . Normally you are not instructed to do so , but you have greater control . If you do it this way , you have to vigorously whisk while adding , or the starches will congeal together in lumps . No big deal if it you are able to strain , but ...
You ca n't really substitute marshmallows in that recipe . I have had some luck with the following procedure : Get a good quality chocolate of the flavour you would like to use . Do not try chocolates with 70 % cocoa solids or more . They are good for some things , but not for this . Melt it in a double boiler . Do not make the chocolate boil or heat it directly ( some can do that but most people end up with burned chocolate ) . Remove it from the heat . Fold in 2 spoons of glycose syrup ( for regular nonmilky chocolate ) and mix fast . Let it cool and when it gets close to room temperature , put it in the fridge . For darker chocolates , use a bit more glucose and less for lighter chocolates .
Basically , it is that easy . But it is a costly endeaver . I have know chefs to make it with a pure olive oil or grape seed oil . Some heat it to 220 degrees or so but I have meet some that do n't . The ones that did n't made sure to pull the oxygen from the bottle with one of those wine vacuum savers . I have been told self made truffle oil will lose it truffle flavor due to most the flavor actually coming from an odorant . I have not personally made any so I ca n't speak from experience on how long it will hold . All the above being said . If I had the money to buy some truffle , I am not sure the best use for them would be to make truffle oil .
Draining the juice , refilling the jar with oil and then storing to reduce the acidity wo n't work because : Acid and lye can be diluted only with water or liquids like water ( if I remember correctly , ethanol will also work ) but not oil . You might run into the risk of botulism . ( Maybe not since the mushrooms are sour . If you do n't measure the pH you ca n't be sure ) . The only thing you can do is to soak the portion of mushrooms you intend to eat in water before eating . Replacing the brine with water of the whole jar beforehand to lower the pH will shorten the shelf life significantly .
Depends on the type of cabbage , but I 've had success with prepping as if I was about to boil , and then freeze on a dry cloth ; Once frozen , transfer to an air tight freezer bag , and use as fast as is practical .
Regarding your questions : 1 ) How can the bread be cut with the least amount of crumbles ? Traditionally migas de pastor ( shepherd 's migas ) were the result of rubbing a piece or very dry bread with a couple of rough hands . If you do n't rough hands , another way is rubbing 2 halves ( lengthways ) of a bread stick . This way the migas are all crumbs , but those are traditional migas . If you want to chop the bread and have dices of bread to fry : Traditional recipes call for dicing bread the day before you cook migas . I advise you to dice the bread ( size of normal dice would be fine , bigger would be ok too ) when the bread is still soft . Because , if bread is too dry can be even a bit dangerous to chop ... ( does it depend on the bread type , the time the bread has gone stale , should the bread be fresh or completely dry , etc ) Type of bread : Tradicional recipes call for breads such as chiabatta / candeal . These breads have a strong crust . Nowadays , breads like baguette or , if you 're living in Spain , the common " pistolas " are ok too ( and easier to chop / dice too ) . Time for bread going stale : it depends of the real quality of bread and your living location . Meaning : the more artisan the bread is , the longer time time would need to go stale . A common bread is normally not so good , so it really depends where you live . Regarding your location : If you live close to the sea , bread would go even softer , like chewing gum , do n't expect like stone-stale bread . If you live in a drier environment , it will get dry and stale in a couple of days . I would wait much time , because believe me it is really difficult to chop and dice when bread gets very dry . Therefore , experience is the key for every migas cook ! I know it 's not very exact , but that 's the way it is ... About purchasing the bread fresh or not : In Spain , in places where migas are a very common dish , you can find diced migas ready to fry in a normal supermarket . Outside these regions , you would only find normal " fresh " bread . How can you fry the bread in such a way that the outside is fried and the inside is moist ? ( is there an amount of water that can be measured , how hot should the pan be , which pan should be used , how much oil should be used ) Water and oil needed : Any spanish granny would say that there is no measure for this ... crazy , huh ? I found some recipes which call for 1 glass of water ( 250 ml ) per half bread stick . Some recipes say to wait 12 hours to moisture bread , some others do n't ... Oil : this is really your choice . I advise to cover the base of a frying pan with olive oil and some garlic cloves , when it is hot , add the diced bread and cover bread with oil . If you see oil has n't moisture all the bread in the pan , add some more , little by little . Greasy migas are not so good ... About the pan : it is better to use a pan like <URL> , not so deep not so flat either . Oh , and you did n't say anything about chorizo or panceta ( fresh bacon ) . Without them migas are not real ;) Fried them before adding to the migas . Hope this helps !!
Use a salted ice-water bath . The water increases the contact and heat dissipation , and adding salt allows the temperature to go below freezing .
Properly ? You throw it in a pit with hard wood coals for at least 8 hours . Of course we do n't refer to that as roasting . :) Oven roasting is easier . Turn the oven on to 250F or so . Put something flavorful on the roast . Stick in a probe thermometer and put it in the oven . Remove when the thermometer reads 150F . Let it rest for a few minutes before carving . For more color and fat rendering you can roast at 450F for 10 minutes before dropping the oven to 250F and putting in the thermometer . Flavorings are varied of course . Apple works well .
There 's <URL> . <URL> seems pretty simple . It looks like in general , you : Liquify your peppers Cook the result with vinegar Strain it Cook the result with salt and sugar Add some pectin Add some whole jalepenos ( probably optional ) Transfer to jars
Simple : grate it . If you grate the nutmeg using a microplane , it should have a strong , distinctive odor you can smell from a couple feet away . If it does n't , it 's lost its flavor , throw it away and buy new . It 's fairly likely you 're going to end up replacing it . I 've never seen nutmegs get moldy before , and I live somewhere with 80 % humidity . It would have to be stored in some very poor conditions to mold .
To answer my own question , after experiencing , once cooked , the brik stays crisp for over a week .
I think this question is hard to answer exactly . The easiest way to estimate the duration of the steak in the oven is to cook the steak at ~ 260 ° C and after > 3 minutes each side ( altogether > 6 minutes ) to measure the inner temperature of the steak . 57-60 ° C should be medium rare . Of course this his method requires a thermometer . ( source : <URL> and <URL> )
Aromatics are at least half of taste . Its like when you go to a restaurant and have to wash your clothes when you get home because they smell just like what you ate . Potatoes do n't have any particular dominating flavor , they generally inherit whatever flavor they are exposed to ; chicken is much the same way . Tuna on the other hand has a very pungent aroma . I would n't be surprised to see the fries take on the tuna aroma and " taste " a little fishy . Try temporarily covering your fries while you cook other things . That should help .
Adding salt and lemon should do it , or at least help a lot . What you want to do is to chop them up and rub in a little salt and a splash of lemon juice ( vinegar should work too ) . Obviously you do n't want to add so much of either that you wo n't want to eat the onion . Leave to sit in the fridge overnight and enjoy .
At least in the case of marinades containing acids ( such as vinegar or lemon juice ) or certain enzymes , especially from papayas , kiwis , or most commonly ( at least in the US ) , fresh pineapple juice , a certain amount of denaturing of the proteins will occur at the surface of the marinated meat . This will turn it opaque rather than translucent -- chicken will look kind of white . This is perfectly normal , and safe . Depending on the color of the marinade , and the particular cut being marinated , some of the marinade may also penetrate into the meat , changing its color as well . These are normal effects , and assuming you have otherwise respected good practices ( keeping the meat refrigerated during the marination , not holding the food uncooked longer than would be safe without the marinate , and not cross-contaminating and so on ) , the product should be safe to eat . In the case of your meat marinated triple the planned time , the outcome will depend on the nature of the particular marinade . If there was active enzymatic action , it could be very mush to the point of unpleasantness . On the other hand , if the marinade was mostly for flavor , rather than highly acidic , it might just have a more intense flavor from the marinade . Edit : I should add for clarity , above means ...
There 's just no comparison between in-season , local tomatoes that you get in Italy and the supermarket crap you get anywhere else , which probably accounts for most of the difference . Your best bet is to look for heirloom tomatoes , in season . Failing that , try New Jersey beefsteak tomatoes , again , in season . Or any of the " vine ripened " tomatoes you see in fancy grocery stores , although every year those get harder and more tasteless . Finally , if desperate , and you have no choice but to use supermarket rock tomatoes , at least get plum tomatoes , which manage to retain a tiny bit of flavor . Bruschetta is just : yesterday 's bread ( ciabatta or a French baguette ) , thinly sliced , brushed with olive oil , and grilled or toasted chopped tomatoes garlic , basil , Italian parsley , and any other tasty herbs you have lying around ( Oregano ? ) The finest extra virgin olive oil in the house Salt and pepper to taste
Adding your pasta to cold water before boiling it may help . You will need to stir more often overall , but the shells wo n't initially stick together as soon as you add them to the water , and then you can stir to prevent the sticking as they become softer . <URL> wrote this : I prefer starting with cold water , because the noodles do n't stick together at all as they go into the pot , and because I do n't notice a difference in flavor once they 're drained and sauced . As Jefromi said , what happens is that the starch on the noodles gets rinsed off in the water before it can gelatinize and stick to everything . So you will have to stir even before the water gets warm .
end question
start question
How can I get frozen egg whites out of the ice tray ?
So to sum up , so far , we have : use a silicon tray , there should be no problems there . put the tray in warm water for a short while and they would let go .
Refrigerate it and the fat will get on top of the water .
Not sure how much rice you are making , but if making about 2 cups of rice , first heat 3 tablespoons of peanut oil over Medium High heat . Add the rice and toast it in the oil until it releases a nutty fragrance - about 1-2 minutes . Then I like to use Chicken stock ( 3 cups ) to finish it off . Personal preference but I like to add scallions ( green onions ) and cilantro to the rice when it is done . Cooking it this way I have not noticed a tremendous taste difference from different brands of Jasmine Rice .
Certainly yes . In fact , aged egg whites can whip better - sensitive applications like macarons will frequently prescribe holding the separated egg whites for a day or two before using .
The reason dry yeast is so popular is that it is easier to store , and is less persnickety about it than fresh yeast . Treat dry yeast right and it can last for a couple of years or more . Fresh yeast is highly perishable , and it should be frozen if you 're not going to use it within a couple of days . If you 're lucky , you can get significantly more time from fresh yeast by freezing it within just a day or two of getting it home . The thing is , yeast is a living thing and you just ca n't know what experiences it has had before arriving in your kitchen . As such , it 's impossible to predict just how much extra ( past the expiration date ) time you are going to get from freezing it . A month ? Probably . Two months ? I would n't count on it , but maybe . 6 months ? Highly unlikely , but stranger things have happened . If you do freeze fresh yeast , wrap it very well . Moisture and air are your enemies . Do put it in the refrigerator at least 12 hours prior to use , then let it spend the last hour on the counter . As a last step before putting together your dough , proof it . Proof the yeast by mixing it with the warm ( 100Fish ) water called for in the recipe and , if applicable , the sugar . If there is no sugar in the recipe , give it a 1/2 tsp of flour ( per loaf ) . Within 5-10 minutes it should be quite bubbly and growing . If it does n't look like it 's doing much , throw it away . You might as well throw away all of the yeast you have from that batch . Go to the store and get more yeast before proceeding with the recipe . Properly stored , yeast usually dies at least somewhat gradually . You may see a slight progressive decrease in the vigor of your yeast as it gets older . Personally , once I see that I 'll use it that time , but I 'll get more for next time . Anymore , fresh yeast is hardly seen except in professional bakeries . It 's easy to see why . If you 're going to make multiple loaves in a week , then maybe fresh yeast is worth it . Now that I have found 2 pound packages of Fleischmann 's instant dry yeast ( expiration almost 2 years out ) at Sam 's Club for $ 6 , I think my days of messing with fresh yeast are over . ( BTW 2lbs of dry yeast = about 130 loaves ) EDIT : Interestingly , Red Star disagrees and does n't recommend freezing fresh yeast . This goes against my experience and the cynic in me wonders of their recommendation has more to do with selling yeast than anything else .
You ' can ' cook it from frozen , knowing that a few things will suffer . First , the outside will be somewhat dried out and over-cooked before it is done in the center , depending on how hot the oven is and the cooking time . That being said , if your Haggis is pre-cooked , it should be OK . You can also ' Hurry up ' the defrosting process by putting it under running water . This can affect texture , depending on what you are defrosting . Finally , you can speed-defrost something by using warm running water , but this carries SOME SERIOUS RISK if you do n't cook it right away . The bacteria will love the warmth and will start to multiply , but I have done this many times when I knew I was using a meat immediately .
This really depends on your freezer and your icecream bowl . Usually the instructions will have a suggested freeze time on them ... In my experience , however , it 's usually 6-8 hours at a minimum . If you need to make multiple batches , it is ABSOLUTELY worth your money to get another bowl .
Getting the Vanilla from the bean to the taste bud takes time . While many will advocate the use of fresh vanilla beans ( as you have tried ) , I have always preferred the flavor that is granted from a good vanilla extract . In my opinion it is stronger and better distributed throughout the dish . Whether you buy or <URL> I think you will get a more consistent and rich flavor that way . ( note : thanks to @rfusca for providing the extract link in a <URL> )
If you whisk egg whites to much they will definitely separate . Basically you are over tightening their stretchy proteins which squeeze out all the water . You are left with useless protein fluff floating on water . The flavor and odor will not change , however . That would be a sign off spoiling and unrelated to the whisking .
This is the nature of meringue : they will start to fall apart as soon as you stop whipping . There are a few tricks to help it hold longer , but in general you want to have EVERYTHING ready to go as soon as the meringue is whipped . To help stabilize the meringue you can : Use a copper or SILVER-plated bowl to whip , or add a tiny amount of powdered copper supplement from a health food store Acidify it slightly : add 1/8 tsp cream of tartar or 1/2 tsp lemon juice per white , before beating Let the bowl warm to room temperature , which increases the ability of the whites to take in air Ensure there is absolutely no yolk in with the whites . The fat greatly destabilizes the foam . Now for WHY these tricks work : I 'm going to quote heavily from Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " , as it does a wonderful job explaining meringues and other whipped egg whites : Like the head on a beer or a cappucino , an egg foam is a liquid -- the white -- filled with a gas -- air -- in such a way that the mixuture of liquid and gas keeps its shape , like a solid . It 's a mass of bubbles , with air inside each bubble , and the white spread out into a thin film to form the bubble walls . And the makeup of these liquid walls determines how long a foam can stand up . Pure water has such a strong surface tension -- such strong attractive forces among its molecules -- that it immediately starts to pull itself together into a compact puddle ; and it 's so runny that it puddles almost immediately . The many nonwater molecules in egg white both reduce the surface tension of the water they float in , and make it less runny , and thus allow the bubbles to survive long enough to accumulate in a sizeable mass . What gives the mass of foam a useful kitchen lifetime is the white 's team of proteins . Whisking unfolds these proteins , primarily globulins and ovotranferrin , which bond to each other and stabilize the bubble walls . Cooking will evaporate the water and unfold ovoalbumin , creating a rigid and permanent protein network . However , the same proteins can ALSO destabilize the foam if they bond too tightly . " The protein network begins to collapse when too many of these bonds accumulate and the proteins cluster together too tightly " ( page 102 ) . In the case of egg proteins , one of the strongest bonds is a disulfide bond between the sulfur-containing amino acids , cysteine and methionine . Eggs contain copious quantities of these amino acids , which are why they produce such a potent stench when they spoil ; the sulfur is converted to malodorous sulfur compounds , particularly hydrogen sulfide . Copper , silver , and acids stabilize the egg foam by preventing the formation of these disulfide bonds . To quote Harold McGee ( page 103 ) : It turns out that along with a few other metals , copper has the useful tendency to form extremely tight bonds with reactive sulfur groups : so tight that the sulfur is essentially preventing from reacting with anything else . So the presence of copper in foaming eggs whites essentially eliminates the strongest kind of protein bond that can form , and makes it harder for the proteins to embrace each other too tightly . McGee also notes that silver has the same property of inhibiting disulfide bonding . Acid achieves the same goal of reducing disulfide bonding , but works slightly differently : The sulfur bonds form when the sulfur-hydrogen ( S-H ) groups on two different protein molecules shed their hydrogens and form a sulfur-sulfur ( S-S ) connection with each other . The addition of an acid boosts the number of free-floating hydrogen ( H ) ions in the egg white , which makes it much harder for the S-H groups to shed their own H , and so slows the sulfur bonding down to a crawl .
I can not tell you how they do it at that specific location , how your method differs , or what you 're doing wrong . I do n't really even know exactly how you 're brewing your coffee . However , I can tell you how to brew a consistent cup using the best possible practices . Here 's a list of things to consider Grind your coffee immediately ( not the night before ) before brewing Use a Burr Grinder , not a blade grinder . This will ensure that the grounds are of a consistent size , and provides even extraction . There is no reputable coffee shop that uses a blade grinder , and with good reason . Get a Burr grinder . If you do n't want to drop the cash you can get a hand mill for about ~ $ 20-30 . Weight your beans , do not measure them by Volume . Beans from different regions and varieties vary in density , and size . This can really throw off volume measurements . Use filtered water . Most coffee shops will have a filtration system for the entire store to prevent mineral build up in their coffee and espresso machines , as well as providing a better cup of coffee . Learn how coffee hits your palate , and learn how to adjust your brewing variables ( grind size , water/coffee ratio , brew time , temperature ) . Ditch the auto-drip . Learn how to do a manual pourover or press pot . You 'll have much more control over your brewing variables , and be able to pin point the extraction method that fits your palate best . I deeply urge you to try coffee that is n't Starbucks . Starbucks might be a notch above grocery store coffee , but is n't at all interesting ( to put it lightly ) . Try Stumptown , Blue Bottle , Intellegensia , Ruby 's Colorful Coffees . You 'll likely forget about Starbucks soon after trying coffee 's from any of the roasters I listed . Like I said . Starbucks is n't really interesting coffee . Its pretty bland , brewed with a standard auto-drip . If it tastes different it could be for many reasons , such as sitting in a thermos for a long period of time , or the grounds may sit too long after being ground . Typically larger auto-drip machines use a coarser grind because the hopper is larger . This can affect taste . There 's too many variables to nail down how to brew exactly like that starbucks store . In the mean time , I urge you to try more interesting bean varieties . You 're really missing out . For the record , Starbucks main competition ... McDonalds . Give it a read <URL>
Yes , it matters a lot . When you are separating egg whites , it is for whipping them into a foam . This foam is a protein-based foam , relying on protein ends hooking into each other . Even small traces of fat will prevent the foam from forming . Egg yolks contain high amounts of fat . Once an egg yolk breaks in your whites , you have to start the separation anew , because it can prevent your foam from forming . Also , do n't use plastic bowls for whipping egg whites ( their surface retains some fat molecules even after washing , giving you a less stable foam ) and only whip with a cleanly washed whisk or mixer attachment ( not one you have just used for something else , not even if you wiped it clean ) . To prevent big mishaps , just separate each new egg in a teacup and only add the new white to the old whites after it has separated cleanly . Else you are in big trouble if you are separating a lot and the last egg contaminates the whole whites with yolk . And a single contaminated egg is easily reused for a quick egg-and-feta sandwich or something else . Contamination the other way round is n't so worrisome . You still want to work as precisely as possible , as yolk-only recipes will often have somewhat worse texture if eggwhite is included , but small contaminating amounts are usually not noticeable in the finished product , even in foams ( zabaglione , mayonnaise ) . This is because yolk foams are fat-based , and small amounts of protein do n't prevent a fat foam from forming .
A quote from the below link ; " Do not thaw frozen seafood at room temperature . Thaw in the refrigerator or defrost in the microwave oven . If thawing in the refrigerator , allow one to two hours per pound of seafood " . <URL> &amp; Another quote from the link below ; " ... If food is allowed to remain at room temperature for two hours or longer , bacteria can multiply and cause food poisoning . - Even a tiny amount of contaminated food can cause severe illness . If you have any doubt about the safety of the food , throw it out ! " <URL>
They are a little hard to find , but if you can find a " Bismarck " pastry tip , they have an elongated tip that is perfect for poking into your cream puff to fill . And , on a side note , a couple ways to keep your pastry tube from getting so messy ... Put it inside a drinking glass and fold it down over the sides to fill it . This holds it open and you 're less likely to spill all over the edges . Then , once you gather the open end , use a rubber band to tightly hold it closed . This reduces the mess dramatically .
Flour paste . Mix flour with water and a bit of salt . Go for a thick glaze-like consistency , and use it instead of the egg . Give it at least 10 minutes to hold before frying , and try to hold the edges closed with tongs when initially frying .
Please see the full answer to <URL> , excerpt below : When you break the eggs into the pan , you will notice that the yolks are surrounded by a higher rounded portion of whites . The secret is to take your fingers and pinch this pile of whites gently until it breaks and the whites in this membrane will redistribute evenly in the pan . From your description , the chef most likely cracked the eggs into a bowl rather than directly into the pan , but that should n't make any difference .
Based on their ingredients they should be pretty similar ( Orgran : Potato starch , Tapioca flour , Calcium carbonate , Citric acid , vegetable gum ( stabiliser ) : Methylcellulose vs. Ener-G : Potato Starch , tapioca starch flour , leavening ( calcium lactate , calcium carbonate , citric acid ) , sodium carboxymethylcellulose , methylcellulose ) . Do you have any bulk food co-ops / health stores in your area ? Sometimes they sell Ener-G or similar products in bulk , that way you can just buy the few tablespoons that you need and try it out before investing in the whole box .
Working in restaurants similar things to this happened a lot . Our quick fix that usually did the trick was 50/50 vinegar and water and boil it off as mentioned above . Lemon juice or even orange should work instead of vinegar for a better scent . At a guess , the more acidy fluids help break down any splatter that may have gone into the vents . Hint : this is also great to do just before cleaning the microwave , even baked on splatter comes off easily after the steam .
Per the <URL> , frozen chicken should not be cooked in a slow-cooker or a microwave . It can only safely be cooked in the oven or on the stovetop . A similar warning is given for <URL> as well .
Referring to the quotes from the below links ; • " Baked cheesecake should be refrigerated as soon as it is cool or it may develop harmful bacteria from heat resistant spores . " <URL> • " Foods made with eggs and milk such as pumpkin pie , custard pie and cheesecake , must first be safely baked to a safe minimum internal temperature of 160 ° F. Then , they must be refrigerated after baking . Eggs and milk have high protein and moisture content and when these baked products are left at room temperature , conditions are ripe for bacteria to multiply . It 's not necessary to refrigerate most other cakes , cookies or breads unless they have a perishable filling or frosting . " <URL> When to throw it out ; a quote from the link below ; " Refrigerator Foods When to Save and When to Throw It Out FOOD ... ... ... ... . Held above 40 ° F for over 2 hours Cheesecake ... ... . . Discard <URL>
end question
start question
Will tomatoes keep for longer if you keep the stalk in ?
Removing the stem from a tomato opens up a hole where air , moisture , and bacteria can pass through . Keeping the stem in , or somehow sealing the " scar " from the stem , will prolong shelf life . ( Published in Cook 's Illustrated - requires subscription - <URL> )
According to the <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Freezing is the easiest way to preserve pumpkin , and it yields the best quality product . Select full-colored mature pumpkin with fine texture ( not stringy or dry ) . Wash , cut into cooking-size sections and remove seeds . Cook until soft in boiling water , in steam , in a pressure cooker , or in an oven . Remove pulp from rind and mash . To cool , place pan containing pumpkin in cold water and stir occasionally ( So Easy to Preserve , 2006 ) . Pack into rigid containers leaving headspace , and freeze . They offer suggest a variety of cooking methods before freezing the flesh of the pumpkin , but you may find that roasting offers the least work and best flavor development . Pressure canning of cubed ( but not mashed or pureed ) pumpkin is also possible ( as pumpkin is a low acid fruit , boiling water canning is not appropriate ) . You should use only a <URL> if you choose to go this route . You can also make <URL> , although this does not to leave the pumpkin suitable for many recipes , and is only suitable if this the actual product you desire .
Some quick research indicates there are enzymes in freshly-squeezed juice that will degrade it fairly rapidly , and that they can be deactivated by heat . Of course , that also changes the flavor ( especially since you 're not going to be able to quickly heat and cool it , as it apparently only takes 30 seconds , but any method doable in a home kitchen will keep it hot much longer than that ) . So heat-deactivation is out . Even commercially-produced ( that is , both pasteurized and enzyme-deactivated ) juice is only supposed to keep 6 days in the fridge , so that 's out . Your best bet , then , is to freeze it . According to the University of California 's Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources <URL> , you can freeze in clean glass jars or rigid plastic freeze containers . They also note that navel oranges ( and their juice ) do not freeze well -- they will become bitter . Well , either that , or store the fruit instead , and only juice it as needed .
I 'd deglaze the pan after each pan and transfer the juices to a small bowl to make a sauce I would wipe/clean ( no soap ) the pan after each batch . After the last batch , transfer the bowl content and make a sauce with the last pan drippings and what you already have .
Taste the meat and if it still seems edible to you then there is no reason to throw it out . When I make stock , I keep it on a simmer for much longer than three hours and any meat is completely tasteless by the time I 'm done . Three hours , however , is about how long you would cook meat to make a stew , so it 's quite possible that you could eat it . On the other hand , not all cuts of meat stew well and I 'm not familiar with this cut . If the meat has plenty of connective tissues ( i.e. collagen ) to gelatinise it should n't dry out too much . But the proof is in the pudding : taste it .
I 've preserved cut fruit for at least 6 hours before using just lemon juice . Lemon juice inhibits the oxidation of the fruit which prevents browning as well of a loss of crispness . One lemon should be enough juice for a 1.5 quart bowl of cut fruit . Simply squeeze it over the fruit and toss gently to prevent bruising . Since you 'll be working with apples , kiwis , and bananas I think your best bet will be to keep them separate . The lemon juice will benefit both the apples and bananas , but might only be marginally effective if unnecessary for kiwi -- since kiwi brings plenty of its own citric acid to the table . The fruit should be stored in the refrigerator to additionally inhibit oxidation . In my experience covering it with plastic wrap with a few holes poked in it works great . Aluminum foil should be fine as well . I find that the covering is primarily to protect your fruit from picking up other odors from within your fridge , and the holes permit the fruit to " breathe " releasing the buildup of ethylene gas that will occur if it is completely sealed . If lemon juice is undesired you can use other citrus juices including : lime juice , orange juice , and pineapple juice . Obviously they will all bring their own flavors . If this flavoring is altogether undesired , then you should consider getting a commercial product called <URL> . It 's basically a powdered citric-acid , and kosher to boot .
No . In most ( all ? ) places that sell chicken eggs in quantity , the eggs are not fertile . For that , there needs to be a rooster involved . The hen that laid your egg does n't hang out with roosters . Your best bet is to acquire a few fertilized eggs from a farmer who keeps chickens . You can also buy fertilized eggs online , just search for " fertilized chicken eggs for sale " .
The idea of creaming is definitely to incorporate some air into the fat-sugar mixture , which should give the final product a lighter texture . So perhaps your cake was a little heavier than it was supposed to be . Good creaming also helps distribute the fat well . But maybe you managed to mix some more air in later in the recipe - certainly I imagine you could do better beating the batter with a stand mixer than I can by hand ! And with a stand mixer I 'm sure it was all mixed fine , too . So if the cakes were n't too heavy for you , it 's not anything to worry about .
Not all turkeys are the same , and personally , I would not risk letting an entire turkey go rancid in the refrigerator . There is so much you do n't know about this turkey : How was it butchered ? In particular , how long was it sitting on the block and was it packed immediately afterward or left sitting out for a long time ? How quickly was it cooled down to " transporting " temperature after butchering ? Was it transported immediately , or was it stored for a while before transport , and if so , what were those storage conditions ? How specifically was it transported ? What were the environmental conditions , aside from temperature ? Was it exposed to air ? Could it have picked up any other contaminants ? Just how cold was the refrigerator at Trader Joe 's ? Are you sure that it 's consistently that cold ? What if the turkey was shifted around ? For example , what if some other customer picked it up , tossed it in a shopping cart , then after an hour of shopping decided to put it back ? How did she transport it ? I 'm guessing in a non-temperature-controlled trunk ? How long was it in that condition/environment before finally making it into the fridge ? Was the temperature in the fridge turned down as far as it can go long before putting the turkey in there ? If not , how long might it have taken to get down to the desired temperature , especially with a massive slightly-warmed-up turkey in there ? How cold does her refrigerator get ? Is it a new refrigerator ? Are you both certain that it gets as cold as the rep at TJ 's is assuming ? Have you actually stuck a thermometer in there to measure the environmental temperature around where the turkey would be stored ? I 'm not expecting you to answer any of these ; my point is just that there are so many variables , so many things that can go wrong , and the quoted 10-day storage period ( as well as the sell-by date ) is for storage under ideal conditions . I 've seen turkeys go rancid in the fridge after just 2 days . I 've seen others take longer , but still far less than 10 days to go rancid . It 's an incredibly frustrating and completely avoidable experience . Just put it in the freezer ! She just needs to make sure she gives it a couple of days to thaw in the fridge , due to the size of the bird . A half-frozen turkey on Thanksgiving day is almost as useless as a rancid one .
The brewed coffee stays in contact with the ground , even though you pressed the sieve to the bottom . It will eventually release the unwanted flavors it contains , albeit slowly . The ground coffee should be in contact with the hot water for about 30 seconds . See <URL> for the caffeine content .
This is generally referred to as " lacto-fermented " mayonnaise . The whey is assumed to have active bacteria , and most recipes insist on a room temperature rest for at least several hours . During this time , I suppose the assumption is that the bacteria from the whey will ferment and produce sufficient acidity to act as a preservative ( as in sauerkraut or something ) . The idea is not completely without merit . As discussed in my answer to <URL> , there is a well-documented and validated food science procedure for killing off harmful bacteria in homemade mayonnaise , which involves sufficient acid content and a rest at room temperature before refrigeration . Mayonnaise that follows this advice should be roughly as shelf-stable as commercial mayonnaise , and its acidity will make it a poor growth medium for most harmful bacteria . It will generally deteriorate in quality not due to spoilage bacteria , but due to oils going rancid and other such processes that will degrade texture and flavor over a period of weeks . On the other hand , I have serious doubts that a few hours at room temperature with a tablespoon of whey is going to produce a consistent level of acidity to ensure safety and longer preservation . You simply do n't know the bacteria count and activity in the whey , how well it may grow ( if at all ) in the mayonnaise , and how much it will lower the pH. ( In a quick search , I could n't find comparable food science research on using lactofermentation to achieve safe homemade mayo , but it may be out there . It sounds implausible to me , not least because of the lack of sufficient food in mayo for the lactic fermentation to produce a lot of acidity . ) If you want to make safe homemade mayo , you need sufficient acidity . Usually that comes from lemon juice or vinegar . It 's that simple . And with adequate acidity , it will likely have a reasonable shelf life of more than just a few days . There is further advice and thoughts on that issue <URL> . But I would not recommend this whey-based technique to ensure food safety . EDIT : Despite the huge number of recipes online for lacto-fermented mayonnaise , I 've been unable to find any reputable food scientist vouching for even the possibility of significant fermentation occurring in mayonnaise . Nobody reputable even discusses it ( probably since , as I said above , it does n't make a lot of sense ) . Anyhow , I did manage to find this , in a <URL> maintained by a prominent fermentation Facebook group : MYTH : Mayonnaise can be fermented by adding a bit of whey or sauerkraut juice and letting it sit on the counter for [ x ] hours . FACT : Oil can not be fermented , and mayonnaise is primarily oil with a small amount of egg yolk emulsified into it . All bacteria have an absolute moisture threshold necessary for their survival and function , which mayonnaise does n't provide ... The amount of moisture that is available for use is called the Water Activity level , or aW . Pure water has an aW of 1.0 . Lactic acid bacteria require a minimum aW of 0.94 , but not much activity will occur below 0.95 and a level closer to 1.0 is needed for vigorous growth . Mayonnaise has an aW of 0.93 or lower ... I would n't say this qualifies as a reputable source for food science ( and I have n't checked the facts ) , but the reasoning is plausible , as bacteria simply do n't grow well in mayonnaise . If anyone can find any better food science on topic , I 'd be interested .
Most cured products last 7-10 days in the fridge although you most likely will see a quality drop off before then at around day three or four . You can also freeze the bacon for up to two months and thaw for use to extend the shelf life .
Without knowing the constituent ingredients of the sausage it is difficult to give exact advice . There are generally two types of chorizo fresh ( or cooking chorizo ) and cured chorizo . Fresh or cooking chorizo is made with pork , red wine , smoked paprika and salt ( along with some other spices depending on the particular recipe ) . The alcohol and salt combine as a mild preservative and therefore the sausage will last a little longer than a normal fresh sausage but only a few weeks realistically . As the name and the lack of a long curing process suggests it needs cooking before it can be eaten . Cured chorizo is made using similar ingredients but uses more salt and sometimes some sodium nitrate and nitrite . The additional chemicals create a much stronger preservative drawing out the moisture and curing the meat so that it can be safely eaten raw when finished . Cured chorizo develops a darker colour and loses around 30 % of it 's weight as it hangs whereas the fresh chorizo is likely to go bad if left to hang but this is only general advice and not definitive . As for hanging locations , sausages normally hang best in cool environments , 15 degrees C max , with a humidity of 60-70 % . Hope this helps .
For what it 's worth , I read once that you should briefly soak seitan in a bowl , covered in boiled water , to soften it up before using it . I have tried this , and it really does make a difference in the final texture . I typically cut it into cubes , soak it for about 10-15 minutes , then drain it and proceeded as normal for the recipe .
Use a sharp knife , dull knives do n't slice , they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits . Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique . You should n't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine . You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement , so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot . By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they wo n't " snap " apart but will be sliced apart neatly . Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos , then practice , and start slowly . You will get faster with time and time only , do n't rush it or you 'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself .
Unless your fridge is above 40 F ( 4 C ) , it wo n't go bad . I 've had large frozen turkeys take 4 days to thaw before . Just use it once it is fully thawed , do n't let it sit around thawed for several more days . There 's no food that I 'm aware of that goes bad in the time it takes to thaw it . The stilltasty link below shows 3-5 days for refrigerated meat , and 4-6 months for frozen . Transitioning from frozen to thawed though , I generally count on defrost time + 2-3 days . If you want to thaw it faster you can always use the cold water method . Simply place it in a sink full of cold water ( submerged ) and change the water every 30 minutes . The rule of thumb for turkey is 30 minutes of thaw time per pound . I imagine pork shoulder would be similar , maybe a little longer ? Additional Info : <URL>
<URL> gives you 3-5 days on cooked onions in the fridge - after that , tightly wrapped and airtight into the freezer .
I suggest using a brine . Lots of brining details can be found in the answers to this question : <URL> Alton Brown has a really great recipe for <URL> . You can watch the <URL> on YouTube in which he covers brining turkey . I also suggest reading <URL> ( PDF ) from Cook 's Illustrated .
Use common advices : closed jars , in a fresh and dark place ( a bodega is wonderful for keeping the spices ) . Direct sun is one of the worst enemies . And when everything else fails , consume it ... f.ex . this very simple recipe , just rice + veg stock + mushrooms + garlic + persil + saffron <URL>
The dates you have are probably brahi , whereas the ones you remember eating before are medjhoul . These are different types of dates , and have slightly different flavour profiles . As for storage , they should be fine for a few days at room temperature . For anything longer than that , they should be kept in the fridge , particularly if you live somewhere hot/humid . I also vaguely remember an old Israeli habit of eating yellow dates frozen , or after a few minutes out of the freezer .
end question
start question
Grilling burgers : flip once , or keep flipping ?
I 'm solidly in the flip as often as you want camp . As long as it 's not over ( or under ) cooked I find that you get better results flipping often . Plus you can rearrange things to make more room as you flip . To tell how cooked a burger is poke it with a finger or something else that 's not too sharp ; just like a steak the more cooked it is the more firm it will be . You just need to learn how " squishy " you like them . Also , as fun as it is , do n't press the whole burger into the grill ! All that happens is that the delicious juices are forced out .
I have n't really experimented , but if imagining how dry that stuff is and the amount of salt that goes inside one those , I would say in the months/years range . Just keep it in a cool dry place . .
Optimal texture is about optimal heat transfer . When a vegetable releases so much water that it simmers in its own juices instead of pan-roasting , you should increase the heat transfer . To achieve that , you need to 1 ) use high heat , 2 ) not overcrowd the pan , and 3 ) use a pan which is capable of better heating . Cast iron is perfect for these situations , heavy steel pans too . Aluminium is much harder to work with , especially if it 's thin . Also do n't use a nonstick pan , you 'll destroy the coating at the temperatures needed . This technique can be used on its own , or combined with something else , for example oven drying . But note that a zucchini is over 90 % water , so you wo n't be able to simply get it dry enough to resemble a dough noodle .
Stone is a much worse heat conductor than iron . It warms much slower from vigorous pounding than iron , and actually cools whatever is being ground . This is often desirable , as you do n't want to warm whatever you are grinding - some spices contain fats which are viscous or solid at room temperature , but get liquid somewhat above it , so they would be seeping their aroma and converting to a paste if warmed while ground . Another argument for stone will be the smooth surface . Seasoned iron is n't as smooth as marble or granite can be polished , and if left unseasoned , you will need to remove rust from time to time ( another problem of iron which harwig already pointed out ) , disturbing the surface . The mortar surface should be as smooth as possible . Also , the stone will require no maintenance apart from washing . Iron will have to be kept from rusting , so you 'll have to season it . The grinding action will probably slowly eat away the seasoning layer , so you 'll have to reapply it periodically , which is lots of work ( well , the complete stripping first is what makes it lots of work , seasoning not so much ) . But if you use your mortar as seldom as I do , this should n't be a problem . On the other hand , iron 's density is about 3 times higher than marble or granite , resulting in a much heavier pestle . While this means some more fatigue for you , it will result in a better grinding result . Another problem with stone is that it can crack if you happen to drop it on the floor . Luckily , a mortar is not easily dislodged from the counter , and granite breaks nowhere as easily as earthenware , but the chance exists . If you get stone , do n't go for the tulip-on-a-stem shapes . While it may be convenient to grip the stem , it is also a weak point . You must also consider possible chemical reactions . Granite wo n't be a problem , but marble is acid sensitive . So making a pesto with lots of lemon juice is probably a bad idea in marble . It wo n't cause a comic-book like Chinese syndrome , but it will attack the surface , making it less smooth . Seasoned iron has some acid resistance , but strong acids are bad for it too . To me , the " tradition " argument is n't very strong . People have used abacuses for thousands of years , but I prefer a TI-42 simulator when I have to make a calculation too complicated for my brain . Both iron and stone will work . And as harwig says , aesthetics are individual - not that I need much of that in kitchen implements .
I will generally reuse a plank on two conditions : The bottom is n't completely charred . Sometimes , the bottom ends up complete black . I find that this wo n't start to smoke a second time . It 's also a mess to store anywhere . The top is n't a mess of food . This is largely dependent on what you cook . Fish skin sometimes gets cooked on , glaze bubbles and chars , oil lights on fire and the top surface chars . Something like shrimp , tomato , or sausage will be fairly clean though , and nothing will cook on to the top . In order to reuse the plank , I clean it with soap and water , the same way I 'd clean a wooden chopping board . I 've never managed to use a plank more than twice and I usually just toss them after a single use . Keep in mind that a dried cedar plank is a dried cedar plank . Cost is generally more based on the store that you buy it in than the product you 're buying . A hardware super store ( like Home Depot ) will generally have these quite cheap .
Some things that are made almost entirely of almonds ( plus elbow grease ) , and thus will use up a large quantity of almonds : Almond butter ( need to add : nothing . Well , salt , if you like . ) Almond milk ( need to add : water ) And then there are more dessert recipes than you can shake a stick at , but they take increasing amounts of other ingredients , and thus decreasing amounts of almonds . Marzipan ( need to add : sugar , rosewater ) Macarons ( need to add : sugar , eggs , some sort of icing/frosting ) Almond torte ( ditto ) Almond brittle ( need to add : sugar , corn syrup , butter , salt ) Almond pasta [ variation on Hungarian dióstészta ] ( need to add : cooked pasta of your choice [ e.g. broken-up fettuccine or small egg noodles ] , sweetening of your choice [ sugar or honey or even artificial sweeteners will all work ] )
Depends on the apple . Apples with softer skins will bake to a more even consistency , but apples with tough skin ( the ' shiny ' kinds like McIntosh or Red Delicious ) tend to get caught in your teeth and throat , and are generally a pain to eat . If you do make a pie with the skins on , use smaller pieces of apple or slice around the apples to create shorter pieces of peel . These are easier to eat and do n't get caught in your mouth as much .
I can see this as being similar to a sweet potato pie . Best bet in that case would be to cook the carrots , then puree and mix with eggs , milk , etc. just as if it were a sweet potato or pumpkin pie . Two alternatives that come to mind would be to treat it like a fruit pie , as you say . Because of the texture of the carrots , I would grate them with the large holes on a box grater , toss with sugar , raisins , some tapioca and whatever spices your heart leads you toward . An alternative would be to make a molded gelatin like pie , similar to a refrigerator lime pie . Lots of gelatin and grated carrots . I , personally , would n't like it , but I am not fond of jello with carrots in it either . Happy experimenting .
Depends on how many solids and how much water you have in it . If you 've rendered , filtered , and refined it , it should last a few weeks easy . Note : my mother maintained it never EVER went bad , refrigerated or not . Lot of old time southern cooks will say the same , but they all go through it fast .
A <URL> perhaps ? I 've no luck finding the term for your specific description , but that seems to be an umbrella term for utensils that basically hold something so you can more easily grill it .
Bananas ! I grill it as 1 piece with the skin on . When the skin gets dark it is ready .
Italian here :) I know that the oil is a well known trick everywhere ... but Italy . The main problem about pasta is that people just tend to cook it too much . The cooking time for pasta should be between 8 and 12 minutes , above this number it will be sticky . Spaghetti is the quickest kind of pasta to get ready , so just cook it around 8-9 minutes and it wo n't stick .
Flat-leaf ( also called Italian Parsley ) and curly parsley can be used interchangeably but most chefs prefer flat leaf as it usually has a more distinct taste . That is going to be up to you and your preference . Curly parsley provides a more unique and visually interesting look when you 're talking about garnishes but putting a sprig of parsley on a plate is what would be called a " non-functional " garnish . Aside from adding a bit of green it serves no purpose as very few people I know will pop it in their mouth and eat it . You 're better to sprinkle with chopped parsley or herbs that can help enhance/accent the flavor . Curly parsley is also visually appealing used in a parsley salad due again to the ruffled edges . I usually use flat-leaf if available , then curly if flat-leaf is n't available . Under no circumstances ( except if you just need a touch of green dust ) do I recommend using dried parsley . Clippings from the underside of yor lawn-mower probably have more flavor . Same goes for dried chives .
Removing the stem from a tomato opens up a hole where air , moisture , and bacteria can pass through . Keeping the stem in , or somehow sealing the " scar " from the stem , will prolong shelf life . ( Published in Cook 's Illustrated - requires subscription - <URL> )
Your proposed method is possibly dangerous , you 'd be warming it enough for botulism to thrive , but not enough to kill it . When you cook it , cook it properly and all at once . What I 'd suggest is simply cooking it on Friday , then re-heating it saturday , or getting up early enough to cook it through on Saturday . As for when to thaw it if it 's a truly heroic size I 'd thaw it in the fridge starting 48 hours before you want to cook it . As for how long I 'd usually do 20 minutes per pound plus 20 minutes as long as the meat is room temperature to start with , so for 7.5 lbs , so that 's near enough 3 hours as makes little difference . Not that long really , if you wanted to serve at 1pm you 'd want to get it out of the fridge as early in the day as you can , get the oven on at 8:40 on 350F ( 375 F on a conventional oven ) , get the meat in at 9 , roast till 12 , then rest it for an hour . Crank the oven up to max for the last 20 minutes to get the crackling extra crispy .
The ones I always have : White vinegar ( as a condiment , and also for cleaning ) ; Balsamic vinegar ( mainly for salads - let it age ! ) Rice vinegar ( essential to almost all Asian cooking ) ; Red wine vinegar ( essential in French and a lot of Italian cooking ) ; Cider vinegar ( the best deglazer , and great in chilis )
Wheat gluten . Buy some powdered wheat gluten at a health food store . Add it to the mix , add some water if necessary , and stir it around in the same direction for 30 to 50 strokes . The gluten will bond and start forming long chains , and bring the whole mixture together . Nothing else really works as well . Eggs and cheese will also help hold a veggie burger together , but only gluten really gives it cohesiveness and a springy texture . FWIW , I ca n't imagine that veggie burgers made from juicer pulp will be even remotely appetizing .
Unfortunately you 're fighting bread-physics ... Bread with a high crust : crumb ratio become stale faster than those with low crust : crumb ratios like large boules or miches . Their large surface area allows moisture to evaporate quickly and the starches dry up and harden . This is why thin breads like baguettes are traditionally " daily " breads , i.e. made/purchased to be consumed that day . Soft pretzels have an even higher crust : crumb ratio than baguettes . Breads with extremely high crust : crumb ratios like hard pretzels , crackers , and hardtack are usually cooked to the point of being dry to prolong their storage capacity . These bread actually " stale " in the opposite direction by becoming more moist . There are a couple of things you could try that might help a little . It might take a lot of experimenting to get something that helps , and you will likely still need to reheat the pretzels just prior to serving them to have the soft texture you 're looking for . Without re-baking or light toasting there really is n't a way to bring back the original crust texture . Use pre-ferments to increase the concentration of a-amylase in your pretzels . Using a prolonged autolyse and/or sourdough starter can increase the amount of a-amylase in your bread which has been <URL> to slow staling . Incorporate conditioning ingredients like fat , sugar , malt , or honey into your dough . All of these slow staling . Try baking the pretzels at a lower temperature . The article linked above also mentioned that higher temperature baking leads to faster staling . For storage , your best option is probably to allow them to cool completely ( 15-30 minutes ) then place them in a sealed container at room temperature . Placing them in a sealed container before they are cool fills the container with humidity , which then coalesces and makes the crust soggy .
In general the FDA recommends that you consume leftovers within 3-5 days ( See their website for specific foods ) . In this case , I do n't think the garlic is what 's holding you back . While garlic and herb infused oils do present some botulism risk , I think what they are getting at is the can of preserved garlic you 've had in the fridge for 9 months .
The best thing I 've figured out about turning eggs is : do not do it too early . You need to wait for the cooked part of the egg to develop a strong texture before it will support its own weight . It 's very difficult to turn a floppy , soft egg , where it 's comparatively easy to flip an egg that has been cooked more completely on one side . I also use a relatively high heat , as this " crisps " the cooked surface . It also makes the egg more attractive . The spatula you use can make a difference , also , though I believe this is minor . The spatula you want is a plastic one with a relatively thin , flexible blade . The really heavy spatulas tend to be too tall , in my experience , and push the egg rather than sneak under it .
end question
start question
How to get uniform slices from bread ?
Try using a bow style bread knife . It works well because it allows you to put pressure on the opposite side of the loaf . Also , the bow helps you visually line up the slice .
In short , the answer is no , it is NOT safe . <URL> It 's tempting to lop off the fuzzy patch , but the mold could have spread already . " Once you 're able to see mold on bread , it means there 's quite a lot of mold , " said Nelken , a food consultant in Woodland Hills , California . " It 's indicative that there 's mold on other slices , just not at the level you can see it . Why jeopardize your health on a slice of bread ? " Nelken likened mold to jellyfish . " Even though you scrape off the head of the jellyfish , the tentacles are still in the food product . " Eating moldy bread could cause an upset stomach . Although most molds are innocuous , it 's probably not going to taste good , food experts said . The U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service recommends discarding moldy bread and baked goods , because of their porous texture .
The method we use ( for coffee ) is pretty simple ( though it requires some compatible equipment ) : Fill kettle . Shove probe thermometer through " whistle " hole in kettle spout . Heat until desired temperature is reached . Pour water into vessel . If you do n't have a kettle or your thermometer wo n't work , you can do the same thing with any pot and a thermometer that has a clip ( so you do n't have to hold it for 10 minutes while the water heats ) ... but be sure the thermometer is heat safe ( candy thermometers are good for this if they have a high enough temp range ) . You 'll want to keep a couple of things in mind ... The temperature of your mug will cool the water when it makes contact . This is unlikely to make a huge difference but it 's something to think about . If you really want to brew your tea at exactly 70 C , consider heating sufficient water to " warm " your cup ( or teapot ) by filling it part way and swishing the water around to heat up the cup first and then pour the water down the drain . Alternately , you can heat your water to a slightly higher temperature ( 72 C ) . As to your other methods ... I 'm sure any of them would work just fine ... they 'd take longer , though , because you 're waiting for something to boil and then you 're waiting for it to cool off or you 're futzing around with getting it back down to the " right " temperature by adding cool water or tossing it back and forth between cups . Provided you have standard , municipal water that you 're comfortable drinking from the tap ( or filtered ) , I do n't know why boiling it first would matter . I 'm also skeptical about the pickiness of tea being steeped at exactly 70 C. I have a feeling that there 'd be little discernible difference ( to the average consumer ) were the water at 80 C or even 90 C. . . It 'd be an interesting thing to test , I suppose . As this relates to oxygen loss due to boiling , which has been mentioned in some of the answers . <URL> actually discusses that already and the general consensus is that lower oxygen levels in the water is actually bad for the taste of the tea : Dissolved oxygen is reactive , and will most likely extract more substances from the tea leaf , than without it . If these are the good flavour parts of tea , I do not know ? And : <URL> that increased oxygen in the water resulted in milder , less tannic tea . So , it sounds as if not bringing your water to a full boil is actually preferable to the flavor of the tea ( assuming you do n't like the tannic flavors ) because the oxygen is beneficial to the brewing process .
I do n't know your exact prep but the best thing you could do is bring your dough to a completely thawed state , store bought will work fine . Make sure you beef is at room temperature before doing a quick sear , this will not only add flavor but will give you a layer of protection . Another problem that can occur is the puff pastry releases some steam and it needs some way to escape . After you have wrapped your piece of meat , take a knife and make small slits in it with the tip of a sharp knife . This will help release the steam and should take away the moisture . 425 degrees would be a good temperature to cook at and you should hit your ideal around 40 to 45 minutes . Hope this helps and let me know how to it turns out .
Most likely you just need to turn up the heat a bit . Moving the rack higher might help too . It 's a little hard to say without actually measuring your oven , but that kind of thing can happen if your oven 's just a bit cooler than it claims to be . So it 'll take a little longer than the recipe says to bake , but the lower temperature means it wo n't brown as nicely . Turning up the heat will get more browning done by the time the center 's done .
How to remove old seasoning and start over from scratch ? Very few cases actually require a full stripping of cast iron and restarting your seasoning from scratch . If you ruined your seasoning somehow , it can usually just be fixed by scrubbing and baking on a fresh layer of oil or two . However here are a few real reasons : 1 ) The pan is new , and you do n't trust the manufacturer 's pre-seasoning for whatever reason , is it really food grade , is it clean is it toxic , is it ... whatever ... 2 ) you got your cast iron from an antique store or other source where the seasoning is just unknown or otherwise not trustworthy ( IOW , is that black paint ? ) , same as # 1 , just not a brand new pan . 3 ) you are a purist and want to manage every layer of the seasoning from how the iron is treated prior to being coated with oil , or which choice of oil and how many coats to season with before the pan goes into production . To begin , first you really want to scrub the heck out of your pan to break off loose dirt , burned food and anything that will just come free with a scotch brite . The next step does the real cleaning , but scrubbing off whatever you can first will reduce the amount of smell and smoke . if you have a number of pans you want to strip , it might be best to have a few of them ready to go at once to save your time . This is a time consuming process . After you have scrubbed your pans clean , put them in your oven , and run the the oven through a clean cycel . At minimum thise should be two hours , but many ovens let you run it 2 , 4 , 6 or 8 hours . Depending on how hot your own gets during cleaning , 2 hours may not be enough , I personally run a 4 or 6 hour cleaning cycle . Do NOT leave your home during an oven cleaning cycle . The temperature of your oven will exceed 800 Degreed F . These temps are more than twice as hot as ordinary cooking temps , and you should never leave your house with the oven on anyway , but the cleaning cycle should absolutely never be left unattended . The heat will burn everything off of your pan , once the oven has had a chance to cool off and you are able to look inside you will see your cast iron has turned a much brighter but dull grey . This is the natural color of iron when it is bare . As the iron cools , it will start to turn orange . That is caused from the iron oxidizing a fine layer of rust on it 's surface , a process that is accelerated by the iron being so hot and exposed to cool air as it cools . Once the pan is cool enough to pick up with your base hands , we are going to return to the sink , and we are going to scrub the rust away with a new clean scotch brite pad . Turn the oven on and set to 385 degrees F. Becareful , in contrast to seasoned cast iron , bare cast iron is VERY abrasive , and you can skin your knuckles if you are n't careful . Rinse it very well again , toss back into the oven and let the heat drive away the moisture . This time , because you are n't leaving the pan in their to get to full heat , it wo n't reoxidize so quickly . While it 's hot , grab a clean unused dishtowel fresh from your laundry stack , and pickup the pan and put on your stove . Pour about a tablespoon or two of your favorite seasoning oil or fat . Despite what the science says , it doesn ; t matter so much which one you choose . This is not because there is no difference . There IS a big difference , but from a practical standpoint , unless you are super super careful , you are going to ruin your seasoning from time to time and will have to fix it . So going with the super expensive flax seed oil really does n't make any difference from a practicality point of view . I prefer Peanut Oil . It has a high smoke point , which means I can bake it on longer/hotter , making it more durable than other lower smoke point oils . Flaxseed oil is actually the most durable during the way the polymers develop along with the smoking , but again it does n't matter for practical purposes because you will ruin it now and again . So I use a durable high smoke point oil that 's cheaper . Peanut Oil . With a paper towel folded over a few times until it 's 2 inches x 2 inches , start smoothing that oil all around the inside of the pan . Once the paper towel has taken up all the oil and spread it around the inside , flip the pan over and coat the entire outside of the pan . Take special care to get oil into all the cracks , and dimples , and rings , and especially inside the eye of the handle . Get under and inside the front guard that lets you stack your pans . You want to make sure there is not one tiny iota of the pan left dry . Do n't worry if the paper towel starts to break apart and leave lint behind . It makes no difference whatsoever . Done ? Good . Now grab a fresh dry paper towel and remove all the oil , make it so the metal looks dry . If you touch it and you can feel the oil , then it 's too much . Get it all off . Once that 's done , place a large cookie sheet on the bottom rack of your oven to catch drips ... do not use aluminum foil as is often recommended , you 'll regret that decision
I think you will get the ' best result ' out of ' par baking ' your rolls . I have done this myself , though not for shipping . It is simply easier to make a large batch and then store them for use as needed . IMHO rolls are best served hot and fresh , and while re-heating fully baked rolls can recapture some of the glory that is fresh baked bread , allowing your customers to finish bake a partially baked product will give them the convenience of truly fresh rolls on demand . The technique ( and recipe , for my part ) I picked up from Alton Brown , in the episode of Good Eats : <URL> . Alton 's recipe for <URL> includes a par baking option : For Brown and Serve option : Assemble rolls as above , but bake as follows . Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Bake until the outside of the rolls just begin to set but have not browned and the internal temperature is 185 degrees , about 30 minutes . Remove and cool on the pan for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes , remove the rolls from the pan and place on a cooling rack until they are room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Place the rolls in bags and freeze for up to 3 months . To Finish : Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Thaw the rolls for 60 to 90 minutes . Spray a sheet pan with nonstick spray . Place the rolls on the prepared sheet pan and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F. Rotate the pan halfway through baking , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the pan to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . The key ' take-aways ' that you will want to apply are : Bake to internal temp of 185 ° F Cool to Room Temp Freeze for up to 3 months
According to <URL> and confirmed by several others I found on the internet , the Humboldt Squid produces ammonia chloride as a defense mechanism , or as a side effect of asphixiation , or maybe both . I could n't find terribly reliable advice on how to avoid the contamination , but two points were repeatedly suggested on various bulletin boards : When you catch the humboldt squid , cut its head off , clean and ice it immediately ( on the boat ) . when cleaning it , be careful not to puncture the swim bladder . The other suggestion repeatedly offered was to catch some other kind of squid . Hope that helps . For more 3rd-hand advice , search the internet for " squid ammonia flavor " and you 'll see lots of bulletin boards and similar sources .
I spoke with the farm that sold me the kohlrabi ; they have seen people make something akin to mashed rutabaga by boiling kohlrabi for ages and ages , so it gets about that soft . Note that mashed rutabaga is apparently still firmer than mashed potatoes , but obviously soft enough to mash into a pulp . For a stir-fry , they suggested a match-stick shape rather than medallions ; my second such stir-fry found them to have about the texture of halfway-cooked onions , soft enough not to crunch anymore but firm enough to hold their shape on a fork .
That 's a really good question . I imagine it was probably stabilized with something that stays solid at high heat , b/c hot cheesecake would be fairly soft . Was it warm all the way through ? My wild guess would be they rewarmed it in the oven , then ( if needed ) blasted with a blowtorch for crispiness .
In baking , doubling sometimes is accurate , sometimes not . Yeah , that is a non-answer , but is true . It is not unsafe to double , or halve , but sometimes results will vary . You hit a point which could cause a slight issue , even distribution . Changing volume of a recipe with an ingredient which is distributed over the surface might affect the distribution ratio , though in this case I think it would likely be minor . Other issues can arise in doubling would be if the dough needs to breath . Thermal reactions can often affect results when doubling or halving recipes as well . The cooking time adjustments are often obvious , but cooling can be less obvious but disastrous at times , and any resting times needed may be skewed . All of that said , with allowing for baking time , and a little experimentation , most recipes can be safely doubled or halved , but tend to start breaking down beyond that , going for tripled , 4 times , etc tends to get progressively poor results without a lot of trial and error . It is certainly worth a try though . And alternate or fallback if you do not like the results of doubling is to make two separate batches , which you know will be correct .
One of the best ways I 've found to remove ants from the bread is to put it into the oven at a light temperature . Out of the frying pan and into the fire .
You need to warm them up a bit . There are a number of ways to do this 20 or 30 seconds on a griddle ( or a <URL> if you have one ) wrap a stack in foil and place in 325 oven for until warm wrap a stack in a clean towel and steam them using a steamer slightly moisten a towel and wrap it around a stack and microwave them for a bit If you 've warmed them and they are still tearing then your tortillas are no longer fresh .
Gluten is a protein that gives bread elasticity . Water makes gluten spirals relax , and kneading helps stretch the gluten and connect with other gluten strands . Bread that lacks stretchiness : may not have enough gluten to start with . If you are using a low gluten flour then you wo n't get and elasticity . In general any plain white flour will have enough , but for best results use bread flour , also known as strong flour may be too dry . Gluten needs water to relax and stretch , if your dough is too dry , or " tight " , then you wo n't get good elasticity may have not been worked enough or worked in the wrong way . Kneading mechanically stretches gluten , if it is n't kneaded enough , or the technique is n't right , then no elasticity may not have been risen enough . Yeast actually improves the dough , it really works on the gluten . Rise is n't just about leavening , it makes a big difference in elasticity . You should notice a big difference if it 's been risen enough If I had to put money on it I 'd say it 's probably your dough being too dry . This is an easy mistake to make , you turn your dough out on the counter and it 's really gooey , must not have enough flour right ? But as gluten get worked it uses up some of the extra moisture , so adding too much flour at the beginning will rob the gluten of the water it needs to relax . Kneading with oil instead of flour may help there . As an aside , I generally add a couple of tablespoons of olive oil to my pizza dough to improve flavor and texture although that 's totally optional . Also , you did n't list salt as an ingredient , bread needs some salt , many bakers recommend 10g per 500g of flour , although I usually cut that down some .
Professional bakers use straight razors . Chances are they are sharper than your knife , and easier to keep that way ( or cheaper to replace , at least ) . Also : wet the blade before making slashes . This helps lubricate the blade as it cuts , and keeps the cut bread from sticking .
Moisten your hands with a clean , damp towel . This helps the rice not stick . Look at any sushi bar ; the chef will be frequently moistening their hands on such a towel .
The key is to have the finest possible salt . One way to do this is to take any salt you like , and grind it fine in a mortar and pestle . This just takes a few seconds , and then you can customize to a particular sea salt you enjoy and avoid the need to buy a special popcorn salt . A rotating action in the mortar and pestle ( as opposed to pounding ) is most efficient for grinding salt .
Draining the juice , refilling the jar with oil and then storing to reduce the acidity wo n't work because : Acid and lye can be diluted only with water or liquids like water ( if I remember correctly , ethanol will also work ) but not oil . You might run into the risk of botulism . ( Maybe not since the mushrooms are sour . If you do n't measure the pH you ca n't be sure ) . The only thing you can do is to soak the portion of mushrooms you intend to eat in water before eating . Replacing the brine with water of the whole jar beforehand to lower the pH will shorten the shelf life significantly .
Baking soda seems to work well for me , but the best thing is to get rid of old food that is causing the smell , and seal strong-smelling foods in airtight containers .
You can use Crisco All-Vegetable Shortening : its is on PETA 's ( People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ) shopping list of baking goods , but can work just as well for frying as lard .
end question
start question
Is it safe to use non stick cookware over a flame ?
Are you using non-stick cookware ? Beware because there is a well-documented medical effect caused by the fumes released when various non-stick components are heated starting at about 300 ° F ( 149 ° C ) and beyond . <URL> You should always have something in a non-stick pan when it is over a flame .
According to <URL> article , game birds including pheasant should be cooked to an internal temperature as follows : Whole 82 ° C ( 180 ° F ) Breasts and roasts 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Thighs , wings 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Stuffing ( cooked alone or in bird ) 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) These temperatures will be decidedly not pink ( except possibly around the bones ) , but will maximize the safety of eating game .
<URL> ( Food and Drugs ) of the Code of Federal Regulation states " ( d ) When foods characterized on the label as " nondairy " contain a caseinate ingredient , the caseinate ingredient shall be followed by a parenthetical statement identifying its source . For example , if the manufacturer uses the term " nondairy " on a creamer that contains sodium caseinate , it shall include a parenthetical term such as " a milk derivative " after the listing of sodium caseinate in the ingredient list " According to <URL> on the University of Nebraska-Lincoln 's website , the term " non-dairy " is actually a by-product of the dairy lobby 's efforts to make sure that substitute milk and cream products could not use the term dairy rather than the FDA trying to specify that something did n't contain any dairy .
I 'd suggest <URL> as a starting point . They specifically investigated the food safety of chicken in 2010 and found that ( among other things ) : Campylobacter was in 62 percent of the chickens , salmonella was in 14 percent , and both bacteria were in 9 percent . Only 34 percent of the birds were clear of both pathogens . That 's double the percentage of clean birds we found in our 2007 report but far less than the 51 percent in our 2003 report . Store-brand organic chickens had no salmonella at all , showing that it 's possible for chicken to arrive in stores without that bacterium riding along . But as our tests showed , banishing one bug does n't mean banishing both : 57 percent of those birds harbored campylobacter . Among all brands and types of broilers tested , 68 percent of the salmonella and 60 percent of the campylobacter organisms we analyzed showed resistance to one or more antibiotics . The same issue seems to come up over and over again in food safety questions , and I really ca n't stress this enough : Salmonella is not the only dangerous bacteria in food . <URL> is just <URL> and produces heat-resistant enterotoxins that simply put , can make you very , very sick . Perfringens is also common , and <URL> . I 've seen a number of articles and blogs claiming that people " worry too much " and most of them cite Ippuku in SF , which generated quite a stir by serving chicken tartare . It 's legal in many countries for a restaurant to serve raw or undercooked food , provided that there is informed consent ( the customer is specifically informed or specifically orders that their food be undercooked ) . However , legal is a very long way from safe , especially when we 're talking about raw meat . Steak tartare is more acceptable because , for some reason , <URL> and the incidence of E.coli is <URL> at only 0.26 % . Raw beef is n't totally safe but most healthy people who eat it will not have complications afterward . So , to summarize : Raw chicken : ~ 20 % salmonella ( depending on source ) , ~ 60 % campylobacter ( any source ) Raw beef : Less than 0.1 % e.coli , ~ 2 % campylobacter ( any source ) Conclusion : If you eat raw beef ( steak tartare ) , you 're a risk-taker . If you eat raw chicken , you have a death wish . Just say no . At an absolute minimum , please do n't serve this to your dinner guests with assurances that it will be safe . What you do to your own body is your decision to make , but it would be grossly irresponsible to serve anything made with raw chicken to anyone who has n't been made fully aware of the risks . P.S. . Some of this data may be U.S. specific , but the problem is worldwide . For example : A <URL> showed a 36.7 % contamination rate for salmonella and 84.3 % for campylobacter , ( thanks TFD ! ) . A <URL> showed a 37.5 % incidence rate for salmonella and 75 % for campylobacter . So do n't expect to be safer simply because you do n't live in the U.S. . If you 're planning on doing this , you should check what your country 's regulations and current statistics are regarding salmonella , campylobacter , C. perfringens , and listeria , for farms and plants producing chicken meat . That is your actual risk . Buying " organic " might help , or might not , since organic is currently not a true legal or regulatory category in most regions .
The big thing that you you are going to see cooking in regular pans vs. non-stick is the addition of pan sauces to your table . It is almost impossible to get a pan sauce out of the non-sticks because they prevent the formation of fond in the pan . As for stick in a regular pan , it is not much of a concern for most items , but there are a few things that non-stick are invaluable for so I generally keep a cheap non-stick around for those . ( Talking cepes and eggs , mostly ) The biggest trick with regular pans is learning to stop messing with your food while it cooks . You want to let it form that crust which as a by-product will help prevent sticking . Also , you will find that you start at a higher tempature when cooking with regular pans .
There is an excellent answer to this question on the Physics SE : <URL> I will summarise what I think is the most cogent part here . This does work up to a point . The bubbles formed by boiling water are filled with steam , so if anything colder than the steam ( ie < 100 ° C ) touches a bubble the steam will immediately condense and the bubble will collapse . Therefore provided the surface of your spoon is cold , it will help to prevent boiling over . If it 's a long boil and the spoon heats up to 100 ° C it will no longer work . This is why a wooden spoon is recommended : metal would heat up too quickly .
If it 's pure silver , it 's fine . Silver is n't toxic . Well ... if you get some colloidial silver , and you dose yourself with it every day , you 'll have some disturbing symptoms . The same is true of almost all metals . Iron pills , for example , are worse , but we commonly cook with cast iron . Metallic silver is sometimes used as a chelating agent , so it can purge your body of other metals you may have absorbed . If its heirloom electroplated silver , it 's probably still fine . If it 's heirloom pewter , coated in copper , then electroplated with silver , its still fine ( because pewter does n't tarnish , so the tarnish is either silver or copper ) but I would n't eat anything acidic with it , because it 'll leech lead into your food . Note : There is no way you have pewter . That was a joke .
Non-stick pans have a coating on top of metal , this metal could be aluminum , stainless steel , copper , or any other metal or alloy . The coating does n't make a whole lot of difference to the heat distribution , that is the property of the metal underneath it . Heat distribution does n't change the end quality of your food , it determines how quickly heat spreads through the metal of the pan . What determines the quality of your end result is your technique in using the combined properties of your heat source and your equipment to cook food well . You can make great food with the most basic of equipment if you know how . The type of range you have should have a big influence on your pan choice . I cook on gas which produces a nice , steady heat which I can control very finely , I prefer using a set of inexpensive non-stick aluminum pans as they are light and heat up quickly . I can keep the pan at a steady heat by adjusting the flow of gas . If I ( god forbid ) had an electric stove I would opt for stainless steel or cast-iron instead because these materials even out the fluctuations in heat from the on-again-off-again nature of electric heating elements .
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
It was safe to keep the rump , so why would n't it be safe to keep the slices of the rump ? The only way that , according to USDA suggestion , it would n't be safe is if , in your preparation , you 'd left the raw meat out of refrigeration for longer than two hours . These guidelines are generally conservative , but bacteria can grow quite quickly in meat above 40 ˚ F ( 4.5 ˚ C ) , and even more quickly above 70 ˚ ( 21 ˚C ) . Meat that will be served raw should be kept as cold as possible -- chilling your equipment before preparation is often a good idea . The issue , to my mind , is that it sounds like you 've already applied lemon juice . Being acidic , that juice will denature the proteins in the meat , changing its texture -- making it " mushy " . ( This is why marinades often contain acid ; up to a point , this action is perceived as tenderizing . ) There 's also likely to be some unpleasant-looking and - tasting , oxidation -- and/or maybe dehydration -- of the thin pieces of meat while they sit in the fridge . This is n't unsafe , but it does decrease the appeal of the beautiful rosy-red raw beef you 're supposed to have . Rubbing on some oil may help with this problem , as might plastic wrap directly on the surface . I 'd recommend preparing the meat as close to service as possible and dressing it , at least with the lemon and cheese , at the absolute last moment .
Having just returned from Hawaii , I actually have a possible answer for you . There is a type of ginger that you can get there ( though it 's not all that common , far as I could tell ) that 's called blue ginger . It 's just like regular ginger , only it has the blue layer inside as you describe . There was a guy selling it at a roadside fruit stand when we were there . It should be absolutely safe to use . edit : I found a link to somebody talking about it . <URL>
The existence of gas in a vacuum-sealed environment could be a sign of microbial activity . I would assume that , since the package appears to be sealed , that the gases in it were introduced from within . I would toss that one and feel OK using the other two .
Two problems : Hot or warm food will briefly warm up the air and therefore to some degree the food already in fridge , especially items immediately near it . Cycling temperatures does not help fresh food quality or life . Modern fan forced fridges may suffer this problem less . It is very power inefficient to do this . Just let it cool on the bench until it reaches a cooler temperature and then place it in the refrigerator . Use any of the well-documented and appropriate techniques to cool food quickly and safely if it is going to longer than 2 hours to cool .
According to ( US ) <URL> : ( c ) In accordance with § 184.1 ( b ) ( 1 ) , the ingredient is used in food with no limitations other than current good manufacturing practice . ( d ) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived . Basically , you can eat the stuff by the spoon-full if you can stand the sour . If you 're adding a lot compared to how much you think you should have to add , you might consider Phosphoric acid instead . You get a little <URL> with that , and it too , within limits , is generally regarded as safe ( GRAS ) .
I would say you could use it once , and probably just to make refrigerator-type , quick pickles . The problem is that you have no way to determine acidity or salt levels once you remove the previously pickled items . Of course it should look clean and clear . If you were previously doing a lactic acid fermented pickle , some of the liquid could be used to jump start your next ferment .
Cincinnati Chili often has cardamom , along with cinnamon and cocoa . Cardamom is used in savory and sweet foods all over the world , not just in India . If you have reason to want to try this particular recipe , then try the recipe as written . There are thousands of beloved recipes for all kinds of chili . There is no reason to say , " That one looks good , I 'll do it just like that but omit a certain ingredient 'cause it makes me nervous . " Your friend 's advice is a bit odd to me because Garam Masala usually contains cardamom ( sometimes black , green and brown ) My advice is to either try the recipe as written , or find another with which you 're more comfortable . Or come up with your own . There are no hard and fast rules when it comes to chili . BTW , I love cardamom in savory . I make a Vietnamese Beef Noodle Soup ( Pho ) that I crave if I have n't had it for a while . It would n't be right without cardamom .
It sounds like it 's fermented , and more harmful bacteria or mold could definitely have grown without being visible . So it 's not safe , in that there 's definitely some risk . It 's hard to evaluate exactly how risky it is . It sounds like you 're already routinely taking risks by eating iffy food that 's not obviously rotten or moldy , so you certainly could choose to take that risk here . I 'd really advise against it , though . Remember , food poisoning is n't just about stomachaches . If you end up in the hospital , it 's going to cost you a lot more than a replacement jar of applesauce . As a side note , applesauce generally requires refrigeration . The jar you have almost certainly says " refrigerate after opening . " So it may not be a good choice for an egg substitute . You might want to look into actually shelf-stable substitutes . If applesauce is working for you , <URL> ( or chia ) or mashed banana might be good options . Flax and chia are totally shelf-stable , and while bananas do n't last forever you can at least buy them as you need them .
Yes , those spots are normal , they form as the nattou ages . They are amino acid crystals , and they are perfectly safe . Here 's a picture . They 're a bit crunchy , which you may or may not like . If you do n't like the dots , get young nattou and consume it before the crystals form . If you do like them , get more mature nattou . With younger nattou , you should be able to store it opened in the fridge for a few days before the crystals start to form . As you have experienced though , once they start , they grow quickly .
Are you using non-stick cookware ? Beware because there is a well-documented medical effect caused by the fumes released when various non-stick components are heated starting at about 300 ° F ( 149 ° C ) and beyond . <URL> You should always have something in a non-stick pan when it is over a flame .
Assuming it 's a proper removable ( some old ones were n't ) inner crock pot you could ( as in your other answer ) . BUT That pot will take a long time to warm up when you put it in and turn it on . I would suggest assembling all the ingredients in another container ( which may also fit better in the fridge ) and turning them out in to the ( ideally preheated ) crock pot in the morning . Otherwise you will probably need to add some time even on top of the extra time for starting all ingredients at fridge temperature . This is roughly what the manual for our previous slow cooker recommended . Our new one is a non-stick steel inner pot ( for easy browning ) and will warm up much faster - there 's no recommendation to preheat this model .
end question
start question
Sponge cake - Why mix milk and butter instead of folding ?
I ca n't say why you 'd want to do this in general for other types of sponge cakes . But in the linked recipe it 's very clear . The reason is because the milk/butter mixture is heated " to just under a boil " and according to the instructions should still be at least " hot ( about 150F ) " when added . In this case , you take out a small portion of the batter , then add this hot liquid mixture to it . If you do n't mix rapidly while doing so and if the temperature is a little off and too hot , you run the risk of coagulating the eggs in the batter ( which would obviously not result in a desirable texture to add back into the rest of the batter ) . Here , as the recipe notes , you 're using this portion of the batter as a liaison , which is a fancy word for a mixture the serves as an intermediary temperature between something hot and something cooler . By adding the hot milk/butter mixture to a small portion of the batter ( rather than the whole batter ) , you cool it enough so that it wo n't risk coagulating eggs in the whole batter . But in the process , you need to whisk rapidly to avoid small egg bits forming curds and becoming solid , so you 're sacrificing some of the bubbles in this portion of the batter to create an appropriate intermediary temperature mixture , which then is presumably supposed to be gently folded back into the rest of the batter . Now , the question is why you 're heating the milk in the first place . There is a whole genre of cakes called " hot milk cakes " or " hot milk sponge cakes , " which seem to have originated in the early 20th century . They use this rather unusual mixing method , where you beat the sugar and eggs for a long time first , then add flour and dry ingredients , and then add liquid and fat at the end . I 'd speculate that the hot milk serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it helps melt the butter , which both allows the liquid butter to combine easier with the existing mixture and causes it to coat the flour better which results in a tender crumb ( less gluten network formation ) , and ( 2 ) it raises the temperature of the batter above room temperature , thus shortening the time before the cake structure starts to solidify while baking . My guess is that this is helpful because the sugar/egg foam is less stable than , say , a sugar/butter " creamed " foam ( as in a pound cake ) , and if you do n't get the eggs to coagulate fast enough , the whole thing might collapse . ( Again , that last part is just a guess . ) The goal is to end up with a very light and tender cake .
My answer would be to add more cake flour if you have it , but AP flour will do it too , then add an additional teaspoon of baking soda . The flour will lighten the mix so it 's not so dense chocolate/cocoa , and the additional baking soda will help it rise more than a brownie . An additional egg wo n't hurt , and it will certainly help the stickier of the cake , but I do n't know if it 's necessary .
In examining sponge cake recipes , I 've noticed that some call for adding the melted butter with the flour . Some call for adding it afterwards . The important thing is to fold in that butter in a way that preserves the network of bubbles that was created while whipping your eggs ( unsure if your recipe called for whipping whole eggs with sugar or yolks with sugar and egg whites separately , but both will be creating a bubble structure integral to letting your cake rise ) . <URL> mentions that folding in flour helps to preserve that network ( as long as you do n't overhandle ) . If you over handle while folding - and you may have tipped it over the line when adding butter - you will destroy that bubble network and your cake wo n't rise as you 'd like . It 's also possible to under-handle , which will result in only a thin layer of sponge on top with a thick buttery cake underneath .
I do n't think it is close to either cous-cous or rice . It is less starchy than both . Also , it has a unique mouthfeel when you chew on it , because the tiny grains ( 1 mm or less ) pop under your teeth . I would try getting the real thing in a whole food store or an organic store , or also online . If you ca n't find it , in these stores , but can get other exotic grains , you can try quinoa or millet . If you really ca n't get anything uncommon , I would use durum semolina . Wash it before cooking and cook it with fat to reduce the starch . Also , I would maybe cook it in more water than needed and remove excess water after it has been cooked and cooled , so your semolina grains do n't form a creamy pudding . Maybe tapioca pearls of the extra-small variety can work too , I am not sure because I have n't tried using them and do n't know what their final texture is . You will notice that , when suggesting replacements , I am most worried about texture . The reason is that the flavor of amaranth is very faint and bland . It is best used as a base for other , strong flavors . So you can use anything with the right texture , the flavor in the dish should come from spices and other components .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
Making a cake before around 1910 always required at least an hour of work beating sugar into butter : this incorporated air bubbles into the mixture . But since then , there have been a number of remarkable changes to the process . The first was the arrival of modern cake shortening , which has smaller fat crystals that trap small air bubbles , which stay in the batter . They also have a much wider temperature range at which it has the right solidity , and these days manufacturers fill shortening with preformed bubbles of nitrogen ( around 10 % of the volume ) and up to 3 % of the shortening weight is replaced by bubble-stabilizing emulsifiers . The second major innovation was the arrival of cake flour : a soft flour low in gluten that is very finely milled ; in the US it is strongly bleached with chlorine , which also lightens the end result by various means , but the EU and UK disallow the bleaching step , so manufacturers there use different processes such as heat treatment . These two improvements , together of course with mechanical mixers , have lead to not only less work when making cakes but also lighter , more fluffy end results , and the ability to use more sugar without the batter becoming to heavy . Finally , because the mixing process fills the batter with bubbles , cake recipes typically either for no chemical leavening or for less than other batter recipes do . ( All of this information is extracted from pages 555-557 of the excellent On Food and Cooking by Harold McGee . ) So the answer to your question seems to be : mass-produced cake mixes use the incredible advances in food technology of the twentieth century in general , not so much chemical leavening specifically .
No , it is not a good idea at all . It will be worse , not better . What you are missing here is that cocoa powder does not dissolve at all , never , it just disperses in water ( or milk ) . So there is no reason why methods for dissolving stuff would work with cocoa powder . You will need to use a method created for colloid-producing powders like cocoa powder , which is mostly starch with fat . This is why the answers to the other question recommend the slurry method . When you are dispersing an absorptive powder like starch , you always run a risk of clumping , and the slurry is designed to work around that problem . But starch also thickens much more under heat , so if you were to not just forego the slurry , but simply drop the cocoa powder into hot water , this would be the worst choice possible , leading to instant unbreakable clumps . The slurry method would n't work with hot water either , you 'll get clumps before you have created the slurry . So , the short answer is : if you try it , it wo n't " dissolve automatically " , it will produce an ugly undrinkable mixture of clumps .
Basically , when recipies call for softened butter , they use the creaming method ; the sugar and butter are mixed together in such a way that the sugar cuts little air bubbles into the butter . These little bubbles can add some extra puff to the cookies . If you melt the butter first , not only do you not have those air bubbles , but there 's water in butter , so you 'll end up getting some gluten development when you mix in the flour and make a chewy cookie ... but more importatly , without the fat being ( near ) solid , the cookie will slump a lot more , and spread out before it cooks ( assuming you have n't otherwise adjusted the recipe to compensate ) . There are cookie recipes that call for melted butter ; <URL> ; the " chewy " cookie uses melted butter .
<URL> has a nice description of Devil 's Food Cake . Originally , Devil 's Food Cake had a medium dense texture . The colour had a reddish tint that was probably caused by baking soda reacting with cocoa powder . In fact , I have an old cookbook ( The Day by Day Cook Book , 1939 ) that contains a recipe for Red Devil 's Food Cake . This recipe calls for 2 oz . unsweetened chocolate and 1 tsp . of baking soda .
You need to 1 ) increase the emulsification , and 2 ) reduce the amount of time the sauce is very hot . You can try adding honey or mustard to the sauce , that will improve emulsification . You can also hit it with a stick blender which will do a much better job of breaking it up than can be done by hand . Also it may look ok after a few hours but who knows how much separation is starting to happen at a very small scale and will accelerate when it hits heat . Add the sauce at the last possible moment before plating . It is n't going to benefit from cooking , and it is n't going to marinade into the cooked food , so do n't have it in any longer than it takes for it to warm up . 20 seconds is probably all it will take .
It means the butter is made from cream that has n't been fermented . Butter made from fermented cream is known as " cultured cream butter " , and it has distinct sour , lactic acid notes . Sweet cream butter tastes , well , sweet , and if it is from really good fresh milk you may be able to taste grassy notes . Both are good in their own way .
I have seen recipes that call for chopped white onions instead of pearl onions , which leads me to believe it is feasible . The texture might be different ; when cooked , pearl onions tend to have a different sort of bite to them , much like a grape , revealing a burst of flavor after a slight resistance , whereas chopped fullsize onions tend to be more one-note and soft . I do n't know for sure what pickling does to the texture , but if it is beneficial to use whole onions for a similar effect , you 'll lose that . I suspect the flavor penetration would be greater , however , due to the cutting .
Those are the flavorings . Just like dill pickles have dill in them , those are what give the flavor profile that people expect from bread &amp; butter pickles .
Melting them together makes the chocolate less sticky and therefore less likely to stick to your melting pot . Probably would n't cause any other problems if you did them separately ; there is no chemical reaction between the chocolate and the butter . Either way its convenient to melt them together so that you can do it all at once and save time .
Yes , you do n't have the edge of a pan in the way when going to flip things , but it also means that you do n't have a mass of metal there to add as a heat sink , which can help dramatically when pre-heating your pans , as they 'll be evenly heated across their bottom more quickly ( at least , compared to something of the same material , such as a cast iron skillet ) More importantly , in my opinion , is that without the sides , you do n't hold in moist air , so when cooking things like hash browns , you can get a better crust on 'em without steaming them .
I would say no . The function of the egg in the cake is to go in raw , mix with the other stuff , and once the raw egg has penetrated and coated the other ingredients thoroughly , bind it all together with that bouncy , sticky solidified eggy property which comes into existence as the egg cooks . Cooking the egg first all by itself , then adding to a cake would be like drying some crazy glue , then grinding up that hardened crust and putting the resulting powder between two things you want to stick together . The gluing action is all over when the glue has dried .
Margarine has less fat than butter , but it does n't give quite the same flavor as butter does . You also have to be careful what KIND of margarine you are using . Tub margarine has a higher water content and can ruin your baked goods and the stick margarine can have a lot of trans fats in it . If you really want to get detailed into the differences , check out this site : <URL> I agree with everything stated on that site in the fact that butter , in my opinion is far superior in flavor and texture than margarine . I have yet to meet a dish that butter did n't improve the taste over margarine . But there is the thing , it really is a lot about taste . A good quote from the site about margarine : " Not great for baking : does not allow foods to become flaky , rather more cakelike ; does not spread as well as lard or shortening ; adds a greasy taste . However , some bake with it all the time and have great success ; it 's a matter of taste . "
It has long been known that receptacles influence the taste and appreciation of beverages . <URL> , for example , are optimal for giving the nose an opportunity to experience the wine . They enclose a volume that allows you to swish the wine in the glass ( without spilling it ) to impart the aroma to air in the glass . The usually tapered opening keeps the aroma from dissipating before your nose can sense the wine . Champagne flutes , keep the effervescent champagne or prosecco bubbly and cold long enough to enjoy the drink without it going flat . Different <URL> are optimal for showcasing the " head " and are tall for the same reason as champagne flutes ( to keep the effervescence going as long as possible ) . I think it is absolutely the case that the same kinds of considerations apply to cola and other effervescent soft drinks . My opinion is that the best glass for such beverages is a <URL> . It it tall and narrow and keeps the bubbles going for a longer time than a wide glass , it is like a champagne flute but holds a larger volume which is needed for soft drinks .
In addition to the tips from Joe 's great grandmother , you might want to try and rinse the pasta thoroughly with some lukewarm water after cooking it al dente . That way you rinse off the remaining starch and you prevent the pasta from cooking any further . Rinsing results in firmer pasta that is silky smooth and does n't clump together or get mashed up . Your scoop or tongs will slither right through without damaging the pasta . :)
The idea of creaming is definitely to incorporate some air into the fat-sugar mixture , which should give the final product a lighter texture . So perhaps your cake was a little heavier than it was supposed to be . Good creaming also helps distribute the fat well . But maybe you managed to mix some more air in later in the recipe - certainly I imagine you could do better beating the batter with a stand mixer than I can by hand ! And with a stand mixer I 'm sure it was all mixed fine , too . So if the cakes were n't too heavy for you , it 's not anything to worry about .
end question
start question
How to know how salty is my soup without tasting ?
Here 's something useful to know . A good typical salt level for most savory foods is in the neighborhood of 1 % by weight . So if you know how much your dish weighs in grams , then add 1 % of that in salt and you should be very close to a good result . Adjust down if you are using any ingredients that are already salty , like capers . Adjust up if after the first few times you try this , it is a little light for you . You will also learn how much your salt weighs by volume so soon you can just use a measuring spoon or a pinch instead of weighing the salt .
the wire egg slicers seem to be free of this problem . Perhaps you could use a wire , or better yet the wire cutting tool that potters use for clay .
You can add quite a lot of tomato paste/puree but this will mask the fresh flavour of your tomatoes . I think I 'd just reduce the soup down once it was made or add carrots . Carrot flavour really complements tomato soup and many tomato soups recipes require carrots . The starch will then help you thicken the soup .
I 've used C-clamps before . You set the macademia in it , then tighten it down 'til it cracks . You can keep a gloved hand around the nut while turning the screw with the other hand to avoid the risk of flying shell bits . ( but you should be turning slow enough that it does n't crack explosively ) It does take some time , but it 's less than a minute per nut . It goes faster when they 're all similarly sized , so you 're not adjusting the clamp signicantly to fit the next one .
According to <URL> , you can you tell if your yogurt is ready by " gently jiggling one of the containers ... the yogurt will not move if it is ready and you can take it from the yogurt maker and put it in the refrigerator then . Or you can wait and let it get more tart for 12 hours or more . " It also gives more specific instructions about the three types of yogurt makers , so you can see which one you own and follow more recommendations based on that .
If the ice cream mix is setting up but tending to leave a buttery coating in your mouth the best thing would be to try cutting back on the cream and replacing it with whole milk or half &amp; half . If it 's a recipe that you 've used in another machine with great success but it does n't seem to in this one , it 's probably a case of how long the frozen bowl is staying cold . I have used the freezer bowl ice cream attachment for KitchenAid machines and have been frustrated more times than not as it does n't freeze up as it should . Too much sugar can also be a culprit in the mix not freezing quick enough . Sugar does n't freeze so a really sweet mix is going to be softer . You might try decreasing sugar content slightly ... not too much or you will end up with an icier result ( If adding fruit to ice cream , combine the chopped fruit with some sugar and cook just a little to allow the sugar to dissolve and the moisture to evaporate . The sugar soaking into the fruit will keep the fruit softer in the ice cream instead of forming icy chunks of fruit . Or , just mix in fruit preserves . ) Make sure that the mix is VERY cold , ideally chilled for several hours or overnight before it goes into the the freezer . If time is n't on your side , then quick-chill it in a metal bowl or container in an ice bath and stir frequently to help chill it throughout . The primary indicator for most ice cream freezers is that the dasher starts to sound labored in its attempt to stir the mix . Or if cranking by hand , you start to sound labored in your attempt to crank it ! Another factor that can affect freezing of ice cream ( although probably not the case in your instance since you do n't have control of the speed ) is the speed of the machine . In the case of the KitchenAid insulated bowl for freezing ice cream , they warn not to go faster than " stir " or the mix wo n't have a chance to freeze to the side of the bowl before the dasher scrapes it . I would try one of their recipes with it to see if it freezes up firm enough without turning to butter and then compare differences between your current recipe and theirs , adjusting sugar , milk to heavy cream ratio , etc. .
Steam a head of cauliflower , puree it . Add it to the soup . You might also consider some squash or sweet potato puree .
Not sure if Teflon looks any different when its worn out , but if it does its not much different . Exempting , of course , things like scratched &amp; peeling Teflon . If your pan is no longer giving you the nonstick performance you want , and you 've tried basic stuff like giving it a good scrub ( using a non-scratching sponge , of course ) , then it seems like you 've answered your own question : if its worn to the point it no longer meets your requirements , then its at its end of ( useful ) life , at least for you . ( There may be ways to adjust what you 're doing in the pan to get more life out of it ; after all , a lot of us sauté our onions in stainless . But that 'd be a different question , I suppose . )
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
The FDA does not currently have a legal definition of stone ground . Companies like Hodgson 's Mill , Bob 's Red Mill , and Arrowhead Mills have petitioned the FDA to set a definition in the past under the concept of truth in labeling , to no avail . <URL>
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
Marshmallows will dissolve ( " melt " ) in your hot cocoa for the same reason that they " melt " in your mouth : both provide heat and moisture . If you could somehow treat the marshmallows so that they did n't dissolve in the cocoa you would n't get the desired effect in your mouth either . It comes down to a matter of timing : how can you keep the marshmallows intact until you drink the cocoa ? I can think of three options : Drink the cocoa more quickly . Use larger marshmallows . Add more marshmallows as necessary . It 's not clear from your question exactly what kind of marshmallows you 're referring to . I suspect that you 're talking about the crunchily dehydrated " micro-mini " marshmallows that come in a packet of hot cocoa mix . Call me a snob , but those things hardly qualify as a " marshmallow " at all ; you should perhaps be happy that they dissolve , or else sift them out of the mix and throw them away ! If you like them , though , you 'll be happy to know that you can buy more : Amazon carries 12 oz . bags of dehydrated micro-mini marshmallows , and adding a spoonful to your cup when you 're ready to drink should solve the problem . If you feel like an upgrading your brew , pick up a bag of mini marshmallows and add a handful of those . Minis should be large enough to last for quite a while , and since they 're not dehydrated they 'll be somewhat sturdier in the cup . Marshmallows come in a number of sizes ... if the minis do n't last long enough for you , go with a few standard sized ( approximately 1 inch ) marshmallows . I 've seen jumbo marshmallows in the store lately , but you 'll probably need a larger cup if you want to have any room left for the cocoa . Try one of <URL> .
The way you 've described is precisely how I melt chocolate . If you have a double boiler , that 's even better , but a bowl on top of a pot is fine too . I can only think of two things that might be affecting the quality of your end result : Is the bowl big enough ? The melting bowl should be larger than the pot if possible ; you want the steam to be forced under and around it . Is the water temperature reasonable ? You want it to be at a simmer . If it 's rapidly boiling , the heat is too high . As long as you keep those two things in mind , your chocolate should melt fine ! Edit : Thought of one other thing : It 's possible that the steam is actually rising above the bowl , then hitting something ( like your range ) , condensing and then falling back into the bowl as water . You should n't even be getting much steam with this method , but just in case , turn your fan on , to make sure you are n't getting any condensation .
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
I would shred one or both leaves ( depending on size ) and garnish the soup right before eating it .
rfusca already gave very good suggestions for the literal question from the title . However , you can also address your problem the other way round . First , cook the soup until your noodles are al dente ( but will become just right while cooling at a normal speed ) . Take the big pot of soup off the heat . Second , take a small pot , and fill it with just one portion of soup per eater . Put it on the heat , and cook until the noodles are done . ( Alternatively , put the single portions into porcelain bowls and microwave until the noodles are ready - it spares you washing an additional pot , but I would n't nuke a good soup for no reason ) . Third , eat your cooked soup portions and let the big pot of soup slowly cool on its own . Fourth , freeze the soup from the big pot . Finis . Note that from a food safety point of view , you are better off with flash cooling the soup . But what I outlined here is probably much simple and hassle-free . Plus , 2-3 liters of soup minus a portion or two should spend less than the magical 4 hours in the danger zone while cooling . If you are doing this with a very big pot of soup and feeding lots of people , you should probably prefer a rapid cooling .
You can do anything with charcoal . One trick that we used to do when we were camping was to line a cardboard box with foil . Several metal grates or skewers would be stabbed into the box walls and a grate with a few coals hung near the bottom . We would use it to bake bread and pizzas . To control the temperature use more or fewer coals . <URL> As long as you are building things - another option to consider is solar oven . They consist of an insulated container , a transparent window , and a reflector . There are a <URL> to choose from . Some of the more permanent models can get above 350F as long as there is direct sunlight . This model was just one of top results from Google but it is a typical design : <URL>
A couple thoughts ... I have n't tried this , but I 've heard of people doing it . The microwave works relatively well to steam things . You could try " steaming " the dumplings in the microwave with a bit of water at the bottom of the dish or better yet , cover with a wet paper towel . You 'll probably need to do some experimenting unfortunately . Under " ideal " circumstances , I 'd probably prefer proper steaming , but this might work in a pinch . I imagine re-heating them would work well , but if cooking them works to your liking ... no sense cooking them twice . If you have a rice cooker , you could easily rig that up to " steam " as well . Just rig it up as if you were using a pot to steam it . Just make sure it is n't dry ...
It is perfectly normal for sugar to turn dark brown when making . If it turns even darker , it is because it has been burning too hot . <URL> , so you want to get there gradually . As for the color , many recipes call for to make it smoother and tender , but only incorporate it after the crystals are fully dissolved and you 're ready to take it off the burner . I 've seen a few youtube videos with just sugar and water for sugar cages ...
The biggest thing you can do is peel it . If a cucumber 's bitter , it 's much more in the peel than in the flesh . It 's also usually more bitter at the stem end , so you might want to start from the other end , and possibly ultimately discard an inch from the stem end if it really is too bitter for you . Unless you 're unusually sensitive to the bitterness , that ought to cover it . Bitterness is also fairly variable from cucumber to cucumber , so it 's possible that you could shop for less bitter ones - maybe a different variety - or buy them only during more favorable seasons .
end question
start question
Is there a way to tone down the flavor of celery in an Oyster Mushroom Chowder ?
I 'm going to step out on a limb here and declare that you 'll need to add more of the other ingredients . Even then , you 're likely to throw off the overall balance of flavors because they have not all cooked together . Here 's a <URL> that suggests there are about 6 compounds that primarily contribute to the flavor and aroma of celery . However , as a home cook , I have no idea what any of these are or how to suppress them specifically . It may be possible to do so , but that solution is likely to be impractical for the home chef . Another problem is that celery has a very flavor-enhancing effect ; this is why it shows up so often in traditional vegetable bases like <URL> and <URL> . Here 's another <URL> summarizing a paper that identified the specific compounds responsible for this ; the odd thing is that these " phthalides " are largely tasteless . In short : the balance and overall tastiness of your soup might have been reached specifically by adding so much celery . I think you 're going to have to chalk this one up as a learning experience and adjust your recipe next time . One thing you could try ( if you 're not already , which would surprise me a little ) is <URL> the celery . I find that this makes the flavor overall a bit milder , with less of the vegetal-bitter flavors while still getting the umami-enhancing effect .
Piping bag is your answer . You just do n't use a tip on it .
Cook it less , if you can . The more you cook it , the more you get that smell . Perhaps you are just more sensitive to it than most ; I do n't generally notice it until it 's overcooked by my standards . Along with this , cook it as fast as you can . The flavor you do n't like is produced by enzymes converting precursor molecules into those with the flavor . From On Food and Cooking : Heating cabbages and their friends has two different effects . Initially the temperature rise ... speeds the enzyme activity and flavor generation , with maximum activity around 140F/60C . The enzymes stop working altogether somewhere short of the boiling point . If the enzymes are quickly inactivated by plunging the vegetables into abundant boiling water , then many of the flavor precursor molecules will be left intact . ... If the cooking period is prolonged , then the constant heat gradually transforms the flavor molecules . Eventually the sulfur compounds end up forming trisulfides , which accumulate and are mainly responsible for the strong and lingering smell of overcooked cabbage . So as suggested by others , boiling instead of steaming to reduce cooking time helps . So does cooling quickly , with cold or ice water . Boiling in excess water will also leach some out , but you might also lose flavor you like . A couple other thoughts , also from On Food and Cooking . Cabbage family vegetables grown in the summer , and under drought stress , produce more of the flavor precursors , and those grown in the autumn and winter with less light and more water have less . They 're also more concentrated in the core of the vegetables . And for cabbage , you can remove a lot of them by chopping and soaking in cold water ; conceivably the same could work for broccoli , but again perhaps at the cost of desirable flavor .
Cut out any green parts then remove the skin . If you can see any remaining green parts after the skin is removed then cut them out too . What you 'll have at this point will likely look and feel like any other peeled potato except with bits cut out . If it still feels soft or looks unusual throw it out , otherwise its fine . Just a normal potato whose skin had gone a bit wrinkly and soft .
Using a bicarbonate of Soda paste is a good way to clean the oven and does not involve any nasty chemicals . Also , as you need to clean the base of the oven , it can help if you remove the door if it is a drop down door . This makes reaching inside much easier . Most doors are designed to be removed easily . Sometimes your manual will provide instructions on how to remove the door for cleaning . Otherwise this video on <URL> may help as it covers four different types of hinge .
It 's meant to be munched on between sips , and permits a " reset " - the cocktail will be fresh upon the tongue the sip after the bite , permitting you to enjoy its flavor and consistency without being oppressed by the cumulative effect of unctuous , spice and salt that is the hallmark of the beverage . Celery is an astringent and an aromatic - it will cut through the palate-coating tomato juice can leave behind , cool the intensity of the salt and heat , and will interrupt the soup-like consistency with a firm crunch . It 's often included in tuna and chicken salad and served with hot wings for the same reason . Other vegetables that tickle our sense of " bitter " in a pleasing way may be similarly substituted - but celery also acts as a handy swizzle stick .
Crepes were made long before teflon was invented . I use a quality steel pan and non stick spray . I reapply the spray every 3rd or 4th crepe to avoid sticking . Everything else is temperature control . If your temps are too high then the crepes will toast and burn before they set on top . If the temp is too low then they are more prone to sticking . It takes some trial and error and the first few are usually wrong - I eat those . The temperature is always very low though - between low and medium-low on my stove .
By the wording of the question , I 'm pretty sure you 're using one of those pyramidal graters or a " sheet " grater . That 's great for getting the " bulk " , but if you want to grate a small amount of cheese ( or the last bit of a large amount , if you do n't want to just eat it ) then you really need to get yourself a <URL> . They 're more commonly used for fine/hard cheeses such as Parmesan , but most half-decent ones will come with a " coarse " blade that can be used for cheddar , mozzarella and so on . Rotary graters all have a plate at the top that lets you push the cheese down onto the blade . Higher-quality graters will give you slightly better results ; the $ 10 cheap ones tend to leave a mush at the bottom that 's hard to grate , even if you squeeze really hard , but that 's easily remedied with a small wooden block or really any object at all to put between the top plate and the cheese you 're trying to grate .
Your filling is basically a beef stew/casserole , so any cuts that suite long slow cooking are fine . They get cooked again while the pie is baked , so premium cuts will just be wasted The lower grade and ' off cut ' parts are what are most commonly used . Like rump , brisket , chuck , shank , neck etc Using a bench top slow cooker makes cooking this all very easy . The beef needs to be fully cooked before making the pie . An eight hour slow cook is fine You want the pieces to be a variety of sizes to fill out the pie shape , but make sure you have some at least the height of the pie filling . The larger pieces tend to be better , but that could be a matter of taste and culture You need to get rid of plenty of fat before and after cooking . A mouth full of fat in a pie is not nice . There is already plenty of fat in the gravy and pastry , so trim off all you can A good meat pie should have a solid layer of meat connected with gravy , not swimming . It should also not be so full as you ca n't eat it with your hands ( for a single serve pie ) without loosing half the contents Puff/flakey pastry works best and holds everything together Avoid overly strong flavoured gravies , you do n't want to hide the beef and pastry taste Before you attach the lid , place a slice of tasty cheese , or an extra generous serving of cracked pepper on top of the filling A respectable pie looks like this - thanks to Ponsonby Pies ( not made in Ponsonby anymore )
As Lars Friedrich already wrote , curing with salt is a way to kill bacteria . A high sugar content and the removal of water in general alters the <URL> .1 Some chemicals are toxic to bacteria ( and to some extend also toxic to humans ) like <URL> ( which is used to preserve caviar ; I 'm not sure if it only inhibits the growth of bacteria ) or ethanol ( drinking alcohol ) . <URL> are used - not exclusively - in wine making and on dried fruit . You can alter the pH. I doubt the food will be edible as-it-is . Last but not least you can <URL> the food to sterilize it . Irradiation is also commonly used to sterilize ( disposable ? ) medical equipment . Please note that freezing does not kill any bacteria . Side note : There are some other <URL> but they are not common as foodborne pathogens . If you really want to be sure that the food is sterile without cooking , you have pressure-sterilize , " poison " it or irradiate it . You can also preserve food even with bacteria and fungi : A sourdough has an almost indefinitely shelf-live . It basically only consists of flour , water and a mix of many different bacteria and yeasts . <URL> also has a very long shelf life . For further reading : The <URL> rule describes the six favorable conditions required for the growth of foodborne pathogens . 1 Caveat : ( Botulinum ) spores survive in honey . Do they count as bacteria ?
According to <URL> and confirmed by several others I found on the internet , the Humboldt Squid produces ammonia chloride as a defense mechanism , or as a side effect of asphixiation , or maybe both . I could n't find terribly reliable advice on how to avoid the contamination , but two points were repeatedly suggested on various bulletin boards : When you catch the humboldt squid , cut its head off , clean and ice it immediately ( on the boat ) . when cleaning it , be careful not to puncture the swim bladder . The other suggestion repeatedly offered was to catch some other kind of squid . Hope that helps . For more 3rd-hand advice , search the internet for " squid ammonia flavor " and you 'll see lots of bulletin boards and similar sources .
Yes , cream soups are typically roux-based . If you add some flour ( roughly an equal amount to the butter ) to the fats , whisk and cook the flour for a couple minutes and then slowly whisk in the milk , it will be much less likely to separate . The soup will also be thicker , which I would imagine is a good thing .
What Rincewind42 says about caramelization is true in itself , but it does n't apply here . Cotton candy is made from sugar syrup at the hard ball stage ( 130 ° C ) , so too cold for caramelization . Caramelization only starts occuring at 160 ° C and above . In fact , caramel has a very different texture from sugar , so it is practically impossible to spin cotton out of it . It makes spidery , unendly elastic strands , unlike the brittle cotton candy strands . Plus , it is visibly brown , and tastes very different from sugar , so you 'd notice it when eating the cotton candy . The flavor of cotton candy is indeed sugar ( unless it has had something else added ) . But taste is not the same thing as flavor . Things taste different to us based on texture , aroma , color and food name . ( I once read about a study made with unusually colored puddings . People who had eaten cherry pudding with yellow coloring were sure they are eating banana or lemon , and they were convinced the pink vanilla pudding was strawberry ) . So it is entirely possible that a gelato customer who eats a gelato called " cotton candy " , has lots of sugar and is painted a pastel color will perceive it as having a different taste from non-flavored ice cream which has lots of sugar , but not the color or the name , especially if the texture of the " cotton candy " flavor is tweaked a bit .
Well , if you really want a " definitive " way to measure when lactic fermentation is complete , you 'd have to do a laboratory test directly for residual sugars . Most traditional foods that are lactic-acid fermented do n't have enough sugar to reach a final acidity that will self-limit continued fermentation by killing all the bacteria . ( Foods with too much sugar also often tend to spontaneously undergo yeast fermentation and lead to alcohol production instead if not monitored . ) Given the wide variety of fermentation products that can result from initial ingredients and different fermentation conditions , it 's really difficult to come up with some sort of " test strip " or something for residual sugar that is accurate . Home fermenters rarely bother with such things , but large-scale commercial fermentation sometimes tests residual sugar content for batches to ensure shelf-stability . That said , a specific recipe with specific starting ingredients will often have a target pH range , depending on the quantity of sugar in the ingredients , the amount of salt ( which in excess will inhibit further fermentation ) , desired flavor , etc. . The composition of the ingredients will determine the mininum possible pH when fermentation is effectively complete . The desired pH of lacto-fermented foods can vary anywhere from about 3.0 ( even down to ~ 2.75 for some sweet relishes ) to 4.5 ( more common in grain-based ferments , or quick-fermented vegetables meant to be used up quickly ) . To answer the specific question for sauerkraut , I 'd say most people would say sauerkraut fermentation is " complete " when a pH of ~ 3.5 or below is reached ( though opinions may vary ) . Part of the difficulty in answering the question is that home fermentation is often done with the intention of keeping the food " alive " even when it is consumed , which means fermentation will still be ongoing . In most traditional food cultures around the word , lactic acid fermentation is often deliberately incomplete , only used for a short period to transform an ingredient and then use it within a dish for consumption . This contrasts with much alcohol production , where continued fermentation in your final product can obviously create various difficulties for bottling , proper aging , etc. . And some people just prefer food at various earlier stages in the fermentation process . To take sauerkraut as an example , a pH of 4.0-4 .5 will be achieved rather quickly ( usually within a few days , depending on temperature , salt content , etc. ) . Some people prefer the taste of a fresher , crunchier product , and they may only ferment for a few days and then refrigerate to slow down fermentation significantly . Other people like to go much further and will ferment sauerkraut anywhere from a month to several months , again depending on temperature -- to achieve a final pH below 3.5 and even down to ~ 3.0 . Over time , the final product will obviously get more sour , but it will also soften and various nutritional changes will take place . It 's all a matter of preference when done at home . Lastly , in reference to the " lagering " aspect of the question , I think the closest analog in lacto-fermentation is the fact that various processes ( and various bacteria ) will work better at different temperatures . A higher temperature fermentation , for example , may result in a greater acetic acid component in the final ingredients , enhancing the " sharp " vinegar notes . At lower temperatures other bacteria may become more prominent in the fermentation , and in some temperature ranges enzymes and natural ( spoilage ) reactions may help to change flavor and texture too . Anyhow , for these reasons , some people prefer to refrigerate fermented foods or hold them for a while at " cold cellar " temperatures to allow these " aging " mechanisms to work as bacteria slow down ( analogous to lagering ) . Whether this is done after fermentation is effectively complete or at an earlier stage when the food is less sour again depends on individual preference .
The answer , quite simply , is no . Even advanced laboratories have difficulty making the determination for certain . This is also a complex problem that gets more difficult as various standards are used and then fail . Before 2000 , a common solution was to simply use microscopic analysis to look for pollen and and other vegetable matter . Since then , many honey processing plants have been developing increasingly advanced filtering techniques that will remove the characteristic markers ( deliberately or unintentionally ) . [ ** See detailed note below . ] Various chemical or basic physical markers also have proved insufficient , since the sugar composition of honey can be faked quite well with various sugar syrup blends . The accepted standard these days , as mentioned in the question , seems to be to use a mass spectrometer to determine the <URL> in a rather specific lab procedure . ( Obviously most people do n't have a mass spectrometer at home . ) The current procedure for this test was adopted after previous lab tests were shown to <URL> in some batches of honey . The isotope ratio method is the only one specifically listed in the FDA 's <URL> to determine the possibility of adulteration : FDA laboratories do not have the instrumental capability to analyze honey according to the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC International , AOAC Official Method 991.41 , which requires an isotope ratio mass spectrometer . Ironically , in order to avoid the previous false positives for the New Zealand honey mentioned above , the new testing process <URL> , a process which has also been used to hide the origin of honey and to confuse analysis : To eliminate a false positive C ( 4 ) sugar test for Manuka honey , prior removal of pollen and other insoluble material from the honey is necessary to ensure that only the pure protein is isolated . But even a refined isotopic methodology is flawed when it comes to detecting various types of adulteration , specifically beet sugar . As <URL> notes : [ Using isotope ratios from a mass spectrometer , ] adulteration using C4 sugar syrups ( HFCS and GS ) could be detected to a certain extent while adulteration of honey using C3 sugar syrups ( beet sugar ) could not be detected . Adulteration by using SS ( beet sugar ) still has a serious detection problem , especially in countries in which beet is used in manufacturing sugar . So , what 's the alternative ? Well , the other general method that could detect various adulterating components is <URL> ( DSC ) . <URL> gives a good summary of the process , which essentially looks at how a material behaves as it undergoes thermal changes . At certain temperatures when crystallization or something occurs , there will be excess heat absorbed or given off compared to at other temperatures . And at other points there will be minor changes in heat capacity ( i.e. , the amount of heat it takes to alter the temperature of a substance by a specific number of degrees ) . Honey , for example , displays a glass transition temperature ( Tg ) around -40 ° C ( -40 ° F ) near a certain point in crystallization . Other sugar syrups may not show this , but they may show changes at slightly higher temperatures ( still below freezing ) , due to water crystals freezing or thawing . ( Water is included in the sugar network in honey , so it does n't show the same characteristics . ) There are other thermal properties that can be measured at various temperatures . As <URL> summarizes in its conclusion : Used concomitantly with the second enthalpy of fusion ( occurring between 40 and 90 ° C ) , the glass transition temperature , Tg , is one of the most potentially useful parameters for characterizing honeys and syrups and for distinguishing between them . The Tg value , being strongly dependent on the amorphous phases of the sample , will respond to modification of the chemical composition and the implicit structural modification caused by the addition of exogenous material . Thus , adulteration of the honey will cause inevitable changes in both Tg and [ delta ] H2 values . Under laboratory conditions , adulterations by industrial sugar syrups can be detected from 5-10 % additions depending on the measured parameter . I would pay particular attention to this final sentence -- the differences can only be detected " under laboratory conditions " where precise temperatures and amounts of heat can be measured . To replicate such a test at home , you 'd need to be able to add a certain precise amount of heat to the honey at subzero temperatures , all the while keeping it isolated from other sources of temperature fluctuations and observing where the heating " stalls " briefly . Then , you 'd have to calibrate your homemade test against some known samples ( syrups , 100 % honey , etc. ) just to be sure you 're actually observing the same things as in the article cited here . You 'd need to confirm that by observing a more subtle difference in heat capacity changes that would occur in hot temperature ranges
Instead of dousing the coals , in a primitive setup , you would be better served to manipulate distance from heat source as your form of temperature control . It can be as simple as adding or removing bricks to space your grill from your flame , or as complicated as a pulley-based system to raise or lower your grate . Using water will cause your coals to smolder , which can give off creosote ( less likely with charcoal than wood , but still a possibility ) . This can impart a rather nasty flavor into your food . If you are unable to or uncomfortable with changing your grate distance , then salt or some other dry smothering agent would be viable .
Two things . Use a sharper knife . Do n't chop , but slice gently . Let the weight of the blade do the cutting .
Sterno is gelled denatured alcohol . It is denatured alcohol ( a combination of methanol and ethanol ) so that you ca n't , safely , drink it , but it is still mostly alcohol , which will dissolve in water and clean up just fine . While I would n't dump a lot of it down the sink , you should have no problem with cleanup . And while Sterno is n't safe to drink , it wo n't be a problem if you touch it in cleaning up . I just double checked the Sterno site and they confirm water cleanup and say , additionally , that it is biodegradable .
The weight of flour varies immensely depending on how densely it 's packed and the humidity . If you 've started with a weight-based recipe , I 'd try to find a scale . If that 's absolutely not an option , I tend to approximate 100g = 1 cup . Be warned , I 've found some recipes that are really sensitive to the amount of flour and the difference between a lightly sifted cup and a scooped cup can really throw off the results . You might do better to try to divide another kg package of flour evenly and use the approximation that 0.6 lb is about 0.25 kg ( i.e. one quarter of the bag ) .
The smoky flavour of barbecued foods is best achieved through burning lump charcoal or hardwood . In the scenario you 're describing , yes , burning hardwood and then cooking over the coals would give you a smoky flavour Store bought briquettes actually probably give you less of a smoky flavour because instead of using wood , many briquettes use other materials/binders that do n't give you the smoky flavour you want .
end question
start question
How do I use no-boil lasagna noodles in a normal recipe ?
You can use ' no-boil ' pasta straight from the box , alternatively , you can soak it it warm water for a few minutes . The soaked pasta may prove to be a little easier to manipulate when building the lasagne . However , providing there is enough liquid in the sauce , soaking is unnecessary . Personally , I 'd cover the dish with foil until the last 10 to 15 minutes of the cooking process , this will allow the pasta to cook and it should prevent the sauce from drying out . The last 10 to 15 minutes uncovered will provide the colour .
An easy way of incorporating a spicy kick into any existing chocolate cake recipe that uses actual chocolate would be to substitute a portion of the called for chocolate ( with a matching chocolate type ; i.e. dark and dark , milk and milk ) that already has cayenne or some other hot pepper ingredient . Of course , you will need to experiment to get the right level of heat . Adding straight cayenne powder while the chocolate is melted , or shredded would also be an ideal time to ensure even distribution of the spice . In the event your recipe does not use an actual chocolate base , but rather something that replicates the flavor , the time to add the cayenne would be when the ' flavor packet ' is added .
This is the last write-up on the topic , and it 's much simpler : For hand-pulled noodles , you need : Bread flour ( wet gluten 29-30 % , protein 11 % -12 % ) 45 % added water 1 % alkaline solution kansui powder or ( Lye Water + Baking powder ) or Peng or Baking Soda Ingredients ( Alkaline solutions ) kansui powder 55 % sodium carbonate ( Na2CO3 ) , 35 % potassium carbonate ( K2CO3 ) , 10 % sodium biphosphate dodecahydrate ( NaHPO3 .12 H2O ) Lye Water potassium carbonate ( K2CO3 ) 74.5 % in 100ml sodium biphosphate ( NaHPO3 ) 3.4 % in 100ml Instant ash Peng sodium carbonate ( Na2CO3 ) 90 % Sodium chloride ( NaCl ) 1.15 % It is recommended to use bread flour because of its higher wet gluten content compared to normal white flour . You will also need a small amount of alkali . One recommendation is to use kansui powder , due to its ph of 11 . If kansui is n't available , the next option would be baking powder and lye water . If either is n't available , the next option would be to use sodium carbonate 1 % of total weight flour weight ( e.g. if you use 100g of flour , use 1g of sodium carbonate ) . If you 're using a lower gluten dough like all-purpose flour , then baking powder will do just fine . If you 're using cake flour , use baking soda . ( Remember to add the kansui/baking soda/baking powder/sodium carbonate to the flour and mix it in before adding water . ) Sodium carbonate vs. potassium carbonate : I 've have n't had success with bread flour , plain flour or all-purpose flour with potassium carbonate . Even though it increases the ph of the dough , it still does not give the dough its stretchability . Why use alkaline solution in the first place ?! Alkaline solution will increase the water absorption and gluten creation of the dough to enable it to be pulled sooner than normal by leaving the dough to rest at room temperature for 45 to 60 minutes . The downside of the alkaline solution is that it also breaks down gluten after the peak absorption is achieved . So on one side you have faster absorption but on the other side the dough will become more resilient to pulling if left too long . For a non-alkaline solution , use <URL> . It will cover all the basics that you will need to learn , and you WILL need to use all-purpose flour or plain flour . Noodle flour works best . In conclusion : Without sodium carbonate it 's possible to have hand-pulled noodles with any flour . The downside is you will have to knead the dough for 45 minutes and leave to rest for 2 hours until you can start pulling your noodle strands . Without sodium carbonate the noodles are harder to pull and I had most success with cutting each strand and going from there from the video .
First , I 'm assuming by " pesto " you mean " Pesto alla Genovese " , given your question about pine nuts . Basil , pine nuts , garlic , olive oil , and cheese is a delicious combination , but it 's only one of many " pestos " ( peste , actually ) , since pesto refers in general to any sauce which is made from crushed or pureed ingredients . Mix and match to your heart 's content . Walnuts are actually a traditional alternative to pine nuts for Pesto alla Genovese ; pine nuts have always been scarce , even in early-20th-century Italy . As a caution , though , you need to get good , fresh walnuts and make sure to get all of the skin off the nuts , or the pesto will taste bitter and rancid . Almonds could also work , although I 'd think they 'd be rather bland . The herb pastes which traditionally have crushed almonds -- such as Romanesco sauce -- include some hot pepper . Again , freshness and getting the skin off is important . I 'd think sunflower seeds would be kind of odd and oily , but you do n't know until you try . If you do , post a comment to let us know !
Short answer - not really . Fat is an essential component in any cake , and milk just is n't very fatty - about 5 % for whole milk . You can make cakes with milk , but they require totally different recipes : you ca n't simply substitute milk for oil . Bear in mind that you 're distributing the cup of oil throughout a whole cake , so that any one slice will only have a fraction of the oil . I assume you 'll also be sharing the cake with others , so you 'll be ' spreading the calories ' somewhat . You should be using a neutral oil like canola ( rapeseed ) oil anyway , as it has a relatively mild flavour . A popular alternative these days is to substitute all but a couple of tablespoons of the oil with apple sauce ( really ) , but this can be hit and miss and does n't work with all recipes - it usually works best with things like quick breads ( scones etc ) . Of course , there 's also the point that cakes are supposed to be a treat , and they 'd be less of a treat without the fat , in which case why bother ? If you want to be healthy , make a salad . If you want a treat , make a cake and do n't worry about the contents too much .
The purpose of the beer ( and the vinegar ) in this case is to add some of the malty , fermenty flavors typical of longer-fermented or sourdough breads . You can either leave it out and replace it with an equal quantity of water or use a <URL> The carbonation from the beer might add a little extra lift at the start to establish some air cells and work the gluten a bit , but with an 18 hour room-temperature bulk rise , that benefit would be negligible . In most beers ( especially large US commercial bottlers ) there is n't enough active yeast left in the bottle by the time it is drunk to do anything either . The author of the original article ( Cook 's Illustrated # 90 , Jan 2008 ) added the beer and vinegar in order to add flavor to a bread recipe that already produced decent bread . My bread now had tang [ from the vinegar ] , but it lacked complexity . What I needed was a concentrated shot of yeasty flavor . As I racked my brain , I realized that beyond bread , there is another commonly available substance that relies on yeast for flavor : beer .
There is lots of use for high temperatures . Especially pizza is the first thing that comes to mind ; there is no home oven which can get to the proper temperatures for a Neapoletana ( which are above 500 Celsius ) , but more is always better . Of course , the salesman will tell you what you need to hear to buy his product , do n't listen to him . This still does n't mean that you should only buy the oven with the highest max temperature ; there are badly built ovens which claim to reach 300 Celsius but ca n't actually do it , in this case you are probably better off with a better quality oven with a lower nominal maximum temperature . It is probably best to compare reviews made by independent test organizations .
Short answer : Brining after boiling wo n't do much ( if anything ) , and you probably do n't want to boil all parts of the chicken anyway . One primary purpose of brining is to hydrate the cells of the muscle tissue before cooking , which allows the cells to hold on to more moisture during the cooking process via denaturation of the proteins . If you cook the meat first , then the heat will permanently denature the proteins first , so the brine will essentially be useless . The reason why you want to pre-cook chicken wings is that ( a ) they have a lot of fat which melts off into the cooking liquid , and ( b ) they have a good amount of connective tissue ( collagen ) which needs to be cooked low and slow to soften into delicious gelatin . Most of the other parts of the chicken do n't have nearly as much fat and collagen , so boiling them would likely only serve to overcook them .
Note : I am assuming this glass is kitchenware , like mixing bowls or measuring cups , not service ware like drinking glasses or teacups . Glass melts at about 1500 F / 800 C . There is no danger of melting the glass in any type of steamer , or realistically with any equipment you may have at home . The real issue is thermal shock : very rapidly cooling glass from a hot temperature to a cold temperature can cause it to crack or shatter . You want to avoid doing this . The same thing can happen in reverse from cold to hot , which is why you would never use glass cookware on an open flame or burner element of your cooktop ( hob to our British friends ) . To prevent thermal shock , even in a closed pot used as an improvised steamer , do not place the glassware directly on the bottom of the pot . It should be suspended on a rack or otherwise raised from the bottom . If no other solution presents itself , aluminum foil loosly crushed into a ring will do the job ( loosly , because aluminum is a good conductor or heat , but air is not ) . Steaming is fairly gentle in terms of heating , and if you let it cool on the counter , you should be fine . Note that I would not do this with any delicate or thin glass . Think about it this way : if you would use the glass in the microwave , the steamer should be fine as well . Of course , you can always steam on a lettuce leaf or similar , which is very traditional , or use a metal steamer basket as well . Please also see Rumtscho 's answer for more optimal alternatives .
There are two ways to thicken gravy : simmer down Requires time , patience and a wide pot to get a large surface area for optimum evaporation . Simmering down results in very concentrated flavours ( including salt , so be careful with salting in the beginning ) . use a thickener This is often something starchy like flour or corn / potato starch that binds the liquid . Note that the flavours wo n't be as concentrated , sometimes even a bit dulled by the starch . So try your sauce and depending on the flavour level you have reached now , you should simmer longer , use starch or do both sequentially . ( If your guests are hungrily gnawing at the tablecloth already , whip out the starch , adjust the seasoning and serve asap ^_^ )
Peanut ( groundnut ) oil is a great option . In the US vegetable oil generally means soybean oil or a soybean oil blend . The main things are that it be neutral ( little or no taste of its own ) , with a high smoke point . On those scores , you ca n't do much better than peanut oil . I have not used rice bran oil . Yellow squash generally means this : ( the long one ) It can also mean the other yellow vegetable in the picture or this : What it is not , is butternut : That is a different flavor entirely . Yellow squash is more like zucchini , butternut squash is more like pumpkin . Welcome to Seasoned Advice .
Since the original recipe does not say explicitly that the scallops should be cooked from a frozen state , you should thaw them in the refrigerator before making the dish . Do not precook them -- just thaw them , and cook them as per the recipe . You will also want to pat them dry with a paper towel or lint free towel , so that they are as dry as reasonably possible .
i STRONGLY recommend against it . i can speak from experience that the sudden change in temperature can cause glass baking dishes ( particularly when they go from as high of a heat required by no-knead bread to a cool room temp ) to shatter and explode ! i had a pyrex dish go supernova on me once , sending hot flying glass shards all over the kitchen . how i did n't get hit i 'll never know , but it melted holes in our floor and left scorch marks ! more information from Consumer Reports : <URL> you can pick up some heavy pots suitable for no-knead break baking at thrift stores and garage sales for a song . if you can find a cast-iron dutch oven , even better ! i urge you to dig around a bit . the results are really worth it .
I like to use the 15 % rule . To convert a recipe from convection to conventional : Multiply the cook time by 1.15 . Multiply the heat by 1.15 For example , your recipe would become : " Each loaf should bake at ( 300 * 1.15 = 345 ) degrees Fahrenheit in convection/steam oven for approximately ( 40 * 1.15 = 46 ) minutes or until the loaf reaches 155 degrees internal temperature . " You can convert back by multiplying by .85 .
With thin cuts of meat ( like chicken breast or a steak ) , you want to make sure you put the thermometer in to the thin side of the meat so that the whole thermometer goes in to the meat , rather than putting it in through the " top " so that only a little of the thermometer is in the meat . If you 're putting it in the top , you can get wildly inaccurate temperatures . Also make sure that the thermometer is n't touching a pan , exposed to air , or touching a bone . Any of those can have a negative effect . Also , you only need to cook chicken to 74C / 165F . That may be part of the problem in your case . You may also want to check that your thermometer is accurate . You can stick it in boiling water to check that it reads 100C / 212F ( assuming of course it goes up that high ) .
I have never added butter to sponge sheets when making swiss rolls , jelly rolls , or anything similar in the past . It 's just straight up bread flour , sugar , and eggs . I can only think of three possible reasons why butter might be added : To improve the flavour ; To keep the sheets moist and help prevent overbaking , as any fat would be used in cake batter ; however , this is generally not a major concern in cake rolls ; or To help prevent it from sticking to the sheet ( do n't bother ; if you have this problem , use a silicone mat ) . Reasons # 2 and # 3 are n't very convincing to me , so I would only bother adding butter if you prefer the taste of swiss rolls with butter added . I do n't think butter would help with rolling at all , in fact it might make rolling more difficult on account of making the sheets more crumbly and less able to hold together under pressure .
Technically , your idea seems sound . But I would n't do it . What you are proposing to do in your electric kettle is very close to the standards for flash pasteurization . According to wikipedia , the standard procedure for flash pasteurization is to heat and circulate the liquid at 71.5 ° C ( 160 ° F ) to 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) , for about 15 to 30 seconds , which results in a five log ( 99.999 % ) or greater reduction in bacteria . Other journal articles seem to indicate that some protozoa like cryptosporidium are killed by flash pasteurization , but others , like giardia , might survive in small numbers . I suspect the guideline for boiling water in issues of safety and in recipes is used because steam and bubbles are such convenient guarantors of temperature . Psychologically , though , this makes me a little nervous . Personally , I would boil the water - if you have time for tea , you have time to boil water . It is possible , though , that you are a more adventurous tea drinker than I am .
Since you specified not wanting any equipment other than a campfire and a stick , the best I can do is add one more piece of equipment you should be able to find anywhere ( i.e. , not have to carry with you ) : a rock . If you put a flat-topped rock just to the edge of your campfire , you should be able to place a graham cracker and slab of chocolate on top of it . While you are toasting your marshmallow on the stick , the chocolate should start to melt . This technique wo n't produce totally melted chocolate ( unless you have a very large , very hot fire ) , but the chocolate should get a little melty without being so runny that none of it makes it into your mouth . This only works if you have thin Hershey bars or other chocolate in relatively thin pieces . Thick slabs wo n't soften all the way through with this type of indirect heat . And for those people concerned about dirt , bring some aluminum foil to act as a buffer between the rock/dirty stuff and your s ' more . Extraneous but related note : Your question got me thinking about ways to achieve melted chocolate with microwave s'mores ( a last resort if I 'm stuck inside with an electric oven or no oven at all ) , and I have an idea I 'll test out tonight . When I microwave s'mores , I usually microwave the bottom graham cracker , chocolate and marshmallow together , then top with the other graham cracker once the marshmallow gets gooey . The chocolate does n't really get melted that way , though , because marshmallows take almost no time at all to melt . I 'm wondering if pushing the chocolate inside the marshmallow before I stick it in the microwave might help the chocolate melt more . I will update once I 've had a chance to try this . Edit : I did n't really notice any difference between microwaving the chocolate inside the marshmallow v. underneath the marshmallow .
Slice off 1/2 " of the top of the onion ( opposite the root ) Place onion root side up , and make slices all the way through , staying at least 1/2 " away from the root Flip it over and spread apart the leaves This is best described with <URL> . Alternatively , if you 're willing to drop a few hundred dollars , you can buy a bloomin ' onion cutter . This is what restaurants use . There are cheaper alternatives , but I ca n't vouch for their quality or ease of use .
Usually it 's best to cook dried noodles in boiling water , and drain and rinse them in cold water when they are done . This does a couple of things : helps ensure that the noodle is equally cooked all the way through ( instead of getting overcooked on the outside by the time the centre is cooked ) . by using separate water , you do n't fill your broth with starch , which would adversely affect the taste , colour and consistency . If you want to add the noodles directly to the broth , I would recommend rinsing them in cold water first ( like you would with rice ) until the water runs clear . This will prevent excess starch from being added to your dish . You could also try adding a stock cube to the water that you boil the noodles in , if your goal is simply to make the noodles more flavourful .
end question
start question
What 's the closest replacement for clam juice ?
Cook 's Thesaurus recommends <URL> . As I do n't tend to make fish stock , I 'd probably either use shrimp stock ( take the shells and heads , simmer in water for about an hour ) , or crab stock ( just use the shells , and maybe the smaller legs if you did n't extract the meat from them ) If you can find it , some stores will carry ' seafood bullion ' or ' shrimp bullion ' . As they tend to be salty , I 'd probably only use them at half strength , like the recommendation for substituting chicken stock . In a real pinch , you might be able to use water + fish sauce , but I have no idea what the proportions would be . ( I 'd probably compare sodium levels , and try to match that . So 1400mg/TB vs. 120-280mg / 2oz ... so averages 800mg/cup , so about 1.5 tsp fish sauce + water to replace a cup of clam juice ) .
I have a bottle of San-J Tamari ( black label ) in my fridge and the back reads : Tamari is a premium soy sauce made with more soybeans than ordinary soy sauce giving it a richer , smoother , more complex taste . Tamari has more flavor enhancing properties than salt . Add 1 tsp . ( 320 mg sodium ) instead of tsp . salt ( 590 mg sodium ) to reduce sodium intake . Stir-fry or marinate poultry , meat fish and vegetables . Add 1-2 tsp . to perk up sauces , soups , gravies and casseroles . In my experience , I use a little less tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . As Sean mentioned , it 's definitely a bit stronger than regular soy sauce . I eyeball most of the time , but I 'd say I use 1/2 to 3/4 portion of tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . I reach for the tamari when I want a bit more of a complex flavor on something plain like rice - when the soy sauce is to be the star of the dish , essentially . I tend to use regular soy sauce when mixing into a larger homemade sauce or where the soy sauce flavor will blend into the background because the recipe calls for so many other strong ingredients . Oh , and tamari seems to add a bit of an almost " smoky " flavor , it seems .
French presses work pretty well for cold brewed coffee . Just put the coffee and the water in and let it " brew " for a long period of time , then press it down to remove the grounds . <URL> .
Lime juice is n't going to make it less spicy , if anything I 've found it accentuates the spiciness a bit although I 'm not sure of the mechanism . It could be that the acidity frees up more capsaicin compounds ( what makes hot food hot ) , or wakes up your taste buds more . Most likely you have simply added a weak jalapeno . Peppers of the same variety can vary in heat strength quite a bit depending on the where and how it was grown , although you 'll get weak and strong peppers from the same plant . You can make up for the lack of spice by adding more jalapeno or a bit of hot chili powder .
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
Apple cider has two meanings , but they both start with raw , pressed juice from crushed apples . Soft apple cider ( normally just called cider ) is simply the pressed juice , bottled . It is cloudy from suspended apple particles , and turns brown from the oxidation , much as apples themselves do when cut and exposed to air . Hard apple cider is an alcoholic beverage made by allowing soft apple cider to ferment . Apple juice is essentially the squeezed juice from the apples that has been highly filtered to remove the suspended particulates . It is usually pasteurized to have a longer shelf life . UK Usage : Per ElendilTheTall , in the UK , the alcoholic beverage is called cider , and the other products are called simple apple juice . See also : <URL>
According to my local friendly butcher , Gammon is a type of bacon that is specifically from the hind quarters . Bacon is defined as any pork that has been cured through a process of salting , either as a dry-cure or a wet-cure where the meat is either packed in salts or brine respectively . With wet curing , other ingredients can be added to impart other flavours , such as beer or sugars . Typically , rashers are made from the body of the pig with streaky bacon coming from the belly , and back bacon coming from , well , the back ( so the same cut as a pork loin chop ) . Bacon joints are typically made by combining cuts of bacon from the shoulder and collar , whilst the hind quarters are sold as gammon with a premium on price . Traditionally ham referred to cooked gammon , although in modern uses , it is often extended to include other cooked bacon joints , which include moulded meats made from combining cuts together with other additives to help bind them .
According to one farm ( <URL> ) , theirs lasts 7 weeks from the packaging date , and has a " best by " date on it . I doubt this is identical for all sources , but it seems like a decent baseline . As for botulism , I 'm pretty sure what you 've heard was related to keeping peeled garlic unrefrigerated in olive oil , which used to be a common practice , and is dangerous . Here 's the <URL> on the incident that started it , and <URL> has more info on safe handling practices . From my experience , it 'll start to turn slimy and lose its texture and flavor near the end of its shelf life , and you wo n't want to keep using it . But as for health risks , you do n't have much to worry about as long as you 're keeping it in the fridge .
The reasons people still roast whole birds are : Roasting a whole chicken is easier than butterflying it . While it 's not tough to butterfly a chicken many people do n't know how , or do n't want the cleanup It 's less prep time to roast a whole chicken . If you are busy you can have it from the fridge to the oven in less than a minute , while butterflying or jointing it is n't super-quick Aesthetics : some people like the look of a whole chicken on the table
Your typical Tamari is , to my understanding , going to be closer to dark than light soy sauce . So you 'd want light as a second soy sauce . Inside Japan , there are five kinds of soy sauce : Koikuchi , which is your most typical soy sauce Usukuchi , which is lighter because it has fermented rice in it Tamari , which has more soy than wheat and thus is a bit darker Shiro , which has more wheat than soy and thus is a bit lighter Saishikomi , which is " twice-brewed " and thus twice as dark In China , you have two : regular " light " soy sauce , and " dark " , which is the light stuff processed further and aged . Therefore , " sashikomi " is the Japanese equivalent to dark soy sauce , if you want to stick with Japanese classifications . If your recipes are aimed at english-speaking audiences , however , the terms are likely to be used a lot looser and less precisely than in Japan or China . Kikkoman , which is the biggest name brand I 've seen in the US , brews a regular , a Tamari , and a gluten-free ( Tamari can have some gluten in it ) . Therefore , I would normally assume that to an American chef , " dark soy sauce " is Tamari . " Light soy sauce " might mean the low-sodium stuff , or it might mean Shiro or Usukuchi . Your basic unqualified " soy sauce " is Koikuchi .
The microwave is too harsh an environment for this . Pasteurize them in the shell , in a large pot of water on the stove . You must bring the water up to 140 - 150 F ( 60 - 65 C ) for 3 to 5 minutes to pasteurize them . You must not exceed 150 or you will begin to cook the egg . If the eggs are in the water as you heat it then they will closely match the temperature of the surrounding water . Just make sure they are n't resting on the bottom of the pan . If you want to be extra careful you can leave them in longer , as long as you do n't let them get too hot . Alternatively , you can combine the eggs with the milk and heat this slowly on the stove until it reaches a temperature or 140-150 F , maintaining for 3-5 minutes . Update You can also pasteurize in-shell at 135 F ( 57 C ) for for 75 minutes according to this reference : <URL>
The proteins in a fresh egg are too viscous , even when thoroughly beaten , to wash a baked good . The water thins the proteins so you get a nice glaze instead of a layer of scrambled egg . Older eggs have sometimes degraded enough that they do n't need the water but it is easier to always add water than to make a subjective judgement on the state of your egg proteins .
Martha 's Vinyard Magazine suggests that the diamater of the stalks is not directly related to their age as one might suspect : Some might assume thinner spears are younger and therefore more tender . The diameter , however , has more to do with the age of the plant itself and the particular asparagus variety . They go on to cite Cook 's Illustrated , saying : [ T ] hin and thick spears as equally sweet , nutty , and grassy , but ... thicker spears have a slightly better , more tender texture . The reason is that the fiber is somewhat more concentrated in thinner spears . You can peel asparagus if you choose to . Personally , I peel the base of thicker stalks . Mark Bittman recommends peeling from just under the flowers to the base of the stalk on the thicker stalks . Thinner stalks may be easier to saute or grill , and thicker ones more suited to steaming , poaching , and so on , but this is more related to the time it takes them to cook through . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I 'm looking for the online reference , but I remember reading in Cook 's Illustrated that they were able to substitute a bit of gelatin to mimic the mouth-feel of homemade stock . I did find a <URL> recipe that used gelatin . Based on how you described your recipe , I would say that the long cooking of chicken bones is indeed what 's missing . You might get a better result if you roast your chicken breasts and vegetables before cooking them in the broth .
The difference for green onions will be most noticable if you do n't cook them . Instead , slice them up and use them for a garnish over the dish . The white portion of the green onion will still be oniony , but not quite as strong as a raw red onion . Slice them thinly and use for garnish if you really want to bring out the onion qualities of them . If you do n't want it too strong , then add them when you 're cooking . ( and you might not want to slice them as thin ) . The green portion gives a more mild onion taste but also some of the grassy quality that you might get from chives . I treat them like a fresh herb , chop them up , and add in them in the last minute of cooking or I do n't cook them at all . As for substitution ... I 'd only plan to do it if you were cooking for someone who did n't like onions , as they 're milder and come in smaller portions than bulb onions , so it 's easier to control amounts without any waste . ... and I 'd do it if I had them on hand but did n't have bulb onions around . If you 're just looking for a good way to feature the green onions -- grill them . Trim the ends off , clean off any dirt , give them a coat of oil , then toss them on a hot pan or grill . They make a great side dish . Other good uses are to add them into scrambled eggs , green onion pancakes , or press them into naan before cooking it . ... For the white onions , the opposite is true -- they 're generally stronger than red onions . Most people do n't serve it as a raw garnish unless it 's very thinly sliced and used in small amounts . It 's still used raw , but it tends to be blended into other things such as pico de gallo , or guacamole , where the pungency of the onion helps to balance out the sweetness of the tomatoes or richness of the avocado . I 'm having difficulty thinking of a dish where the qualities of the white onion would stand out , though . My only idea is french onion soup , because it just comes out lacking if you make it with sweeter red or yellow onions ... but unless you made them side by side and compared them , I do n't know that you 'd see the difference . You might try cooking them slowly over medium heat until they caramelize ... it 'd let you feature the onions without them being overwhelming , and it brings out some of their more interesting qualities .
My foolproof method is as follows : Weigh out the desired amount of rice - I use 2-3oz per person - and put it in a saucepan . Wash the rice well by filling the pan with cold water , tipping it out , and repeating about 10 times . The more you wash the less the rice sticks together . Put enough water in the pan to cover the rice by about 5-8mm . Leave to soak for 25 minutes until the rice grains have turned opaque white . Put the saucepan over a high heat , uncovered , and bring to a boil . Boil until the water has evaporated and the surface of the rice is dotted with small holes . Turn off the heat . Cover tightly : if the lid is n't a tight fit , place a piece of foil on the pan , then put the lid on . Steam for at least 15 minutes . The beauty of this method is that it does n't matter how long you steam the rice for once it 's past the 15 minute minimum - in fact , the more it steams the better it is , especially if you have added spices or flavourings to the water .
I have just looked in the book " Thai Food " ( by David Thompson ) . Both are very similar . The main difference I can see is that there are souring agents in the red curry ( fish sauce and shrimp paste ) . These are absent in the panaeng which has peanuts as a major ingredient in the paste ( and nutmeg ) . The panaeng is also usually made with beef which is simmered in count milk until tender .
To add to Stephie 's answer , sometimes dairy is incorporated for a variety of reasons . In some cases , like a coffee cake , sour cream or yogurt can account for a good amount of the moisture and fat in the batter . Rich dairy products like cream and sour cream usually lead to very tender baked goods , due to helping to incorporate more fat ( the fact that it 's already emulsified helps too ) . Soured dairy , like yogurt , sour cream , and buttermilk are frequently used so that their acidity will react with baking soda in the recipe for leavening . Finally , yogurt and buttermilk often have stabilizers like guar gum , xanthan gum , and carrageenan . These will retain moisture after baking to help the finished product be more moist . Whether a substitution will work would depend on which functions the dairy ingredient is filling , and which characteristics the substitute matches .
Iceberg Lettuce , as it is also very low in vitamins and minerals like celery and has a good crunch . According to the USDA 's " MyPlate " , 1 cup of iceberg is 1/2 serving vegetables , and 1 stalk of celery is 1/2 serving vegetables , so to get equivalent nutritional value for 2 stalks would take 2 cups shredded . You could add more vitamins and minerals by replacing the celery with something more nutrient dense .
There are really only a few secrets to good fried rice : Day Old <URL> ( Make it the day before , let it cool , place it in the fridge ) This I 'd say is absolutely , the main thing . The texture will NOT be right if you use freshly cooked rice . There will be too much moisture . HEAT ! Your <URL> needs to be hot . You want everything to cook quickly . Cook stuff separately . This is a follow-up from 2 . You want it all to cook very quickly , a crowded pan will hinder that . Cook Meat to 80 % , take it out , cook the other stuff , add the meat back in . Do n't touch it . Unless you have a blazing professional burner , your food needs time against the wok . Put it in , leave it for a bit , mix it some more . Fish Sauce &amp; Chinese Sausage They add great flavour . If it all seems complicated , it really is n't . Use day old rice &amp; give it lots of heat . Here are a couple of recipes that give further detail and have great explanations : <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Rasa Malaysia
end question
start question
What methods are there of getting fresh local meat & produce ?
You can look for a CSA in your area , <URL> : CSAs consist of a system of weekly delivery or pick-up of vegetables and fruit in a vegetable box scheme , sometimes including dairy products and meat . You can use <URL> to try to find one in your area .
What kind of meat is it , maybe pork ? There are many kinds of pathogens in meat . One type are bacteria . They do n't die from cold temperatures ( not even freezing ) , but die from high heat . Unfortunately , heating the meat throughout so it 's hot enough to kill all bacteria will turn it into a shoesole . So , meat is cooked to slightly lower temperatures which are capable of killing most , but not all bacteria . And the surface of the meat comes into contact with the pan , so it gets much hotter than the inside . Because the surface is where the bacteria are ( they came onto the meat after it was butchered ) , they die in the hot pan . But there are other pathogens beside bacteria . One class are parasites . They also die from high heat . But they do n't sit on the surface of the meat , they were living inside the tissue of the animal before it was slaughtered . So , if you bring a contaminated steak to 55 Celsius internal temperature , but accidentally stick your thermometer in a too thin part of the meat - or do n't use a thermometer and hope that you can judge meat doneness by feel - it can happen that a parasite snuggled in the thickest part survives . And some domestic animal parasites can also use the human as a host , causing all kinds of ugly health problems . A prime examples would be trichinosis , a disease caused by a pig parasite . Parasites are rather rare in industrial food production , because there are ways to heal them in the living animal . You almost never get into contact with them , while each piece of meat you buy is teeming with disease-causing bacteria . So parasites are not in the spotlight of food safety , the typical rules are created to protect against bacteria . Given the lack of trichinosis epidemics lately , it seems to work . But if there is a high chance that you get contaminated meat , you can consider freezing the meat . Unlike bacteria , parasites die when frozen solid , and stop being a danger to you . I have n't heard of such a wave of advice in the media , it could be that there was a single high-profile case of parasite illness in your country , or that there has been a slowly growing epidemic . Or also that there always has been some danger due to the way animals are typically held ( your description of eating right away reminds me of a family slaughtering pigs they raised themselves , in which case there is no vet inspecting the meat ) , but that consumer rights groups have started a media campaign to bring the situation into public attention . Beside pork , there is high parasite risk in wild hunted game , as well as many kinds of sea food . Sheep can also carry some , but they are more likely to be in the organ meat , not the muscle ( e.g. liver flukes ) . AFAIK , beef and chicken are not typical hosts to dangerous parasites . Update : As Mischa Arefiev points out , there is a type of tapeworm which lives in beef . Freezing is effective against it too .
Since the original recipe does not say explicitly that the scallops should be cooked from a frozen state , you should thaw them in the refrigerator before making the dish . Do not precook them -- just thaw them , and cook them as per the recipe . You will also want to pat them dry with a paper towel or lint free towel , so that they are as dry as reasonably possible .
The skin is the outer thick orange-coloured cover ; obviously as you 're not told to remove it this would include the pith ( the white fibrous material ) as well . The pips are the seeds inside the fruit : pip noun plural noun : pips 1 . a small hard seed in a fruit . synonyms : seed , stone , pit
Quite the opposite , large ginger rhizomes are more potent both in flavour and aroma , because those compounds take time in the ground to develop and accumulate ... There 's a Chinese proverb : " It 's the older ginger that 's got the punch / heat " , referring to wisdom of the elders / the experienced ... The younger rhizomes have a milder flavour , and a smoother texture ( the older ones are more fibrous ) so are used for pickling in both Chinese and Japanese cuisines ...
Most of the recipes I 've made for Sri Lankan curries typically have pandan , dry curry leaves , fennel , green cardamom , mustard seeds , cloves , cumin , coriander &amp; black peppercorns .
There are several negative effects from over-kneading bread dough : Overheating - if the dough gets too warm , it will ferment too quickly ( or over ferment ) and will therefore lack flavour . Oxidisation - kneading for too long can cause the flour to oxidise and bleach , again impairing flavour . Breaking down - eventually the molecular bonds of the gluten will break , which is obviously not what you want to happen ! The latter two are really only possible with electric mixers , however . Most doughs are ready for fermentation when they reach an internal temperature of 77-81ºF ( 25-27 ° C ) . You can also check the gluten development with the Windowpane Test : pull off a chunk of dough and stretch it with your hands . It should stretch to form a very thin translucent sheet , without tearing .
According to an article about Fugu at <URL> : Some people who 've tried puffer dishes describe it as one of the most sublime flavors in the world . Others , apparently less enthusiastic , or simply more objective , describe fugu meat as a cross between crunchy and chewy , said by the Japanese to go " shiko-shiko " in one 's mouth when absolutely fresh . That 's what some consider the main attraction of the risky meal . But taste is n't everything . Many say that fugu is simply addictive ! According to <URL> : " Long answer : like rubber when raw but like silk when cooked . " At <URL> ( in an indepth article ) , Adam Platt says : Hashimoto 's fugu indeed has a certain clean sashimi quality to it , and a resilient chewiness , but otherwise it 's a letdown . It tastes flavorless and gummy , like a cross between Reichl 's fluke and day-old squid . [ ... ] And then the tingling sensation begins . It starts on my lips and seems to be quickly tracking down the back of my throat . I put down my chopsticks and shift my legs under the table . I bring the tips of my fingers to my mouth and begin touching my lips in a tender , slightly agitated way , like a d dental patient shot full of Novocain . [ ... ] our next course , which is a little helping of deep-fried fugu ribs . The bony ribs ( " These look like hamster ribs , " I tell Shinji ) are hacked in little pieces , tossed in flour , and seasoned with sea salt and a sprinkling of the dried kelp called kombu . The ribs have the nice meaty texture of monkfish , they 're perfectly fried , and they 're delicious . ( This may simply prove that anything tastes good fried , including bony , potentially fatal fish ribs . ) However , I suspect the popularity of fugu , especially in Japan is a complex amalgam of factors including : Pride in cultural heritage , since this is a uniquely Japanese practice , although it is spreading The enjoyment of the feeling of numbness that properly prepared fugu leaves in the mouth , from just the tiniest traces of the toxin Popularity of extremely expensive items , which therefore must be special The art of the presentation , which ( as the dish is very expensive ) is at its highest levels Some people are crazy :-)
The great benefit of brining is that it opens the fibers of the meat and allows the water , and what is dissolved in the water , into the meat . I suggest you convince yourself of this by adding a fragrant herb such as rosemary to a chicken breast brine , and comparing it side-by-side with an unbrined breast . The difference , deep into the meat , will be noticeable . It is not large chunks of the herbs that find their way into the meat , but the oils and dissolved parts . That is why you heat and steep the water before cooling it for brining .
Good question @mfg . I hope I can help a little bit . The basics behind the egg wash are to provide for a couple different thing . These being shine , crispness , and color . Shine The shine is primarily provided by the egg yolk . The higher concentration of yolk the more shine . Crispness This come from the egg whites . The whites make things a little crispy and sometimes can crackle a little bit ( mainly when usually by themselves ) . Color This comes from the fat and protein . Leaving the yoke in along with the shine will add color . You can add water to lighten the color a bit . I find that using the white also dilutes the color a bit but not as much ( but the white also makes it crisp ) . Add cream or milk to get it a little bit darker . Salt I often find people adding salt to an egg wash . I does provide some flavor to the crust , but I have noticed that for some reason ( when using a whole egg ) it does allow it to get a little darker than it would normally . Sugar Like salt it adds flavor ( sweetness ) to the crust . And it will also add some color . Especially if baking at a higher temp and using a raw or brown type sugar . Alcohol I have seen the use of alcohol quite a number of times . From the results I have seen it behaves like water . Although not the the same degree . My guess is that it has to do with how fast the alcohol evaporates . As far as flavor , I ca n't say that it added much at the levels used . I did once definitely get a hint of a bourbon being used in the wash on a pretty plain white loaf . But they did mix in quite a good amount of bourbon to just an egg yolk . That is all I have really used myself or seen . I am sure that you can use other liquids although I do n't know what vinegar would do . Just keep in mind if they are high in fat , protein , or sugar they will add color . Otherwise they will lighten the color . I have also seen melted butter just used as a wash . It adds a nice color and buttery flavor . I have n't seen it added to egg wash but I would assume you could add to egg yolk to get a shine and probably darker color than cream/milk . Another important thing to remember is to beat your wash well when using for a bread coating . Unlike if your just using the was was to seal say a ravioli . If your egg was is spotty not one nice fully incorporated mixture your crust can also be spotty .
Despite the fashion of using " processed " as if it is a derogatory term , and processed foods are dangerous , almost all foods are processed in some way ( s ) . Most of us , for example , do not chew wheat berries directly off the stalks , but prefer them threshed , hulled , ground into flour , and then baked into breads or other foods . What is that , if not processing ? Of course , cooking itself is a form of processing , since most of us no longer eat our meat raw from the carcass . There are a number of common ways that meat is processed , after being butchered , some of which are more extreme than others . Some foods have several of these processes applied . Among the more common are : Cooking Grinding ( as in hamburger , and many sausages ) Curing with salt or other curing agents ( as in bacon ) Canning ( as in the infamous Spam , or Vienna sausages ) Drying or dehydrating ( jerky ) Pickling ( pickled pigs feet ) Smoking ( which is often combined with curing , cooking , or drying , such as Virginia ham ) Freezing Injection of brine or other flavorings or enhancements ( many ham products ) I do n't think there is any universal measure by which you can consider processing good or bad . You have to consider each within the context of the particular food product , and its outcome .
You can eat even shell . Ground shell is used in French <URL> to thicken the soup and make it more flavored .
With flax seeds I like using 1T of seed ( ends up being 2.5 T of powder ) to 3T of water , and use it for thing that are suppose to be light like cake or something that needs a nutty flavor . But with chia seeds I use exactly 1T of powder to 3T of water ( ends up looking like egg whites ) and use it in brownies , cookies and so on . Also chia does n't add flavor like flax does . ** For me chia is definitely stronger . The first time I used a chia egg I thought it was like a flax ( 1T seed = 2.5 T powder ) but I was wrong , my baked good came out very dense in the middle and tasted raw . You can still use a chia but you have to be exact . Also a chia egg will become very thick and gloppy once it 's mixed with water whereas a flax just get gooey .
I looked at the first 8 recipes that came up on a Google search . All but one just said " Dry White Wine " . One said , " dry white wine , such as Sauvignon Blanc " . So , I would say that 's your answer . Any dry white wine will do , perhaps Sauvignon Blanc might be ideal .
If you want something storebought , just get pumpkin puree - it is squash puree , not really even a substitute . Pumpkins are squash , and " pumpkin " is a pretty broad term , covering a lot of winter squash . In fact canned pumpkin is often made with things more similar to butternut squash than what you 'd think of as pumpkin ( jack-o ' - lanterns and all ) . Just make sure you do n't accidentally get some kind of pumpkin pie mix that has spices and maybe other things added . I suppose if you ca n't find that either , you could also look at baby food , since squash is fairly common there . If you really ca n't find anything in the store , though , do n't just give up on the recipe . It really is incredibly easy to make - just cut squash in half , throw in the oven cut side down , bake until it 's soft , scoop it out and mash up a bit . The actual active working time is only a couple minutes , and you 'll probably get much better flavor than you would from canned goods .
For escargots , land snails are used . Most common are the species Helix pomatia , Helix aspersa and Helix lucorum * . There are two restrictions : it should be edible ( problem solved if you work with one of those three ) and it should be large . Larger snails have more flesh to work with . You have to be a bit lucky for this . There 's quite some variation . I think - for the dish that you mean - the snails should still have their house as well . However , I would n't advice you to go into the ' wild ' and pick your own . Just buy them at the supermarket . It 's safer , since snails can have digested toxins that take some time to leave their bodies . The word " escargot " is French for " snail " . You can find different preparations for snails , they would be called " escargots à la ... " with ... being the name of the sauce or preparation . The standard ( at least here ) drops the last part , since it 's the basic preparation ( herb butter with garlic ) . There are other types of snails/slugs that are edible , for instance <URL> are also sold and eaten here , they live in the sea , not on land , but it 's a whole different preparation . * <URL>
I think there 's probably a bigger difference between types of zesters than between brands . No matter what type you choose , look for one that limits how deeply you can cut into the fruit 's peel . You want to get only the colored layer , and as little of the white pith ( the bitter under-layer ) as possible . The most common kind that I 've seen -- a series of little loops at the end of a metal scraper thing ( hard to describe , I guess ) -- are too small in my estimation . They work OK , but they are usually kind of dull , so they release a lot of the oils as you use them , and it takes a long time to get a lot of zest . Some also have a second slot to allow you to cut a fat piece of zest , appropriate for a martini or the like . Even on the fine side , the zest they make is n't really very fine , and might wind up as a texture in the final dish . ( I think of these as more of a bar tool than kitchen tool , and would n't purchase one of these of any brand ) Microplane graters are quite popular for zesting , and they 're what I use the most . They do n't dig deep , and are crazy sharp so they do n't bruise/mash the zest much -- less fragrant oil on the tool , more in the dish . They also work really fast -- it takes very little time to get the zest from an entire orange . The zest produced is very fine and will disappear in most cooking applications . Because they 're sharp it 's easy to grate your fingers by accident , so they require some care in use . There are lots of styles out there , from the classic that looks almost like a wood rasp to ones that look more like a grater . I think these are great to have on hand anyway , since they 're really good with parmesan cheese and other hard items , and they 're killer for zesting . Another option is a standard vegetable peeler . These take bigger slabs of skin off , and take some practice not to cut too deep . If you do cut too deep you can use a sharp paring knife to remove the excess pith from the backside . Kind of a lot of trouble , but with practice you can get good enough that you do n't need the second step . You can get a lot of zest in a hurry this way , but the pieces are huge . You 'd either need to cut them down or only use them in a recipe where you wanted to take the pieces of peel back out before serving . Since you probably already have one of these , this is your most economical option .
It is a combination of a regular convection oven with a microwave , so you have both hot air and microwaves cooking your food . So the advantage is you get the quick interior heating of the microwaves combined with the surface browning from the hot air ; convection just makes that hot air cooking faster and more even .
If you pinch off the basil flowers as they start to grow , the plant will produce more leaves . ( Yes , this is a horticultural answer , but it will help you make more yummy dishes with the leaves . )
Dry rubs are one case that I can think of where dry is specifically necessary , so you can grind them up properly . The main advantage to dry herbs is that they 're available year round . When you 're dealing with winter dishes , dry herbs would 've been the norm to have used at that time . If you are going to substitute , you 'll need to add more ( typically about 3x as much , as the dry is usually more concentrated ) , and you 'll want to add it late in the cooking process , while dry herbs are usually added early . One exception to the rule is bay leaves -- you 'll still need to add them early , and you 'll want to reduce the number .
end question
start question
How long to preheat oven ?
This depends on a lot of things . The idea of preheating is that you want to get all the surfaces inside your oven ( walls , floor , door , racks ) up to the desired cooking temperature . This makes for more even temperatures throughout the oven , and gives a little thermal mass so you do n't lose ALL your heat when you open the door for a few seconds or put something cold in there . Then there 's the question of what you 're putting in the oven . An aluminum sheet with a few room temperature cookies on it wo n't pull the temperature in the oven down like a 25 pound turkey that 's 40F/5C inside . You want to be more careful to do a complete preheat if you 're going to be soaking up a lot of your starting heat . Our oven , which has a large baking stone in the bottom all the time , takes a while to get uniformly up to temperature , even after the oven says it 's preheated , because the stone does n't heat up as fast as the rest of the surfaces . It takes at least 20 minutes after the " I 'm fully heated " beep before the stone is fully up to temp . We have problems with things baking poorly if we do n't preheat for quite a while , but on the upside , if we put a cold roast in or open the door a lot , the temperature in the oven stays pretty high . If your oven is lightweight , flimsy or drafty , it may be as hot as it 's going to get the moment the preheat alert goes off . 45 minutes is probably a lot more preheat than you 'll need in almost any case . In some cases even 15 minutes is more than you need . It really depends on your oven and what you 're putting in .
Dutch oven ( a proper cast iron one , mind you ) Put your dutch oven on the stove top with the lid on , and turn on the heat until it gets hot Place the thing ( s ) to be baked inside ( but not directly touching the sides or bottom ; a little rack or other standoff will be helpful ) Put the lid back on and turn the heat way down Wait . And this is a bit of a problem because it is hard to know the exact temperature , so baking is tricky . This is also how one bakes over a campfire , though there you use coals and can get a reasonably repeatable temperature . Works better with cobbler than cake ( I have seen cakes done this way , but more often I 've seen them messed up ) , but it should do garlic bread just fine . The pure mass of the iron serves to smooth out the uneven heating from the stove . This is also the reason a proper dutch oven has a lip on the lid : so you can put some coals on there to insure the lid stays properly hot too .
<URL> The link states it can be kept uncut for 2-3 weeks in the fridge , while cut pieces can last up to 5 days . I think since it 's a root it should hold up much like a carrot or turnip or other like fleshed vegetable .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
When you want to freeze things so that they do n't stick together , you need to freeze them separately and then combine later . So , for example , if you 're freezing blueberries , you can freeze them on a cookie sheet and then combine them in one bag or container . For chicken , I would n't advise freezing the pieces uncovered ( as you do for blueberries ) . Instead , I would package the pieces in containers that only hold one meal 's worth . You can always defrost more than one package if necessary . This could be a plastic container or wrapped individually in plastic wrap or aluminum foil , or even a zippered plastic bag . Any of these would allow you to unwrap individually and defrost .
Well you 're kinda right about it lasting a long time due to the sugar content . That will help the preserving process to the extreme . However , to be pratical you should be looking at how long the butter fat will survive in the fridge before it starts to take on funky flavours and looses it 's moisture . You 'll be fine in an air tight tub for a month or so but then flavour will suffer . If you freeze it ( it can be done but the quality will really suffer later ) you can get away with 4-6 months before freezer burn kills it . Honestly , I 'd just do smaller batches and enjoy the higher quality product . For what you save on time doing the larger batch , you 'll give up on taste and quality later .
Ok , I 'll play along . ;) The moist , hot environment improves oven spring by transferring heat more rapidly to the dough ( moist air is more thermally conductive than dry air ) , keeping the dough surface from drying out and getting stiff . It improves crust quality by gelatinizing the starches on the surface of the dough , causing them to brown better , and form a more distinct " crust " , rather than just a skin of browner bread . To get more steam in your oven , in addition to the simple methods you noted , spritzing and pans of hot water , you can : Bake inside a vessel like a dutch oven preheated in the oven . Gives both thermal mass for browning , and traps naturally produced steam around the bread . Remove the lid for the last 10 minutes of baking . Cover the baking bread with a large bowl or pan for the first 10-15 minutes of the bake to trap naturally released steam . Use one of several commercial steam injection kits ( most look like a steam cleaner that allows you to blast some steam manually into the oven when loading ) . Build your own steam injector , like <URL> . The gist is that they use a pressure cooker with a flexible metal hose attached to an output port and directed into the oven . Boiling water in the pressure cooker produces steam . Pre-steaming the oven for 10 minutes before baking and for the first portion of the bake produces impressive results . In addition to getting more steam in , you can improve the crust and oven spring by using delayed or cold fermentation , which creates more sugars ( better browning ) , and more extensible dough ( better oven spring ) .
I would cook the Brie at that same temperature for 30-35 minutes and it should be okay . Alternatively , you could cook the roast fully , remove it from the oven , tent it with foil and then cook the Brie . The meat can rest while the Brie is cooking and being eaten . Prior to slicing the roast , heat up the pan drippings to a sizzling temp and baste to ensure a crispy crust . But if the appetizer course happens to last for 20-30 minutes , then the roast will have been resting for 40-50 minutes and could lose too much internal heat .
15-20 seconds seems to be all it needs for me , and then scoop them up and shock them in iced water to stop them cooking .
As with all can goods , as long as the can has no physical defects ( meaning swollen or dented , ectera ) , the contents should still be good . The date on the outside is mainly a best by date , after which a company will no longer vouch for the contents contained therein .
Yes ! Cooking with extreme heat is the killer of nutrients in vegetables . Therefore in traditional stir frying , timing is important . The goal is to coat all the vegetables with oil and searing their outer surface and not allowing the heat to transfer into the core of the vegetables . I personally do not like to cook with that kind of a heat , it is just too violent . Instead , I let the vegetable to stay in room temperature and cook them with medium heat , in a regular non-stick pan . However , I stop cooking them while they are still firm , lightly golden and vibrant .
I sometimes steam asparagus before sautéing on a high heat with some lemon juice to get some caramelization on the outside of the asparagus . You could adapt this idea to the grill by sealing the asparagus in tin foil with a little water and steaming for four minutes ( for finger thick spears ) . Then give them a bit of colour by placing them directly over the grill for a minute .
Make sure food does n't stay in the very bottom part for long enough to burn on . The flared sides and narrow bottom of these pans tend to concentrate heat at the bottom , and burn on food more easily than flat-bottom saucepans and frying pans . Once food is burned on , there is no way to scrub it off without also removing the nonstick coating . It only takes one batch of fried rice or browned onions to permanently wreck the pan . Finally , stir-frying involves a lot of vigorous motion with utensils , which rapidly wears out nonstick layers . With nonstick woks , it is simply a matter of time before they are ruined . My suggestion is to replace your teflon wok and kadhai with ( respectively ) carbon steel and cast-iron equivalents at the earliest convenience . Woks and kadhais are designed for high-flame cooking , and if you reduce the heat to protect cookware , then the food wo n't get browned fully . With these materials you can use full heat without ruining pans or releasing toxic chemicals ( from overheated Teflon ) . Cleanup is simple : just rinse out , scrape off burnt bits , wipe them down with a paper towel , and season with oil . Finally , wooden or silicone rubber utensils are the best for a nonstick wok or kadhai ; they wo n't scrape off the nonstick layer unless used very roughly , andthey can stand the heat without melting . Normal plastics ( particularly polyethylene or polypropylene ) tend to melt , and metal will scrape up the nonstick coating .
food is safe so long as the Crockpot is on , and functioning correctly . The food will maintain a simmer as long as its on , which is too hot for bacteria .
According to <URL> : Chestnut storage is not the same as most nuts . Fresh chestnuts should be stored like carrots . Chestnuts are comprised of about 40-50 % water and thus if not stored properly , they will spoil . Therefore , chestnuts should be stored with great care and attention . The ideal storage conditions for chestnuts are 33-35 degrees Fahrenheit and 85-90 % humidity . We recommend storing chestnuts in covered containers in the coldest part of the refrigerator . Stored properly in the refrigerator , chestnuts can have a shelf life of approximately 2-3 weeks . If you plan to use the chestnuts soon after receiving them , simply place them in a covered container in the coldest part of the refrigerator . The colder , the better . Otherwise , they recommend freezing them ( preferably par-cooked ) , and provide information at the link above . <URL> offers the following information about storing chestnuts , to prevent molding to which they indicate the chestnuts are susceptible due to their high water content : Do not let fresch chestnuts freeze and thaw ( except if you are freezing for a purpose ) Never store chestnuts in a sealed plastic bag ( except dried or frozen ) Keep chestnuts refrigerated unless drying or sweetening the chestnuts If black molds have entered into the chestnut kernel , do not eat the chestnut Chestnuts can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 to 3 weeks Cooked chestnuts must also be refrigerated if not consumed right away Never bathe the chestnuts in plain water - this causes mold spores to be transferred to all the chestnuts passing though the bath water - instead , wash in clean running tap water Try to purchase fresh chestnuts close to the time you want to eat them
In theory the elements could last 10 's of years , there is nothing in typical electric element design that limits their life . I would expect modern oven elements to last at least ten years with daily use They may fail prematurely due to damage ( being knocked ) in the oven while hot , from surface oxidation due to improper cleaning , or because of slight manufacturing faults
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
I 've done it before without problems . Even if they 're peanut butter &amp; jelly ( something that 's typically stored in the fridge ) , it has so much sugar in it that it 's inhospitable to microbes . If you want to play it extra safe , and the sandiwiches wo n't be easten shortly after you leave , you could place them in the freezer and then let them thaw in your bag . ... all that being said , if you 're in the US , the TSA considers peanut butter to be a gel , so wo n't let you fly with a container of it . I have no idea what their rules are in sandwich form . ( I 've never tried it , as I typically fly w / cold cut sandwiches , and just take them straight from the fridge before I go ) .
You can do a low temperature cook on your ribs the same way you would do your pork shoulders . It 's just the cooking times are shorter , that 's all . Set your oven to 250-275F , and roast those ribs until they 're done . I 've had beef ribs done in as few as 3-4 hours , but as many as 5 . Optionally , you can foil your ribs about halfway into your cook , with some liquid in the foil pack . Just be aware that they 'll cook faster if they 're foiled . And depending on your preference , you may want to take them out of the foil to finish them .
If you whisk very cold cream in a very cold bowl , and keep it very cold , it should hold for about 3-4 hours . Longer than that and it can start to separate .
end question
start question
Do leeks need to be softened ?
When cooking in a slow cooker , you do not have to precook the leeks . I made a potato leek soup not too long ago that called for throwing everything in the pot and it came out great . The only thing I cooked before hand was the bacon , rendering out much of the fat and giving the nice golden brown and crispy bits to sprinkle on top . You CAN precook anything to help reduce the cook time and I always sear meat , but unless you are going to caramelize the leeks , you will not notice any difference in flavor or texture . As for the pureeing part , you want to be careful pureeing potatoes as they can turn into a nasty gluey mess . Just keep it to a minimum or use a food mill and you should be fine . I typically just use a potato masher and leave my soup a little on the chunky side .
Flouring the beef does two things : It facilitates the development of a crust on the outside of the meat that is brown and flavorful ; It contributes to the development of the sauce , as the starch will dissolve off of the meat into the sauce , where it will swell at about 180 F , helping to thicken the sauce . In this particular recipe , the flour is the only source of thickening , so it is being used for both purposes , but mostly for the second , where it is essentially creating a roux as your brown the beef , because you are also cooking the flour in the olive oil . In this recipe , omitting it would give you a much thinner sauce .
Basically , when recipies call for softened butter , they use the creaming method ; the sugar and butter are mixed together in such a way that the sugar cuts little air bubbles into the butter . These little bubbles can add some extra puff to the cookies . If you melt the butter first , not only do you not have those air bubbles , but there 's water in butter , so you 'll end up getting some gluten development when you mix in the flour and make a chewy cookie ... but more importatly , without the fat being ( near ) solid , the cookie will slump a lot more , and spread out before it cooks ( assuming you have n't otherwise adjusted the recipe to compensate ) . There are cookie recipes that call for melted butter ; <URL> ; the " chewy " cookie uses melted butter .
Unless there is local regulation that requires labelling of items unsafe for raw consumption , the only 100 % sure way would be to ask the manufacturer . However , a non-perishable sauce being unsafe without being boiled , but safe if doing so ( just reheating will not matter much anyway ! ) , would be an odd enough ingredient that you could expect a warning on the label . If there was a severe risk of microbial problems , that would either spoil the sauce right in the bottle , or make it unsafe in a way that heat will not fix . Non-perishable but unsafe raw is more typical of DRY goods , since they can perfectly well harbor spores or small amount of bacteria without actively spoiling .
I ca n't give a specific temperature , as there 's issues : The sharpness is a chemical reaction which mix when the garlic cells are damaged . Cooking the garlic before damaging the cells will convert the chemicals before they 've had a chance to react . Cooking the garlic after the chemical reaction will also remove the sharpness . I 've never tried taking the temperature of garlic as it 's cooking Now , if you 're cooking the garlic cloves ahead of time ( I roast a couple of bulbs at a time , then squeeze out the cloves into small jar and keep it in the fridge ) . It 'll take 30min to an hour , depending on what temperature you 're roasting at ( 350-400F ; I 'll throw it in with something else ... not worth heating the oven just for garlic ) If cooking after you 've cut it , it 'll only take a quick saute as you have more surface area ( maybe 1 to 2 min , depending on pan temp ) -- but be careful , as overcooking garlic will burn it , which is just nasty . And do n't do it in a dry pan , unless you 're planning on ruining your dinner . When it 's golden , you 're done ... do n't let it get to brown , as brown is that stage right before black and time to clean the pan before starting again . Also , it seems counter-intuitive , but finely minced garlic is more potent than coarsely chopped garlic , as you 're doing more damage to the garlic . It wo n't help in this particular case , but in many dishes that just want the garlic flavor without being overpowering will use more garlic , but slice it rather than mincing , saute it in olive oil , then remove the garlic pieces , and use the garlic-infused oil for the dish . ... So , anyway , not not exactly answer the questions ... I 'd go with low and slow cooking ... specific temperatures are going to lead to fast cooking garlic , which gets you burnt garlic and ruined dishes . In dishes where you can , infuse the oil , then remove the garlic . And if you really have to , there 's always garlic powder .
The original pasta recipes of old were simply wheat and water . Eggs or oil ( the two most popular " water substitutes " in pasta recipes ) are not at all necessary to make pasta dough , but they will have an impact on how the dough turns out . Now , it 's hard to give a firm " this is the best way to do it " answer , because everyone has their own preferences on pasta doughs , but you will tend to find that egg-based pastas are a litte more " creamy " than water-based ones . In my experience , they work fairly well for rolling and cutting , but seem to be a little to " sticky " when extruding . When I 've tried it , the dough has had some issues with sticking to the various extruder plates , causing the pasta to tear . Now , I have not tried it myself , but I 've heard that water-based pasta doughs to much better with extruders/presses , because you can control that " stickiness " a little better and make a slightly drier dough , which comes out much more smoothly . I 've been meaning to try it myself , but have not gotten around to it yet ( I really love the flavor of egg pastas , so I tend to just make those and cut them , instead :) ) .
It does n't sound like you 're doing anything wrong . I 've found risotto to be one of those recipes that can vary up to 50 % ( usually less ) from what the author calls for and still turn out great . I 've even used recipes that call for " 2-4 " cups of broth . You may be overcooking it though , <URL> . It 's not uncommon for people to overcook this until you have a mushy risotto .
I do n't think so . ( I also assume that you are talking about dry red wines . ) You let the wine breathe to allow 1 ) things that need to evaporate to leave , 2 ) some air to be dissolved in wine . Which is why wine tastes so different before and after you allow it to breathe . However , when you put the cork back and open the bottle again in a day or two , or even a week , the processes that ages wine for months and years does not have enough time to " unbreathe " the liquid ( consume all oxygen and replenish the substances that evaporate during breathing ) . Which is why I pour immediately from a previously opened bottle and let the wine stay in wineglass for a few minutes .
I 've never heard of milk being used to season a pan and so I am a little skeptical of it . Pan seasoning is always done with fat that is heated until it polymerizes . This creates a very hard non-stick surface that makes cooking easier and protects the pan from rust . See this question for more about how to season your pan : <URL> See the article linked in one of the answers : <URL> This process , while slightly more labor intensive , produces the best seasonings I 've ever seen .
Jaggery does n't require any kind of soaking . It 's usually added either while sautéing or if the dish is gravy based , while its boiling . Jaggery usually softens up when heated and gradually <URL> with other ingredients just as salt or sugar would . The hard <URL> of jaggery are difficult to break into pieces and its easier to grate it .
My opinion - I have n't done rigorous testing : Canning softens the interior of the peach but when I have ( in my laziness ) left the skins on they stay tough and quite unpleasant tasting . I doubt it has any effect on the longevity of the product but it would make it a little less pleasant and versatile .
Absolutely , go ahead and use it . I always ignore the " white and light green parts " instruction anyway , and use the leek up until the point where it feels dried out instead of firm and fleshy -- well into the dark green parts -- and it 's always delicious , even when cooked for significantly less than several hours .
It 's not drastically important in making it workable , it 's more important in the texture of the finished result . When you roll out pastry dough , you are created interleaving layers of fat and the flour/water mix . When you cook it , the fat melts , leaving pockets in the dough , causing it to form flaky layers . This results in a crisp , light pastry . For this to happen , the fat must remain as solid as possible until cooking . If the fat melts and blends with the flour and water before cooking , you will have a dense , cardboard-like pastry . Also , warm pastry dough tends to become sticky and hard to work with .
Draining the juice , refilling the jar with oil and then storing to reduce the acidity wo n't work because : Acid and lye can be diluted only with water or liquids like water ( if I remember correctly , ethanol will also work ) but not oil . You might run into the risk of botulism . ( Maybe not since the mushrooms are sour . If you do n't measure the pH you ca n't be sure ) . The only thing you can do is to soak the portion of mushrooms you intend to eat in water before eating . Replacing the brine with water of the whole jar beforehand to lower the pH will shorten the shelf life significantly .
Yes , you could certainly reconstitute evaporated milk by adding water . The outcome would give you similar but not identical results as fresh milk , due to the change in flavor the milk underwent while being cooked down to the evaporated state : it will retain the slightly cooked , caramelized flavor . This may or many not have a significant effect on a given recipe . Milk also freezes , and still is suitable for most cooking purposes , should you choose to do so . Finally , if you use milk very rarely , unless you are making a dairy dominated recipe like custard or cream soup , you may not have to use milk at all . Water or another liquid might perform similarly or well enough -- it depends on the specific application .
It 's not so much the taste as the texture . If they have n't been sauted first , the onions stay relatively crunchy during the rest of the cooking . The same is true of the garlic , but you 'd usually have cut the garlic into much smaller pieces so it does n't take as long to soften up , hence kicking the onion off first and adding the garlic a bit later .
Canned beans are already cooked , so if you want the same texture ... yes . Soak and then cook your beans until they are just tender .
The general answer is that you use a <URL> if you want the common rectangular loaf shape ( it 's good for slicing for toast and sandwiches ) , and otherwise you do n't need one . For example , the link you gave for french bread completely describes how to shape and bake the loaf . There 's no wrapping in foil or anything ; you coax it into that shape , and it 's flexible and stretchy but wo n't spread out or anything . I 'm not sure why it refers to a " baking vessel " , implying that it 's something that contains the loaf . All you need is a flat baking sheet . Once you 've made bread dough this should be pretty obvious - it 's not a big wet mess , it 's something with structure that you can work with and shape . It 's pretty much the same with all other shapes of loaves - you get them into the general shape , toss them on a baking sheet , and bake them . You can make small circular rolls , small oblong rolls , big circular loaves , big oblong loaves , whatever suits you . There are certainly traditional shapes for some breads , and you should probably follow recipes , since baking times are of course affected by size , but the general principle remains the same - you shape it how you want it .
If your jam has at least 1:1 ratio ( 1 kg of sugar per kg of fruit ) or more , you do not have to can it . Then it is so overwhelmingly sweet that bacteria can not live in it . If the jam has less sugar ( 1:2 are popular , 1:3 are found sometimes ) , then you have to either can it , or keep it in the fridge and consume it within a few days , similar to any other cooked food . Else , you are colonizing bacteria in your jam , and at some point , some of them will happen to be pathogenic and cause some unpleasant disease in whoever eats the jam . Canning is a process in which the jam is closed against any new bacteria ( that 's why you have to close the jar hermetically ) and then heated enough that most old bacteria are killed . After canning , you can keep the closed jars at room temperature without any new bacteria developing .
Just to clarify , the mortar is the bowl and the pestle is the rod . I have n't ever seen a grooved pestle , but the grooves on a mortar will wear off with use . The grooves are useful for holding seeds and the like in place while grinding , but they are not strictly necessary . Spices can actually be ground finer in a smooth mortar than they can with a grooved one since the particles ca n't get caught in the ridges , however the initial grinding and tapping may take slightly longer to get started as you chase things like seeds around the bowl a little . The rough surface of the granite alone is enough , just adjust your technique as it wears more .
end question
start question
Do you have to refrigerate Pickles ?
Traditional fermented pickles were kept in barrels , but they 're not the kind that you buy in a big jar at Costco . Those pickles have been briefly cooked in a brine , and should be refrigerated after you open the jar . The salt and vinegar should keep them safe for a while , but they will likely go bad at room temperature before you finish eating the whole jar . As an anecdotal note , an office I used to work in kept one of these large jars of pickles around . After being open for a few years , they were clearly spoiled , and nobody would touch them .
I found <URL> , image below . Also , youtube has <URL> . <URL> Click on the image for a slightly easier to read version , but <URL> version is much clearer .
The reason for doing delayed fermentation in the fridge is that the yeast development is slowed down , while still allowing the enzymes that naturally occur in the flour to do their work ( converting starches to sugars , making a more flavorful dough ) . The risk of doing it on the counter instead of the fridge is that the enzymes are working AND the yeast is working , which can over-leaven the bread , and they 'll eat up the sugars you are trying to create with enzymes . Over-leavened bread is n't ideal , but it is n't the end of the world either . There is a lot to learn about bread baking if you want to really excel at it , but " just bake it , it 'll be fine " is always present as you experiment - glad the loaf turned out well ! " No-Knead " bread is a great introduction to " rustic " doughs ( very high water content ) , and to cold fermentation . Cold fermentation is about the best thing you can do for your bread as a home baker , whether or not you are using the no-knead recipe - I cold ferment nearly everything I bake . If you want to learn more about the process and jump off the deep end , Peter Reinhart 's book " The Bread Baker 's Apprentice " is a great place to start . It is detailed without being pedantic , simple without being over-simplified , and oriented for the home baker without forgetting the reasons that professionals do things the way they do .
Honestly , do n't grill . Do n't run away ! Hamburgers were originally cooked in pans , not on grills . One of the reasons for this is thta with grilling you lose any fat and moisture that comes out of the burger . So I use Heston Blumenthal 's method now . While I tend to ignore the preparation elements ( I have neither the time nor the money to hand-grind my burgers with a specific ratio of this cut to that cut to the other cut ) , the cooking method is flawless : Make your burgers . Over very low heat , place a pan with just a little oil ( or bacon/duck fat , which is lovely ) . introduce burgers to pan . As soon as they release easily from the surface , flip . Thirty seconds later , flip . Repeat until cooked through . ( fifteen to twentyish minutes ) . This will give you the juiciest , most tender burgers you have ever had in your life . I promise . Essentially what you 're doing is basting the burgers in their own fat . Alternatively , if you have an immersion circulator , cook your burgers sous vide and then just mark on the grill when done . I 've had burgers done this way and they are excellent . Burgers will flare on the grill -- that 's all the fat ( and therefore flavour ) being squeezed out by the action of cooking and burning away .
Unless you freeze them yourself and do n't wash them first , no , you should not need to wash commercially processed frozen vegetables . Part of the process for freezing includes cleaning/trimming preparing the vegetables . Washing is unnecessary . Info <URL> : The actual process of freezing a food item varies somewhat depending on what is to be frozen . Peas are the most common frozen vegetable , having virtually replaced fresh peas in the American supermarket . The pea process is typical for many vegetables . A typical process for a frozen entrée follows . Picking and washing 2 The peas may be picked by hand or automatically . Then , a machine called a viner removes them from their shells . If the processing plant is adjacent to the fields , the peas are carted there . If truck transport is necessary , they are cooled with ice water and then packed in ice for transport . At the plant , the peas are dumped into beds and sprayed with water to remove dust and dirt .
I recommend a dedicated , rotary style coffee grinder for home spice grinding . Whole spices last longer , usually taste better , and are often less expensive than pre-ground . In many food cultures , whole spices are often toasted whole , then ground . It makes a big difference for not a lot of effort . I picked up a rotary style <URL> for $ 3 at a thrift store . I use it to grind all kinds of spices . It never needs to be washed . If it starts to taste like last weeks spices , I just grind up some rice and shake it out . It works great , I 've ground spices in the same grinder for 5 years .
There 's no reason to peel besides the aesthetics of it . There 's no major flavor or nutritional difference either way . If the ginger is going to be seen then peel it , if not do n't bother . The best way to peel ginger is to use the edge of a small spoon to rub it off , it works really well , takes seconds , and does n't waste as much as using a knife .
I mostly agree with GdD 's answer , but I 'll add a couple more comments . This may be an obvious answer , but I 'd generally follow the recommendation on the specific bottle . Some sauces will clearly state " refrigerate after opening , " and others wo n't . The Frank 's FAQ <URL> is an example of these sorts of instructions : two specific products recommend refrigeration , but in other cases for Frank 's hot sauces it is n't required ( " but doing so will keep the product fresher for a longer period of time " ) . I 've also seen an occasional product that said refrigeration " recommended " or something on the package . I 'd generally assume that if a manufacturer bothers to say something about refrigeration , it 's a good idea to do it . Sometimes it may be for food safety , but in other cases it may just be a product with ingredients that will lose flavor or degrade rapidly at room temperature . Most hot sauces wo n't degrade noticeably at room temperature even over a period of several months , and many will be stable for a couple years . Others will change flavors slowly over time at room temperature , but not necessarily in a negative way . ( Some sauces are deliberately " aged " or fermented at room temperature for periods from a week to several years , and sometimes these processes will continue to change the product even after it is bottled . Some sauces will undergo natural browning reactions at room temperature as well , which can alter flavor . I know some people who actually prefer hot sauce this way , though I 'm personally skeptical . ) If there 's a " best before " date on your sauce and no instruction to refrigerate , you can probably assume the sauce is supposed to maintain quality at least that long without refrigeration . However , that does n't guarantee that it will stay exactly the same over that period . As GdD said , refrigeration will almost always keep the sauce more stable .
Beans freeze marvelously . I put mine in freezer bags and lay them flat so they freeze quickly and are easier to thaw . They are very sturdy little nuggets of joy and hold up well to canning or freezing without getting mushy . Different beans behave differently . Pintos soften quickly and do n't have much of a skin . Black beans keep their shape and skin a lot longer . Kidney beans are in the middle - if you boil them too long they will mash but they are a lot sturdier than pintos .
It needs very even heat to cook through without burning ( underneath if you cook it on the hob ) . presumably if you cook it on the hob you need to use a bain marie and for individual ramekins this is quite specialised and large . In the oven you can just use a roasting tin for your bain marie for several ramekins .
The canning process makes food safe : existing bacteria and fungi are killed , the intrusion of new pathogens is prevented by sealing the container . ( More e.g. <URL> . ) As soon as you open the can or jar , its contents are exposed to the surrounding air which will contain bacteria and fungal spores . Some of those will happily grow feeding on the food they land on . Refrigerating slows down their metabolism , meaning they ca n't reach dangerous numbers within the recommended storage time after opening . For more info on storing food , see our canonical posts <URL> and on how long quickly-spoiling food can be <URL> .
Quinoa naturally contains a bitter compound on the outside of the seed . Usually you have to rinse the quinoa to remove the bitterness but most commercial quinoa seems to have already been rinsed . So , I no longer rinse my quinoa . If you have time , it 's nice to heat a pan and add the quinoa and toast it a little ( for a nutty flavor and fluffier texture ) , then add water and salt . I typically bring the water to a boil ( 2 cups water to 1 cup quinoa plus 1/4 tsp salt ) , cover and reduce the heat to a simmer for 10-20 minutes ( or until the little tails release ) . Lately I 've found that using a rice cooker is a no-fuss way to prepare quinoa . I usually just do quinoa , water and sea salt but you can add spices while cooking it if you want to enhance the flavor . I would add vegetables afterwards . Quinoa is so quick-cooking I would n't see the need for a pressure cooker .
Moisten your hands with a clean , damp towel . This helps the rice not stick . Look at any sushi bar ; the chef will be frequently moistening their hands on such a towel .
Do n't bother soaking them . Dried hardwood does n't readily soak up water , so for this to work you 'll have to either soak for a rather long time or start with green wood ... but if you 're using green wood then you do n't need to soak it . For good , consistent smoke , you want to control heat and airflow : <URL> , you can control heat by simply moving the chips away from the coals . If the design of your BBQ allows , you can do as he suggests ( horizontal separation ) ; otherwise , try placing the chips in a pan above the coals . For airflow , you can adjust the vents on your BBQ - if you 're getting flair-ups with the lid on , chances are you 're letting too much air through . You can also limit airflow to the chips themselves by wrapping them in a packet fashioned from sturdy aluminum foil with holes punched in it ( but you 'll still want to separate them from the coals , or you 'll just burn through the foil and be back where you started ) .
Traditional fermented pickles were kept in barrels , but they 're not the kind that you buy in a big jar at Costco . Those pickles have been briefly cooked in a brine , and should be refrigerated after you open the jar . The salt and vinegar should keep them safe for a while , but they will likely go bad at room temperature before you finish eating the whole jar . As an anecdotal note , an office I used to work in kept one of these large jars of pickles around . After being open for a few years , they were clearly spoiled , and nobody would touch them .
Two hours is on the borderline , so you will have to assess your risk tolerance . No harm will come to your cookies by refrigerating the dough ; in fact , the later trays may actually be superior due to the additional time hydrating the starches . Baking cold dough will only trivially change the baking time . I would probably err on the side of caution and put the dough in the refrigerator . One thing that can speed up your tray recycle time is to cool the tray with running water on the back side , so that you can reuse it right away without waiting for it to cool . You can also pre-scoop cookies onto a plate , which makes moving them on to the tray much faster . You can even refrigerate or freeze these pre-scooped cookies .
You could use oil , but I do n't think it 's worth it ; realize that you 're going to be using additional energy for obtaining , cleaning , and disposal of it . Regarding using a broth with a porous bag , well , that is n't sous vide . That 's more akin to a slow-cooker . The whole point of sous vide is the airtight barrier between food and heat . Update Oil does not have a higher thermal mass than water . Ammonia does , but I 'd suggest avoiding that . ;) Source : <URL>
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
Even with a whole bulb , break it into cloves . Put clove ( s ) on a cutting board . I usually cut off the root end of each clove . Lay a large chef 's knife flat on the clove , then smack the knife to crush the clove . This breaks the skin of the clove and makes it much easier to peel .
After extended pressure cooking ( or any liquid cooking , for that matter ) the vegetables ' cell walls ( composed primarily of flavorless <URL> ) have broken down to the point where they 're barely holding together , and are basically mush . Most of the flavor and nutrients contained within those cells has escaped into the liquid at that point . There might be a bit left in the solids to extract , but very little practical way to do so . It 's probably more accurate to say that the vegetables have given up enough that they 're unpalatable . You could eat them , but they would n't be anywhere as pleasant as fresh vegetables , and would offer little nutrition separate from the broth itself . I suppose you could puree them ( though you 'd be turning flavorless , starchy mush into smoother flavorless , starchy mush ) but they have little culinary value left . At most they would be filling , but probably unpleasant to eat . On the other hand , if you look outside of culinary applications , they make great compost .
end question
start question
Does cooking with solar cookers preserve the nutrients in food ?
Also does it modify or make the food more nutritious with solar cooker . Not more than any other kind of similar cooking by radiant heat , like baking . There is simply no mechanism by which that could happen . Let 's examine some claims I found from Google : from <URL> Solar cooking does n't use smoke that can contain carcinogens or microwaves that expose your food to potentially dangerous radio waves . An electric stove produces no smoke ( if you do n't burn the food ) , and natural gas produces very little smoke . Were there smoke emitted by the stove , the area around it would be covered in soot , and the flame would be yellow from the carbon ( the main component of soot and smoke ) heated to incandescence in the flame . Further , the biggest cancer risk from smoked foods is not the smoke , but the <URL> frequently used to cure them . If microwaves emit dangerous radio waves , the sun emits far more . That 's why it 's so bright , and so hot . I suppose you could be harmed by the microwave 's radio waves if you manage to turn it on without shutting the door . Then again , you can cook your hand in a solar cooker , too . Or a stove . Come to think of it , cooking involves potentially dangerous heat . Huh . Also : <URL> ( summary : no more than any other cooking ) Plus , when you cook in a solar appliance , the nutrients stay in the food and do n't leach out . That 's because you do n't use water in solar cooking . And , the temperatures in a solar oven are moderate -- around 325 F -- so nutrients are n't destroyed during cooking at a high temperature like on a grill or over an open flame . This is also true of many other methods of preparing foods : baking , grilling , microwaving , frying and , do n't involve water . 325 F is not an unusual temperature for baking , and most other methods can be performed gently , if desired . To summarize : there may be benefits of solar cooking ( a big one : it requires no fuel ) , but nutrition is not one of them . There 's no way sunlight can add more nutrition to food that was n't there to begin . Any nutritional benefits are not as much from solar cooking specifically as they are from not cooking by some less nutritional method . For example , any cooking method that is not boiling will not have the possibility of dissolving some of the food 's nutrition .
I posted this question in a hurry ( because as you can imagine ) , there was a lot of anxiety concerning whether it was safe to have dinner or not . It turns out that this ham is not safe ; I will quote the USDA : The plastic bone guard covering the exposed bone is used to keep the bone from breaking the outer wrap . If left on the meat during cooking , a 325 or 350 ° F oven temperature may not melt the plastic but still give off an abnormal chemical odor or taste . Cutting away the meat around the exposed area will not necessarily solve this potential food safety problem because the penetration of the chemical into the meat will be unknown . If meat is cooked in a closed container , the chemicals may penetrate the entire piece of meat . USDA advises not to eat the ham ; discard it . Source : <URL> Quite a disappointment unfortunately .
I do n't believe you would want to try to leaven bread with beer only , though you could certainly use it as a flavoring . First , the amount of yeast still present in a brewed batch of beer is very low . Beers that have been <URL> ( or bottle conditioned ) will have more than others but , particularly with high gravity beers ( beers with a lot of alcohol ) , a lot of the yeast has died due to the alcohol content or been removed by the manufacturer to clarify the brew ( yeasts make beer cloudy ) . Plus , beer yeast and bread yeast are very different things : From the info <URL> : Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce different proportions of carbon dioxide and alcohol . Baker 's yeast is a blend of several strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chosen for their flavor and ability to make carbon dioxide , which causes bread to rise . Brewer 's yeast is made of strains chosen for their alcohol-producing ability and tends to have a bitter flavor . Brewer 's yeast is considered an inactive yeast while baker 's yeast is an active yeast . In an active yeast the yeast cells are still alive , whereas they are killed in the process of making inactive yeasts , like brewer 's yeast . Brewer 's yeast is used to brew homemade wines and beers , while baker 's yeast makes bread rise . You ca n't brew alcohol with baker 's yeast and you ca n't leaven bread with brewer 's yeast .
Stretch and fold should be done in both directions . One stretch and fold , in most techniques that I read , is stretching like you stay , folding , then rotating 90 degrees and repeating . You can see an excellent example of stretch and fold in <URL> and <URL> . Where they do it and then turn it - that 's one stretch and fold .
Since I 'm not an expert in Indian cuisine , I ca n't say this for certain , but I agree with the comments so far that this seems basically equivalent to the separation of the oil from the curry . To my mind , the wording makes perfect sense , because in some cases with a lot of oil/butter , you can get separation happening early on the pan 's edges . Oil tends to float on top , and usually the center of a pan is heated more strongly over a burner . Thus , you tend to get boiling/bubbling in the center , which tends to push any floating oil toward the edges . But these recipes are not looking for that small amount of oil along the edge ( which , depending on stirring and the thickness of the curry , can stay there through much of the cooking process ) . They are specifically waiting for the time when separation increases and fat appears floating on the surface even away from the edges of the pan .
I 've successfully frozen yuzu ( a Japanese citrus fruit slightly similar to lemon or grapefruit ) zest for two or three months without much damage ; the flavor is n't perfect , but it 's usable as long as you do n't get serious freezer burn . I 've kept it in a small Rubbermaid container . There is a potential problem because citrus oils can damage certain types of plastic over time , but this did n't affect me ; however , plastic bags wo n't work so well .
It 's really no different from cooking something on a stove : if you have no liquid at all , things are probably going to start getting too hot , sticking on the bottom , and maybe burning . As long as there 's some liquid , you 'll be fine . The important thing is to add enough ; if you keep having to open it to add more , it wo n't stay hot . This is basically the minimum level : enough that it wo n't boil dry in an hour or so . If you 're cooking something really simple like a piece of meat , using too much water just provides more water for the flavor to get diluted into . This is precisely what the first page you linked to says : if it 's not full enough , it might all boil off . The writer is just way off about quantities . I suspect his cooker 's lid does n't fit well , or he 's unnecessarily cooking on high . I do n't think my slow cooker would boil dry from half full in 8 hours on low , and there 's no reason to put it on high if I 'm cooking that long . The recipe at the second link is n't exactly empty - a can of cranberry sauce will provide a good amount of liquid . It also might not be a great recipe . On that note , I might suggest you look for more authoritative recipes . Perhaps check out a slow cooker cookbook from your library ( these tend to be pretty common ) to get an idea of the kinds of things you can do . ( Of course , if all you want is a plain piece of meat , I guess you do n't need much . )
I 'm guessing that you should be able to simply add it wherever you would add some sort of grain or flour . The <URL> article mentions : Other uses include gluten-free baking , where ground psyllium seed husks bind moisture and help make the bread less crumbly . If you add some to your Nutraloaf , if it 's enough to have an effect , it 'll help it bind together and absorb some moisture . You might have to add some more liquid to cancel that out , if you find that the result ends up too dry , but otherwise it should be fine . Cooking is n't going to destroy the fiber . I 'd also note that you do n't necessarily have to go all-out on the fiber : there 's plenty in other grains , too , like oats . You might decide that you simply like it better with a different fiber - justkt suggested a few in the comments ; thanks ! And I know you 're not exactly looking for variety here , but I might as well suggest it . You really could get a little bit of variety for minimal effort , say by adding in a different canned or frozen vegetable each time you make it , or by varying the source of fiber .
Gelatin works by creating a very fine mesh of proteins , between which the ( hidrophilic ) liquid gets trapped . A mixture of fat and water is n't a liquid . It can be either a rough two-phase mixture , with visible fat droplets swimming around in the water , or it can be an emulsion , with invisibly small fat droplets dispersed through the water . Emulsions appear smooth , e.g. milk . When you try to use gelatine on the mixture , two things can happen . In an emulsion , the fat droplets can be smaller than the protein mesh . Then they get trapped as well as the water , and the result is gelled emulsion , just like you 'd expect . But if you have big globules of fat , they ca n't be trapped between the proteins . So it looks like they got squeezed out of the mesh and bubbled up to the surface , if it had n't been there all along . On the surface , gelatine molecules could n't find each other between globules of fat to crosslink , or maybe the motion of the globules broke any nascent links in the small amount of water between them , so it could n't gel . So the conclusion is : you ca n't set soup/stew with gelatine . ( I know that concentrated stock hardens from its own gelatine , but it has the fat filtered out first ) . On the practical side , if you want to have thick stew juice , you have to use something else than gelatine . It is probably simplest to create an olive oil based roux with the stew juice . Or you can gel with xanthan . Both will result in a " juice " which is creamy , instead of solid wobbly blocks of juice , with xanthan retaining the authentic taste and a roux-based sauce being a novel variation . If it is real jelly you are after , you 'll have to emulsify first and use gelatine after that . Xanthan itself should emulsify well , or you can probably use lecithine . AFAIK , there is no problem to use lecithine and gelatine together , but somebody with more experience in gelling agents should confirm that . In any case , emulsifying will lead to your liquid getting quite opaque . This is inavoidable , as it has to do with the way the collection of individual micro fat droplets break and reflect light rays .
It 's an issue of thermodynamics . When you 're cooking food , the food cools itself off through evaporative cooling and the energy being used to cause chemical changes in the food ( eg , caramelizing sugars ) . If you have too much food in the pan , the balance is overwhelmed by evaporative cooling , and thus you can only get to the boiling point of water . To change the equation , you need to do one of the following : Use a more powerful heat source . Cook less food at a time Reduce the amount of moisture in the food before cooking it . You 'll often see advice for # 3 -- such as patting dry steak or chicken before grilling it , as without it , you wo n't get good browning . You ca n't do that when you 're dealing with sauces . You can try cooking less , but with sauces you cause more problems -- if the pan size is the same , the area for evaporation is the same , so you do n't really improve the balance . With a sufficiently sized burner , you can actually heat sauces above the boiling point , as you 're putting in energy faster than evaporation can cool it . This which will change the chemical reactions that occur , thus the resulting chemical compounds and the resulting flavor of the food .
I assume you are talking about the risk that the alcohol vapor from the wine mixes with the air and ignites . Let 's do some maths . I 'll do my calculations with some pretty round numbers , but in the end you 'll see that it does n't matter . Assume an average gas oven with a volume of 150l . According to Wikipedia , the absolute minimum mix of ethanol to air for ignition is 3 % , so that 's 4.5 l of pure ethanol vapor . Water expands at a rate of 1700 when it turns into steam . Assuming ethanol is in the same ballpark and add some entropy for higher temperatures , we 'll assume a factor of 2000 . That means we 'll need 4.5 l / 2000 = 2.25 ml of pure ethanol . In a typical bottle of red wine there is 12 % ethanol , so for a 750ml bottle , that is 90ml . As you can see , we have about 40 times the ethanol we need to make a nice boom . Now to answering your question : I would deem it probably safe to cook red wine in the gas oven . The burners are usually not in direct contact with the air inside the oven , and both the burners and oven is ventilated , so the ethanol would probably escape even before it could meet the required saturation . And even if the vapor was allowed to build up inside the oven and not get in contact with the gas flames , the self ignition temperature for ethanol is 363 ° C , far hotter than it 'll get in there . The most convincing argument that it 's safe is the millions of times chefs around the world have cooked with wine in a gas oven :)
The technique that many restaurants will use is to prepare the pasta ahead of time and store it in or on ice water . The chilled pasta may be then submerged briefly in boiling water and served .
Salt ( Sodium chloride ) is salt . As a topping , flakes are commonly used purely for presentation purposes only . The taste is the same , but gets more intense as the salt particles get finer , so use less if the salt is in powder form As an ingredient , use any form you are happy with , and is economical to use . Once salt is dissolved into water it will be identical to any other form of salt For health reasons , finely powdered salt is preferable as much less is required to impart a salty taste
Based on your description , you seem to be measuring the rice and water in a measuring cup and adding them to the pan . Having used the same Zojirushi rice maker for 8 years , I can testify that relatively small variations in the water/rice ratio can produce large changes in the final texture of the rice . In your case , it seems to be that you 're using too much water . Adjusting the ratio to 1:1 should give you a chewier baseline to work with , and adding water in 1 oz . increments should allow you very fine-grained control ( no pun intended ) over the texture of the rice . That said , I believe that the most reliable results come from using the 3/4 C / 180 mL " cup " provided . To use it , you scoop a number of " cups " of rice and add them to the cooking pan , washing in the pan . After pouring off the wash water , fill the pan with water to the line on the inside face corresponding to the type of rice used and the number of " cups " of rice you added to the pan . In my experience , using this method produces essentially perfect results every time . Adjusting the water level to very slightly below the line will yield chewier rice , while adjusting slightly above will yield mushier rice .
I do n't think the water change will be very significant . If you were to lay them out flat so the surfaces dried a bit , they might sear and brown more easily ( because that effect depends on moisture reduction in the first millimeter or so of the vegetable so that it can go above 212 F ) . The other thing that can be a factor is that once a vegetable is cut , some enzymes are released from the cells that can cause changes . Whether that effect will make any substantial difference depends a lot on which vegetables you are talking about .
Sounds like the technique for <URL> , from <URL> , only with hot sauce added . I do n't think it has a name other than " pan fry/sear in caramelized sugar "
Yes , it is safe . It is really more a question of quality . I would suggest that , in your specific situation you get a browning dish . ( It would be something that you could still use after your move , if you like . ) Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . There is nothing like a charbroiled steak straight off the grill . But for the times when you do n't want to fire up the grill - or even get the broiler dirty - there is a way to sear steaks in the microwave on an accessory called a browning dish . A microwaved steak will not brown well without one , and the dish is really the only acceptable way to brown in the microwave . Browning dishes can be either flat rectangular plates or black skillets that are designed for the microwave . Embedded in the plate or skillet are metal strips that cause the microwaves to couple or link , producing an electrical current . The dish also is coated with a metal that is resistant to the electrical current . You can read the rest of the article and the how-to information by following the link .
First off , there 's not a lot in the ingredients you list that is likely to pose a hazard anyway . ( It is possible for flour to be contaminated with bacteria , and if the bacterial count is high enough , it could pose a risk in raw dough . ) However , pasteurization to safe levels at 160F does n't take more than a few seconds in most foods , and it 's likely the interior of your loaf was above 130F ( where bacteria will gradually start dying off ) for quite some time . I 'd definitely consider it safe to eat right after baking , though it may not be particularly pleasant . However , underdone bread sometimes is prone to earlier spoilage , since it generally has a higher moisture content that might promote some mold , bacterial , and yeast growth after baking . The chances of it becoming actually hazardous without noticeably spoiling are probably rather low , but it 's possible , particularly if the moisture content is high enough . It 's much more likely that the bread would just spoil normally through the appearance of surface molds , etc. , though . If you wanted to be extra cautious , you could store leftover bread in the freezer or fridge .
This is just traditional fire cooking , now called camp-fire cooking , or ( US ) cowboy cooking Any Scout should know how to do this :-) It works best using food with tough outer skins , or wrapped in a sacrificial coverings , or more modernly using aluminium foil , or a cast iron pot ( <URL> ) Some common foods examples : Potato and other Tubers You lose about 5 mm ( including unpeeled skin ) to the fire . If you wrap in Aluminium foil the loss is often nil . Wash and soak tuber well before cooking , but do not cut into the skin , even to remove imperfections or ' eyes ' . Takes about 30 to 60 minutes to cook depending on coal heat . If not eating immediately , do not leave potatoes in foil wrapping . Unwrap and let surface dry Corn Do not remove husk . Soak corn before cooking . It takes about 10 to 20 minutes to cook depending on coal heat Cabbage Wash and soak cabbage . Drain excess water . Do not remove any dead leaves etc. . Poke a knife halfway into the core from the top and pour in a little water ( and meat fat for extra go ) . Can take up to 1 hour to fully cook Meat Large slabs work best . Reduce flesh loss by wrapping in edible leaves . If you do n't like the charred bits , you can use Aluminium foil , or better yet a dutch oven . Time depends on mass and done-ness desired Small goods like sausage ( real meat and fat , not sawdust please ) will have up to 5 mm of flesh loss , but are still fun to do . Fish Gut fish , but otherwise leave intact . Fish cooks relatively fast , time depends on mass . Pull sides apart and eat flesh directly off the skin and bone . If using a foil pouch you can add aromatics , raw sugar , and spices to make some amazing meals Fruit Keep bananas in skin , make a couple of small cuts to let steam escape . Cooks in 10 to 15 minutes Unpeeled and un-cored apples cook in 15 to 20 minutes ( you can eat the core , it 's good for you )
Your common ' non-solid ' high-protein items are : peanut butter , or other nut butters eggs yogurt cheese ( cream cheese or served melted ) tofu Depending on how strict you 're being with the fat intake , you can go even further ... low fat or non-fat yogurts and cheese ( eg . neufchâtel instead of cream cheese ) ; whites only for the eggs , etc. . Be warned that if you try to go too low-fat during this time , your body might actually crave more feed , making the problem worse . If it 's not a problem with your body being unable to process fats , you might want to reduce protein but increase fats during this time . The good news is that unless you 're a body builder , having a lower protein diet for a week or two while things heal wo n't cause your body to start eating itself -- in fact , most American diets have more protein in it than our bodies need -- about 3-5oz of meat per day ( not per meal ) is enough ; exact amount depends on your size and build . As you can get away with soft foods , and not just non-solid : Scrambled eggs ( leave out a few yolks if you 're really sensitive to the fat ) . Pulled pork , roja vieja , pot roast cooked ' ragout ' , or similar ( you might need to also chop it up if the bits of meat are long ) . Pasta with an egg sauce ( like carbonara , but might have to avoid the black pepper and/or crispy meat ... might be able to use a soft ham and/or add extra salt or worcestershire ) or a cheese sauce ( eg , macaroni and cheese , alfredo ) Tuna fish ( canned in water ; can either make into a tuna salad ( avoid celery . Use a grater to extract onion juice for flavor without solid bits of onion . Pickle brine can help brighten it up while being non-solid ) Refried beans ( make your own , and you can cut down the fat significantly ) Many soups . ( either make a strong stock , cook the meat 'til it 's soft , or put it through a blender ... or egg drop soup ) Cheesecake ( use neufchâtel cheese , or find a recipe that uses soft tofu ) Flan , custards , or ice cream ( made with a custard base , but low-fat milk ) You can also work some extra protein into other dishes ... thin your mashed potatoes with ( pre-heated ) stock a bit more than you typically would , then while still hot , blend in a egg or two . Or add neufchâtel cheese instead of milk or butter ( add stock if you still need to thin it further for your tastes )
end question
start question
Does searing cause more or less oil to be absorbed than frying ?
Higher temperatures , as a rule , mean less absorption of oil because the force of the steam trying to escape from the food pushes against the oil . Here is a link to a scholarly <URL> discussing the mechanics of fat absorption in the production of french fries ( complete with a table of results and diagrams ) . Interestingly , the author says that potatoes deep fried at more than ten degrees Celsius below the recommended temperature of 180-185C leads to 40 % higher fat uptake . I expect pan-frying leads to a much lower total uptake of fat , but I am sure the principle is the same . ( For a fun explanation of the mechanics , here 's Alton Brown in part II of the " Man Food " episode of <URL> . Enjoy . ) Now , your question was aimed at tofu ( or some spongy equivalent ) , and you asked about the effects of flour vs no flour . I could not find any articles with data on those exact elements of your question , but I suspect the answers will all derive from the same underlying principles . In other words , as a rule , cooking at low or medium heat means that the spongy and/or dredged product will tend to absorb more fat than at high heat . So , then , why do the recipes you have seen typically call for cooking tofu on " medium " heat ? My guess is that the recipe authors found that high heat makes the outside brown too much by the time the inside is " done " to the authors ' preferences -- and perhaps a little extra oil in the tofu makes it taste better . I am not sure , however , because most of the recipes I 've seen call for searing a crust onto the tofu using medium-high heat .
Almost all bread is best eaten on the day it is prepared , whether leavened with baking soda or with yeast . ( Exceptions might be some whole-grain dense breads with strong flavors that " settle " and improve after a day or so . ) Fermentation time does in fact have a small impact on how fast bread goes stale , though . Staling generally encompasses two things : ( 1 ) degradation of the crust by excess moisture migrating from the interior of the loaf , and ( 2 ) hardening of the crumb due to recrystallization of certain starches . The first aspect is n't that significant in soda bread , since its moisture content is high and its rising power ( compared to yeasted bread ) is relatively low , so it rarely develops the kind of crackly crust you might find on a French baguette . In that respect , soda bread 's crust wo n't degrade noticeably faster than , say , a typical moist yeasted sandwich bread . The second aspect might make soda bread more likely to stale faster . A long fermentation allows time for various enzymes to do some work in breaking down some starches in the bread and converting them to sugar . If the starch content in the final bread is lower , staling will be reduced somewhat . For example , amylase enzymes are naturally part of yeast fermentation and will break down starches , though sometimes they are added to improve bread texture and shelf life . ( Home bakers often use amylase in the form of barley malt . ) Is this effect significant , though , assuming you do n't add enzymes to your bread dough during fermentation ? I 'd guess that it probably only becomes significant for yeasted breads with long fermentation times , including those that use preferments or sourdough starters , or where fermentation takes place overnight in the refrigerator or something . The long fermentation will allow time for the natural enzymes to activate and do their work . So , some yeasted breads will have noticeable slower staling due to the process of yeast fermentation . However , if you compared a soda bread recipe vs. a yeasted bread recipe with similar ingredients that is only fermented for a couple of hours , the difference in shelf-life between the two would probably be negligible .
Well , looking at the recipe ... The sugar ( brown sugar + honey ) level looks roughly appropriate compared to the flour so that 's unlikely . The fat level looks a tad low for the cookies I normally do , but I 've never used oil in cookies before . You might try increasing the oil just a bit to lend extra tenderness , but I do n't think this is the real issue . ( Using oil in cookies also means you 're not <URL> , which is typically important in most cookies ... so its a bit odd , but I do n't know that it would cause them to be ' crumbly ' . ) The <URL> definitely is n't helping it to keep structural support . The recipe is basically banking on the fact that it needs to be moist to hold together . There 's not really enough liquid to form gluten to add structure ( which you do n't usually want for cookies anyway ) . Since there 's nothing in the cookie to give it ' structure ' , if you dry it out its just going to fall apart on you . I suspect your problem is from the directions of ' Do n't overbake these , or they 'll dry out a little . ' They dried out a bit too much and lost all support . It 's easy to over bake cookies and this is a recipe with very little room for error in that area .
Transfer of heat . First you need a hot pan ( sprinkle some drops of water on the pan , it should sizzle ) . Then you add a drop of oil and swirl it around . When the oil forms a striated pattern , it 's hot . Then you put the meat in . The hot oil helps to transfer heat from the bottom of the pan to the meat . You only need a spoonful of oil .
I disagree with Neil 's answer here . All the three terms of " poaching " , " boiling " or " simmering " require that your food is fully submerged , especially for poaching it has to be free-floating in a large amount of water . I doubt that you are submerging anything in 4 mm , and this little amount of water would boil off quickly if you had so little food that it is submerged . Depending on the exact circumstances and the type of food ( veggies vs grains vs meat ) , but also on the size of the food chunks , what you are doing is either sweating , steaming or braising , but in a very inefficient form . Sweating would be part of the initial browning of vegetables before further use in a soup or similar , until they are softer . It usually involves some browning , but this wo n't happen when you are using water . In fact , you 're better off leaving the water out altogether in this case and use either fat or nothing . Steaming can be done with vegetables or grains . It is better done with somewhat more water than you describe , but still much less than needed for boiling them . The " mix food and water in the pan/pot " technique is better suited for grains , vegetables do better in a steamer suspended over a large amount of boiling water , without touching the water . Braising is normally used for meat , but can also be done with other food which can be cut up in largish chunks ( aubergines would do , but not peas , for example ) . It is tastier when done in a sauce than in water . Unlike shallow frying , which is done with oil , what you are doing does not have a name of its own , because it is not something usually done when cooking . Depending on what you are trying to do , there are better ways to go about it .
Remember your stages of sugar boiling and how they come out , if it 's too sticky or soft it is probably down to too low a final temperature ( wrong texture ) or more likely too much golden syrup . Be sparing with the golden syrup / glucose syrup , the sucrose will set in to hard sugars , but the glucose/inverted sugar syrup acts as a crystallisation inhibitor , vinegar can be used to similar effect ( though does not enrich the flavour so ) . It sets too , but I find too much can lead to weeping . Also , I have heard that an overly humid environment can be a problem . People used to say not to cook toffee on a humid day .
Sugar does not cause sour food to be any less acidic . The difference is purely one of perception ; we are wired by evolution to prefer sweet tastes and tend to perceive less of other tastes when a high sugar concentration is present . Sugar does not ionize - it is not basic or acidic . Acidity itself is a chemical property , and only a base ( such as baking soda or trisodium citrate ) can actually neutralize it . Two other compounds - <URL> and <URL> - actually alter our mouth chemistry and really do cause sour foods to taste sweet , without actually sweetening the food itself . But plain sugar does nothing at all - there is no chemical reaction happening . It 's just masking other tastes , not neutralizing them . The reason sugar does n't mask bitterness as effectively as sourness is that sweet and sour have roughly similar taste thresholds , while most humans are extremely sensitive to bitter tastes . We can detect quinine ( the reference solute for bitterness ) in solution at 0.5 ppm , whereas sucrose is n't normally detectable at levels below 5000 ppm . The amount of sugar needed to mask a significant bitter taste is simply not practical . If you want to neutralize a bitter taste , <URL> .
There are differences between baking in a plastic bag and in a Dutch oven . If you have access to both , I prefer the Dutch oven . What both do is to Trap steam This makes your food a bit moister , and keeps pan juices and additions to the roast , like a dry rub or mirepoix , from drying out into an unappetizing , carbonized spot . It is not as important for meat as for bread . I have n't tried baking bread in a bag , but maybe it will work . Change the mix of heating processes Baking in an oven involves heating by conduction , convection and radiation at the same time . The heating elements emit a lot of infrared radiation , which cooks the surface of the food , giving it a nice crust , but does not penetrate it to cook the inside . When you put the food in a small closed space , the material shields it from that radiation . Althought there is some secondary radiation from the shielding material itself , the amount of conduction heating goes up a lot . This gives you more even heating and the inside will be well cooked before the crust burns . Be aware that if your bags are transparent or translucent in the visible spectrum , chances are that they let at least some infrared waves through and a Dutch oven will perform better . Where bags and Dutch ovens differ is that only a Dutch oven gives you a buffer for temperature changes . Its large thermal mass and relatively low heat conductivity make sure that there are no rapid temperature changes when you open the oven . Using a Dutch oven will also help if your oven heats unevenly . As the oven heats the Dutch oven , the heat travels throughout the Dutch oven , and only then it heats the food on the inside . This gives you a more even roasting process . In a logistically problematic situation , you can hold the food longer in the Dutch oven without it cooling on the counter or drying out in the oven . Remember to allow for residual heat transfer and turn off the heat 4-5 ° C earlier than usual .
Short answer : tomato sauce is a <URL> . Another interesting link can be found <URL> . Tomato sauce in an interesting creature . Think about ketchup . You try you shake some out and nothing . So you tap the bottle a little bit , still nothing . Tap it a little harder , and a little harder , and suddenly boom : a flood of ketchup . The " jumpiness " of tomato sauce is caused by the same physics . Basically , tomato sauce has two things in it that contribute to this characteristic : water and tomato pulp . At first , the tomato pulp is just lying around every which way , which makes the sauce act a lot thicker . But when the strands of pulp are aligned , it makes the sauce act a lot more like water . Heating up the sauce increases the pressure on the sauce , allowing areas of the sauce to become much more fluid , resulting in bubbling , popping , and the flinging of tomato sauce all over your clean white shirt . The same effect is what makes ketchup come flying out of the bottle - when you whack it hard enough , the pressure changes the state of the ketchup , and the ketchup literally flows like water . Edit : updated with relevant information Unfortunately , when I managed to get a hold of Mr. Steingarten 's lovely book , <URL> , * I discovered that the passage regarding tomato sauce as a non-Newtonian fluid was exclusively regarding ketchup , and not general tomato sauce as I thought I remembered . However , this description is still a valuable one , and it does help explain this particular characteristic of tomato-based sauces ( after all , ketchup is a tomato based sauce ) [ p 96 ] : It was only after I had send a stream of ketchup streaking across my wife 's favorite tablecloth , a lovely hand-printed Indian cotton from a shop on the rue Jacob , that I telephoned Professor Malcolm Bourne at Cornell for a lesson in non-Newtonian fluids . Sir Isaac Newton wrote the laws governing liquids that flow like water : the more force you exert on them , the faster they flow . But ketchup is different . Composed of tangled red tomato fibers suspended in a sweet and acidic colorless serum , ketchup behaves like a solid both at rest and under low levels of pressure : but then , at some higher threshold , it suddenly begins flowing like an ordinary fluid . That 's why the frustrated ketchup lover who loses patience with gentle taps on the bottle 's bottom and prematurely shifts to a powerful wallop ends up with a gush of ketchup over everything . Ketchup and mayonnaise are known as Bingham fluids , named after the scientist who characterized them early [ last ] century . * Personally , I think that The Man Who Ate Everything is a must-read for anyone interested in culinary science , and a should-read for anyone interested in food . Second Edit : Due to a handful of downvotes that I received while I slept last night , I guess some clarification is needed : I just want to be absolutely clear here , I am in no way implying that . I offer this information as an example of how tomato pulp suspended in liquid acts . The fact that " tomato sauce is thick " does n't really hold up . The question even clearly states : " Of all the sauces and creams I prepare in a hot pot , tomato sauce is the most jumpy " , which presumably includes thick ones . If thickness was the only factor ( and I 'm not saying that it is n't a factor ) , we would see similar actions from cheese sauces , bechamels , gravies , and a variety of soups . While these sauces/soups do splatter , tomato sauce is significantly more " splattery . " Put a pot of tomato sauce next to any other sauce/soup , take your pick , and heat them to the same temperature . I can pretty much guarantee that given similar conditions , you 're going to be wiping up a lot more tomato sauce than the other one . One last edit : <URL> on Slate indicates that it 's a combination of the above ( being a " plastic liquid " ) , the viscosity , and pectin , as pointed out by Brendan in a comment below .
Do you mean sautee ? Or deep fry ? Typical deep fry recipe would be to incorporate spices into the flour : add your salt , pepper , paprika , etc to the batter , then fry . If you sautee , your chicken strips should be seasoned like follows : first , rub in a small to medium amount of kosher salt ( not table salt ) . Let sit for 15 + minutes to season / brine the meat . Best would be a water brine , but I 'm guessing that 's too fussy for you . Now , cook up the chicken strips in the pan . Most dry spices I could imagine adding could go in towards the end of the sautee , stuff like cayenne and so on . Garlic or onions would be added first before the chicken , and cooked until soft , but not too brown .
Draining the juice , refilling the jar with oil and then storing to reduce the acidity wo n't work because : Acid and lye can be diluted only with water or liquids like water ( if I remember correctly , ethanol will also work ) but not oil . You might run into the risk of botulism . ( Maybe not since the mushrooms are sour . If you do n't measure the pH you ca n't be sure ) . The only thing you can do is to soak the portion of mushrooms you intend to eat in water before eating . Replacing the brine with water of the whole jar beforehand to lower the pH will shorten the shelf life significantly .
Oil or fat is absolutely not necessary to cook rice . I suspect you may have been taught the pilaf method where the rice is first sauteed in oil or butter , and then liquid is added and the rice is fully cooked . The purpose of the pilaf method is to add depth of flavor . When making pilafs , additional herbs , spices , or aromatics ( such as onions ) are often included . If you have been taught to add oil without the sauteeing , then the only purpose of it would be to add flavor . It wo n't really help prevent sticking , and is n't needed for the rice to cook properly . There are many methods to cook rice in addition to the pilaf method , and many to do not require any fat . Simply boiling or steaming in water is completely traditional in many Asian cuisines . In some cuisines , the crusty rice that sticks to the bottom of the pot or rice cooker is actually highly prized ( see Wikipedia 's <URL> article ) . You can mitigate the crusting of the rice by making sure to use the lowest flame or heat setting that will keep the rice steaming . I actually prefer to put the whole pot in a moderate oven , rather than do it on the stove top . You can also use the pasta method of simply boiling the rice in water , and then draining it when it is done to your liking , to completely avoid the crust . This will result in less sticky rice since the surface starches will be left in the boiling water . I understand this method is popular in some parts of India and Pakistan .
The pot will have more caffeine . You are right that the concentration of the final solution is determined not only by steeping time , temperature , etc. , but also by the amount of water available to dilute the stuff coming out of the tea , including caffeine . It will reach balance earlier with less water . So more water will get more of the different compounds in tea dissolved . For an empirical observation by somebody surprised by the result , see also <URL> .
It 's not drastically important in making it workable , it 's more important in the texture of the finished result . When you roll out pastry dough , you are created interleaving layers of fat and the flour/water mix . When you cook it , the fat melts , leaving pockets in the dough , causing it to form flaky layers . This results in a crisp , light pastry . For this to happen , the fat must remain as solid as possible until cooking . If the fat melts and blends with the flour and water before cooking , you will have a dense , cardboard-like pastry . Also , warm pastry dough tends to become sticky and hard to work with .
I would use it for anything other than deep frying or high temperature frying . It would be great for anything that requires oil but not cooking , like hummus .
Your proposed method is possibly dangerous , you 'd be warming it enough for botulism to thrive , but not enough to kill it . When you cook it , cook it properly and all at once . What I 'd suggest is simply cooking it on Friday , then re-heating it saturday , or getting up early enough to cook it through on Saturday . As for when to thaw it if it 's a truly heroic size I 'd thaw it in the fridge starting 48 hours before you want to cook it . As for how long I 'd usually do 20 minutes per pound plus 20 minutes as long as the meat is room temperature to start with , so for 7.5 lbs , so that 's near enough 3 hours as makes little difference . Not that long really , if you wanted to serve at 1pm you 'd want to get it out of the fridge as early in the day as you can , get the oven on at 8:40 on 350F ( 375 F on a conventional oven ) , get the meat in at 9 , roast till 12 , then rest it for an hour . Crank the oven up to max for the last 20 minutes to get the crackling extra crispy .
With regard to your source that suggests adding lettuce will reduce foaming of the oil : it might be possible to use lettuce as a tool to scoop up surfactants from the surface of the oil . If you 're going to attempt it , I think the best time to do it would be when the oil is cool . An Introduction to Surface Tension Foaming is related to surface tension : for example , adding a <URL> ( such as soap in water ) to a liquid reduces its surface tension , which makes bubbles more stable . So to reduce foaming , you would need to increase the surface tension . Note that we ca n't increase surface tension by adding something to the oil : the only way to increase the surface tension of a liquid with an additive is to increase its overall density . To see why that 's the case , suppose for a moment that there were a magical substance that liked to stay on the surface of the liquid and caused higher surface tension . That higher surface tension would compress the liquid , and raise its pressure . That means any spot on the surface that had less of the substance would have less surface tension and less pressure , so the pure liquid would be pushed out of that spot and cover the surface . That process would result in the substance never actually being on the surface of the liquid , which contradicts our starting assumption , so no such substance can exist . Instead , such substances become distributed evenly throughout the interior of the liquid ... and , if they make the liquid more dense , that raises its surface tension . So , if we want to increase the surface tension of aging oil , the only way we can do that is by removing surfactants from the oil , assuming we do n't want to mix the oil with large quantities of something more dense . Surface Tension and Frying As J. B. Rossell explains in <URL> ( with credit to BaffledCook for finding the source ) , surface tension is very important in deep fat frying , beyond just the idea of foaming . Initially , oil for deep fat frying tends to undercook ( or takes longer to cook ) food , because few surfactants are present in fresh oil . Due to the high surface tension , the oil is less often in direct contact with the food being fried ( as little as 10 % of the time it is submerged ) , which means less heat transfer by conduction , less of a crust , and less oil present in the final product . As the oil gradually breaks down with repeated cooking , surfactants build up in the oil , reaching an ideal range which gives the preferred golden crust and moderate greasiness , with oil being in contact with the food between 20 % and 50 % of the time it is submerged . When the oil goes bad , the high quantity of surfactants results in too much contact between the oil and the food , resulting in greasy food that is overcooked on the outside and undercooked on the inside , and may have a bad flavor due to the rancidity of the oil , or contamination from the food being fried . Removing Surfactants First of all , I want to say that I 'm not sure I 'm in favor of trying to prolong the life of frying oil beyond its natural lifetime : the breakdown of the oil results in potentially cancer-causing free radicals , so I 'd rather err on the side of replacing the oil too often , especially if I 'm cooking for myself or loved ones . If you were going to re-use the oil anyway , you might be able to reduce the amount of oil that gets into your food by reducing the quantity of surfactants , but if you 're debating saving money by using your fry oil longer than you normally would , I 'd say a bottle of oil is cheaper than a trip to the oncologist 's office . Speaking of cost , I think a bottle of most oils used for frying is also cheaper than a head of lettuce , so I 'm not sure how economically viable this strategy is . That said , since surfactants ( SURface ACTive AgeNTS ) are attracted to the surface of the liquid ( they find a lower energy state by decreasing the energy of the boundary between two liquids or a liquid and a gas ) , they can potentially be removed by skimming ( or just pouring ) them off the surface . ( I expect putting the oil in a narrow bottle and pouring off some of the oil from the top would be a more economically viable solution to remove surfactants . ) Because crinkly lettuce leaves have a high surface area , its possible that just dipping lettuce in the oil and drawing it out might remove a significant amount of surfactant , especially if the surface area of the lettuce leaf is high in comparison to the surface area of the pot that the oil is in : the surfactant will attempt to spread evenly across the entire surface of the oil . If we assume the surfactant is attracted only to the oil/air boundary ( note : I have no knowledge of whether this is actually the case , or whether the material of the container matters ) , then when a lettuce leaf with a surface area equal to the surface area of the oil/air boundary is dipped into the oil , and then slowly removed , the oil covering the top of the pot and the oil covering the lettuce leaf will have roughly equal su
Yes that 's exactly what it means , apply salt to the steak . You should n't coat it , but you should apply salt very liberally . It 's actually hard to over-salt a steak ; many inexperienced cooks actually underseason the steak . I suggest about 1 tsp per side for a good ribeye . Salt it about 10-15 minutes prior .
I do n't think it 's your fault . Mates do n't break that often . Besides , I 've seen a lot of people drink it hotter than me without any problems . As for preparation , it was recommended to me the following : Place the leaves in the mate Add a little bit of cold water Add hot water When and how you put the straw is a whole other chapter !
You could try <URL> : Stick it in the freezer , and skim off the ice . Keep the ice , discard the liquid and melt the ice . If you had a freezer that you could precisely control the temperature , I believe there are certain preferred target temperatures , but simply checking on it frequently in a standard freezer should do the trick . The vacuum based suggestions also sound good , if you have appropriate equipment for that . Basically , you 're asking about distillation in reverse . Traditional distillation is primarily boiling , but there 's also a few traditions ( applejack , <URL> ) involving ice distillation . In ice distillation they 're after a higher alcohol product and keeping the liquid ( discarding the ice ) , but I believe if you switch which part you keep you 'll get the same results . Much like any other distillation , you may need to run through the process multiple times to get the desired result . With beer , the primary flavoring is from compounds extracted from hops , which react with oxygen to produce unpleasant flavors . By " unpleasant " I mean turning the bitter and tangy flavors into something more like wet cardboard . So depending on what you 're doing you may also need to protect your beer from exposure to oxygen . I believe with beer the real enemy is oxygen , with heat or light accelerating the undesirable reactions . Depending on the style of beer , esters and phenols may also be important to the flavor . In styles where those flavors are desired , it 's typically a wide mix , and it 's quite possible some of them will evaporate easier than alcohol or be harder to freeze . Note that no distillation method is " perfect " , with all distillation methods you 'll have water and alcohol in both outputs of the process , you 'll just have a greater amount of alcohol in the evaporated or unfrozen part and a lesser amount in the unevaporated or frozen part . Note also that in the US any <URL> .
end question
start question
What determines how hard or soft a cheese will be ?
Harold McGee , in On Food and Cooking , is very detailed in his explanation of how cheese " works " . He describes three stages . In the first stage , lactic acid bacteria convert milk sugar into lactic acid . In the second stage , which overlaps with the first one , rennet ( an extract of calf stomach - or , to be more precise , chymosin , a protein found in this extract and now also obtainable from yeasts and the like ) curdles the casein proteins and watery whey is drained from the concentrated curds . And finally , in the third stage , the cheese ripens , and a whole host of different enzymes do all sorts of things to flavour and texture . According to McGee , Acid and Rennet form very different kinds of curd structures -- acid a fine , fragile gel , rennet a coarse but robust , rubbery one -- so their relative contributions , and how quickly they act , help determine the ultimate texture of the cheese . He goes on to describe how mostly acid coagulation leads to softer cheeses and mostly rennet-based coagulation leads to firmer curds and harder cheeses . Draining of the whey also strongly affects the final texture , as Sobachatina points out in <URL> . Pressing firmly expels much whey and thus leads to a harder cheese ; softer cheeses are just allowed to drain some whey by gravity . But there 's another important factor here : heat . Some cheeses are " cooked " in their whey at this stage , to a temperature as high as 55C ( 130F ) for a rock-hard Parmesan or about 38C ( 100F ) for a somewhat softer Tommes , and this expels even more whey from the curd particles ( and , of course , also affects flavour ) . At this stage , salt is also added . Salt draws some moisture out of the curds as well and is a catalyst for the denaturing of casein , thus reinforcing the protein structure . McGee also discusses aging of cheese at some length , but he does n't really touch on the effect of aging on the structure of cheese . That effect is certainly there ; a very young Gouda cheese is almost as soft as a Camembert , whereas a very old one gets close to Parmesan hardness ( if it does n't crumble to dust ) . I imagine that this is due to some moisture escaping the cheese , but also due to the fact that the protein networks keep growing more and more interconnected as the cheese ripens .
Usually you can tell when Pineapples are ripen , which will be sweet , when Leaves are loose and can easily be picked from the top The shell has golden colour ( but not dark brown , these are getting rotten ) The aroma even from out of the shell is strong A typical pineapple that is bought green and unripen , takes one to two days to ripe well . Do n't put them in the fridge if you want to ripe them . Keep them out on the counter . As a street food vendor , we always keep them in the truck for one night prior to selling , that ensure the pineapples ripe enough and the juice comes out of it . Hope it helps .
It should be slightly duller than a fresh razor blade . Skill can make up for lack of sharpness , but if you do n't have the skills you 'll mash the fish more than slice . This is why instructors and surgeons can get away with dull knives ; they 've got years of experience cutting flesh . Traditionally , fillet and boning knives are sharpened to a shallower angle than general-use chef knives , to allow a keener edge . The only knife in a cook 's arsenal that should be sharper is the slicer , which sees rarer use , and needs to be super-sharp for thin slices .
Visible cloudiness is a result of suspended particles of about 1 micrometer ( micron ) or larger in size . Technically , just about any juice could in theory be filtered to remove those particles . But there are a couple things going on here . First , any filtering , clarification , etc. does cause some modification of flavor . Flavor compounds can be much smaller than 1 micron , but how they 're perceived can be modified by larger particles that contribute to mouthfeel and by their relative concentrations . If you 're measuring against the raw food , any change subtly modifies how it tastes . A raw tomato tastes slightly different from tomato juice , which in turn tastes different than <URL> . This can have an especially strong impact on subtle flavors like vegetable juices . Second , 1 micron is pretty small . The average pore size for your <URL> is about 10-15 microns , meaning you have to go a full order of magnitude smaller in order to remove visible cloudiness . Besides physical filtration , there are other ways to do this like <URL> , but those may also remove things like suspended oils or specific flavor compounds . That might be okay if you mostly care about sweetness and you can add artificial flavors back later ( as with mass-produced juice blends ) but could be a problem if you 're going for a very " natural " flavor . In general , more filtering means more processing and more associated flavor change . Third , you 're right that there is a marketing aspect here . Consumers have grown used to certain types of juice being clear ( like apple juice ) and others being totally opaque ( like orange juice ) . A certain subset might also actually prefer clouded juices , seeing them as less processed ( which they generally are ) and therefore more " healthy " , regardless of whether that 's actually true . In short , you could filter just about any liquid clear through some means or another , but it will taste different , and will likely affect how much people will pay you for the result .
This is going to depend on how long you want to keep it for . If you 're serving it soon ( say , same day , maybe next ) , then do n't refrigerate it at all , though some people seem to think it gives better flavor to refrigerate overnight . If you 've used e.g. , buttercream frosting , you 'll need to refrigerate or freeze it , unless you 're serving immediately after frosting . Some fillings may also require refrigeration . If you 're storing short term , up to maybe a week , refrigerate it . If you 're going to be storing it long-term ( more than a few days , up to three months ) , you 'll need to tightly wrap it once its cooled , and freeze it . After more than 3 -- 4 months , flavor will be lost , but it 'll still be safe to eat , as long as its stayed at 0 ° F / -17 ° C or below .
If we 're going to define " cheese dip " as " some substance made from cheese for the purpose of dipping other food in " - which seems like the only rational definition given no other context - then I 'd have to pinpoint its origin as being fondue . <URL> , the earliest known recipe for fondue comes from the Swiss cookbook , <URL> , first published in 1699 . That predates the Arkansas claim of 1935 by at least a few centuries , if we assume that Wikipedia does indeed list the earliest source . There 's also <URL> which was supposedly brought to Mexico by the Mennonites , which would place its origin in Mexico sometime in the 1920s - assuming that the Mennonites themselves did not simply adapt the recipe from something known even earlier . I 'd have to say that the Arkansas tourism board seems to be trying to pull a fast one on us , laying claim to this " invention " . Maybe they 're defining cheese dip as the specific kind of cheese dip they came up with , which would of course be a tautology .
I do n't know much of the science behind the super-soft bread on supermarket shelves , but I can give some insight into the history that led to it becoming so ubiquitous in the US . The idea that whiter breads are classier than darker breads goes all the way back to the 5th century BC . The belief that white bread was superior to dark bread , a common theme in many cultures over the ages , was already taking hold in Greece by the 5th century BC . Darker , denser breads made from barley or rye were the breads of the poor . White breads were believed to be pure , more refined , more cultured . They cost more too , since growing wheat was more labor-intensive than other grains . And on top of that , removing the bran and the germ to make wheat flour white instead of brown increased the work and the cost still further . Interestingly , up until the 17th century there were even separate baker 's guilds for bakers of white breads and brown breads . This prejudice against darker breads generally continued all the way until the 1960 's , when growing health consciousness finally seemed to turn the tide . From <URL> The desire for soft came a bit later ( same source ) : I 've often wondered why bread baking in this country-descended as it is from the great European traditions-turned so ... let 's say ... soft . The decline of good bread baking may have had its roots in the 18th century . The introduction of pan baking made bread softer and puffier . In the 19th century a distaste for " sourness " ( ironically the same " sourness " that makes San Francisco sourdough and other sourdoughs so great ) led to the introduction of baking soda to bread , which made it puffier still . In the 1870 's industrial milling techniques were introduced . Flour became whiter and whiter , and " deader " - bakers began adding sugar to get yeasts to react as they had in the past , and bread got puffier still . Bread continued to get sweeter and puffier , until finally in the 1920 's , we reached the pinnacle of puffiness-Wonder Bread . It 's with the birth of Wonder Bread things really take a turn for the insiped . Did you know you can squeeze an entire loaf into a ball the size of a tennis ball ? I once know a guy who never missed an opportunity to show off that little stupid-human-trick ... but I digress ... Alexander Taggart , the founder of Wonder Bread , was a marketing genius . In the 1890s he sold the first company that he had built to The United States Baking Company and he accepted stock in The United States Baking Company as a part of the purchase price . The United States Baking Company subsequently became a part of the National Biscuit Company . You might know that company by another name , Nabisco . So at this point he owned a chunk of Nabisco , but he sold that to start another baking company , the Taggart Baking Company , out of Indianapolis , Indiana . At first he zeroed in on the large number of German immigrants in the area , and prior to WWI he advertised heavily in German language newspapers using a Puritan logo : From <URL> This was a good time to own a baking company in the USA . Between the start of the century and the end of WWI , the market was burgeoning . between 1899 and 1919 the value of bread and bakery products produced in Indiana grew 620 % . Americans were rapidly growing richer , and they could afford to replace labor-intensive homemade goods with manufactured alternatives . - <URL> But events of the era were causing a shift in the attitudes of American consumers . The war and its aftermath caused a tremendous amount of discrimination against German immigrants , and in Indiana , Germans were plentiful enough that there was a significant backlash to those attitudes . To make matters worse , Protestants in Indiana were banding together against Catholics , and the KKK was getting hugely powerful in state politics ( an interesting bit of history in its own right <URL> ) . Our marketing genius knew just how to capitalize on the social unrest . In 1921 the Taggart Company had a new wrapping technique that could keep bread fresh for several days , and set about to rebrand the product.The new Taggart bread would n't carry religious or ethnic connotations that could hinder it 's sales , or even falsely identify itself with the work of Puritan mothers -- it was going to be better . It was going to be from the mechanized world of the future , a utopian world with factories suspended from the clouds by the thread of their smoke ; bridges with the leap of gymnasts ... and the gliding flight of aeroplanes whose propellers sound like the flapping of a flag and the applause of enthusiastic crowds -- a vision outlined in Filippo Marinetti 's Futurist Manifesto , published in 1909 . The new Wonder Bread did n't suggest hearth and home . On the contrary , the unnaturally vibrant colors of the logo and visual purity of this new , virgin white , 1.5 pound loaf perfectly evoked the otherworldliness of the enormous manufacturing system that was seen as America 's future . - <URL> It was the righ
I 'm not sure whether you meant <URL> . If so : These are made of yeast-leavened dough which is quite soft . ( Yeast-leavened dough is also part of toast , pizza , bagels , some kinds of donuts etc. ) In addition , <URL> : Between two layers of dough there is a layer of solid fat ( like butter ) . I think that the fat will make the yeast-leavened dough " extra " moist . To make a simple yeast-leavened dough you need water , ( plain wheat ) flour , salt and yeast . Some other pastries require sugar , fat ( e.g. butter ) , replace water with milk , et cetera ... The flour needs to have <URL> otherwise the dough can not hold the tiny air bubbles that the yeast produces and the dough wo n't be able to rise . Plain wheat flour suits perfectly for this purpose . But it has a disadvantage : If you store the pastry wrongly , the pastry will be frumpy . ( 1 ) Just pick a nice receipe of cinnamon rolls and you 'll see :D If you want to know more about cooking and stuff : " Cooking for Geeks : Real Science , Great Hacks , and Good Food " by Jeff Potter ( O'Reilly &amp; Associates ) . Seems to be a nice book for geeks :D ( 1 ) Source : " Kochen für Geeks " - somehow I could not find the chapter about yeast in the English pendant .
They should be quite a bit softer than a standard Eureka lemon , because the skin is much thinner . That said , it should n't be like a gentle squeeze causes your finger to sink in 1/2 an inch . If that happens , I think you 've found a batch that are too old and have started to get mushy or lose moisture . Keep looking for good ones - Meyer lemons are terrifically fragrant , floral and mild .
Yes , it depends on brand , humidity , etc. . My local variety is 1:4 to 1:4.5 ( polenta : water ) to get to that softness level Add nothing else until you have the polenta at the desired consistency and softness
Sardines are canned , which means the high heat of a pressure canner . That is what softens the bones . If you are wanting softer bones for other kinds of fish , you can either cook them using a pressure cooker or can them . However , this will only work for smaller fish that have smaller bones . If your main concern is that you will swallow a bone and choke , then buy your fish as fillets only . Most fish fillets have no bones at all . The pin bones that are in salmon fillets can be removed with needle nose pliers , and are so small that you could n't choke on them if you tried .
Let it sit , pray carryover cooking does the job ( unlikely ) Wrap it in plastic wrap , tightly spin the top to close . Twist ' the tail ' into a knot or secure with string . Put it back in the water . Position it ' hole-up ' on a baking sheet , put in an oven ( time-consuming ) Crack the egg over a bowl , finish in a pan on low heat ( not ideal for runny yolks ) Microwave ( sad , but could work ) I vote for number 2 .
Oil or fat is absolutely not necessary to cook rice . I suspect you may have been taught the pilaf method where the rice is first sauteed in oil or butter , and then liquid is added and the rice is fully cooked . The purpose of the pilaf method is to add depth of flavor . When making pilafs , additional herbs , spices , or aromatics ( such as onions ) are often included . If you have been taught to add oil without the sauteeing , then the only purpose of it would be to add flavor . It wo n't really help prevent sticking , and is n't needed for the rice to cook properly . There are many methods to cook rice in addition to the pilaf method , and many to do not require any fat . Simply boiling or steaming in water is completely traditional in many Asian cuisines . In some cuisines , the crusty rice that sticks to the bottom of the pot or rice cooker is actually highly prized ( see Wikipedia 's <URL> article ) . You can mitigate the crusting of the rice by making sure to use the lowest flame or heat setting that will keep the rice steaming . I actually prefer to put the whole pot in a moderate oven , rather than do it on the stove top . You can also use the pasta method of simply boiling the rice in water , and then draining it when it is done to your liking , to completely avoid the crust . This will result in less sticky rice since the surface starches will be left in the boiling water . I understand this method is popular in some parts of India and Pakistan .
I 've frozen bottles of vermouth many times . There is no issue with just letting it thaw out in the normal way . In fact you can wait until it 's partly thawed , give it a good shake , and hey presto , vermouth slushy , which goes in some cocktails rather well . Fortified wines do slowly oxidise on exposure to the atmosphere , but this is greatly slowed by the alcohol content . Historically this was one the principle reasons for fortifying wines - so that they store better and last longer .
There are several major types of mousse , made from different bases , and with different flavor elements . Depending on which one you are using , they may have varying requirements . As MandoMando mentions in the comments , assuming you are using a mousse based on whipped cream or whipped egg whites or a freezer-stable thickener ( neither gelatin , agar agar , nor carageenan are freeze-stable ) , you can simply freeze the cake for transport . This tends to work very well , although you may have issues with condensation when thawing it , so you want it very well wrapped ( usually after freezing , so as not to muss the icing ) . Chocolate mousses are often fairly stable due to the cocoa butter , which is solid at room temperature ; some can also be gelatin stablized . See the linked recipe in <URL> for inspiration , where the confection is built with two layers of mousse , one which is stablized with gelatin . Many fruit mousses tend to be made with gelatin , so increasing the quantity of gelatin will give you a stronger mousse . See also : <URL> for perhaps more information on hydro-colloids than you ever wished to know .
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
In my book , this is pretty trivial . Wasabi is absolutely a spice - it 's something with a very specific flavor , derived from a plant , that can be used in fairly small quantities to add flavor to something . It 's not spicy ( spicy hot , piquant ) in the normal sense , though . It does n't contain capsaicin . It is hot in some sense : it contains allyl isothiocyanate , which we obviously have a very strong reaction to . This is the same compound that 's in horseradish and hot mustard . The reaction is very different from capsaicin , though . Capsaicin causes you to register heat at a much lower temperature than you normally would , so you 're actually feeling heat , like you would if you were burning your tongue . It 's quite literally hot , as far as your body is concerned . It 's also an oil , so it ca n't be washed away easily with liquid , and the burning tends to linger . Wasabi , on the other hand , does n't produce an actual sensation of heat , you feel it mostly in your nasal passages , and can easily be washed away with liquid , so it tends to be a brief sensation . So sure , " hot " is a reasonable way to describe it , mostly because we do n't have a word for the actual sensation , but it 's definitely not the same thing as a hot pepper . I 'm sure you can find plenty of people who would say that these are just two different kinds of spicy hot ( piquancy ) , but arguing over definitions is n't going to get us anywhere . The important thing is that there 's a fundamental difference , and there 's no way you could substitute one for the other . If you want to understand why I think this ( and it 's not just a personal definition ) , go to any recipe site , search for " spicy " , and see how many things with wasabi/horseradish/mustard supplying " spiciness " you find . Edit : To stave off further debate in the comments , let me just repeat : arguing over definitions is not useful . There are probably a lot of people who think " spicy hot " should include this , and a lot who do n't . I would n't generally expect anyone to think of wasabi without context when you say spicy hot , but you 're welcome to use the terms however you and the people you talk with understand them .
Depends on how many solids and how much water you have in it . If you 've rendered , filtered , and refined it , it should last a few weeks easy . Note : my mother maintained it never EVER went bad , refrigerated or not . Lot of old time southern cooks will say the same , but they all go through it fast .
There is no single answer to this question . Instead , a number of factors ( not including the weather ) affect the perceived tenderness or moistness of a steak or other cut of meat . Overview There are two major factors that effect the perceived moistness of a steak or other cut of meat : The amount of connective tissue . The more connective tissue the meat has , the tougher and chewier it will be , at least until the collagen that composes the connective tissue is converted to gelatin The temperature to which the cut is cooked . The higher the temperature , up to about 165 F , the more different types of proteins are denatured and coagulated , squeezing out moisture , leading to a dryer , tougher mouth feel . Additionally , some minor factors contribute to or enhance perceived tenderness or moistness : Cutting the meat against the grain enhances the perception of tenderness . Marinating in an acid or enzymatically active marinade may enhance tenderness Mechanically processing , cutting , or pounding the meat ( as in a cube steak ) to disrupt its fibers can enhance tenderness . Connective Tissue The more an animal uses a muscle , the more connective tissue that muscle will contain . For example , the shoulder of the animal is usually worked very hard ( it has to keep the animal standing up ) for pigs and cows , so it has a low of connective tissue . Other muscles are used rarely , such as the tenderloin , and do n't develop very much connective tissue . The connective tissue is composed of a protein called collagen , which is tough and rubbery , and makes cuts high in it seem much tougher than those which are not . However , with certain types of cooking , collagen can be converted to gelatin , and convert from being tough to being unctuous and soft . Temperature As the temperature in the steak rises , more and more proteins tighten and denature , squeezing out moisture , resulting in a drier , tougher mouth feel . Various groups of proteins denature at different temperatures , so the higher the internal temperature , the more moistness will be squeezed out , and the drier and tougher the steak will seem . By the time the cut reaches about 165 F , all of the proteins are denatured , and it is fully well done , and as tough as it will be . According to <URL> : 122 ° F - Myosin protein in mammal meat begins to denature . 130-135 ° F - Target temp for medium rare lamb chops and beef steaks , the temperature at which they are at optimum tenderness , flavor , and juiciness . 130-140 ° F - Fats begin to melt and render ( liquefy ) . This is a slow process and can take hours . 140 ° F - Collagens begin to contract and squeeze juice from within muscle fibers into the spaces between the fibers and out to the surface . 140 ° F - Myoglobin denatures rapidly and red or pink juices begin to turn clear or tan and bead up on the surface . 150 ° F - Actin protein begins to denature making meat tougher and drier . 155 ° F - Well done for most meats . Most ( but not all ) bacteria killed in less than 30 seconds but spores can survive to much higher temps . High Connective Tissue Cuts When cuts are high in connective tissue , the same toughening and drying that occurs in low connective cuts happens as the internal temperature rises to about 165 F. However , starting at about 170-180 F , a new process begins to engage : the collagen ( the very protein that made these cuts tougher to start with ) begins to transform in the presense of water into gelatin , a different protein . The gelatin lubricates the meat , and gives it a newly unctuous and moist mouth-feel , despite being very well done . It takes time for gelatin conversion to occur : it is not enough to simply bring the internal temperature to 180 F . It has to stay there for several hours for the conversion to have enough time to take place . This gelatin conversion is what makes slow cooking methods like braising and barbecuing so effective for tough cuts of meat . They are cooked until quite well done ( when they would be extremely tough ) , but then the conversion of the collagen to gelatin makes them much softer , and unctuous , so that they are again perceived as moist and tender . Sadly , it will not work on cuts that were fairly tender to begin with , as there is little collagen to convert to gelatin . Slicing Against the Grain Additionally , while a minor factor , the way the meat is cut into bite sized portions also effects the perception of toughness . Muscles are bundles of cells that are aligned in the same direction , like a bundle of straws . They are very , very strong in the direction that the fibers align ( along the straws ) , but not as strong against that direction ( across the straws ) . If sliced against the direction of the grain of the meat , so that the straws are cut in half , the the impression is that the meat is more tender . For example , in fajitas , the traditional flank steak or skirt steak is cooked to no more than medium rare to medium ( to minimize the toughness
Soft bread is soft because CO2 produced by yeast and water that gets turned to steam by the baking process gets trapped into pockets by a mesh of gluten , causing the dough to expand . The dough then solidifies , keeping its shape . If your bread is not soft then it has n't expanded enough for one or more reasons : Dough too dry : as much as the yeast , water is responsible for getting a good rise in your bread . Gluten requires moisture to relax and stretch , forming the structure that traps the air that causes a rise , dough that is too dry wo n't form good gluten . Also , dough that is too dry wo n't have the elasticity to rise . Yeast needs water to do its work , dough that is too dry will inhibit the yeast . Also , the expansion of water into steam is as important for a good rise as yeast . If there 's one mistake many bakers make ( including myself for years ) it is making dough too dry . Yeast inactive or inhibited : if your yeast is old , came into contact with salt , or does n't have enough water to work then your yeast wo n't work well for you . Yeast does several things for you : it converts sugar into CO2 causing a rise , it improves the structure of your dough , and it adds flavor . Put the salt on the opposite side of the bowl from the yeast to avoid inhibiting it . Also , adding the yeast to sugary water does n't work well , especially with more modern yeasts . Just get quick acting yeast and add it to the flour bowl , then add water to that . The dough is not worked ( kneaded ) enough : Kneading improves the structure of your dough by stretching gluten molecules and getting them to link together , making your dough stretchy and pliable , and forming a structure that will trap air for a rise . Under-worked dough wo n't have enough structure the dough has been worked too much : as a home baker using hands this is unlikely , but still possible . Once you have the structure of the dough you need , stop and let it rise as any further working will form too much of a structure , making it too strong to expand Dough under-risen : the times in baking recipes are just guidelines , you need to go for a result rather than a time . I 've had books say 45 minutes but it takes 3 hours , especially if my yeast was old Dough over-risen : if your dough rises too long the yeast will exhaust the sugars in the dough and die out , leading to the loss of all the air . This will make the dough dense . For a nice soft sandwich bread I start with a really sticky dough . I then use it 's stickiness to stretch the dough , smearing it all over the countertop and using a pastry scraper to bring it back together . This is a really quick way to build some gluten . Then I knead in flour bit by bit , kneading for at least 1 minute between adding flour until I have a soft dough that still sticks a bit to the counter . That stickiness means that there 's enough moisture in the dough . I 'll add a bit more flour to that and then stop adding flour to avoid drying the dough . If I want to knead it more I 'll knead with a bit of vegetable oil instead to keep it from sticking . It 's consistency you 're looking for , not time . Time is relative depending on your strength and kneading technique , 5 minutes for a skilled and strong baker may translate to 15 minutes for normal humans , so knead until you have the consistency you want . When you start kneading the dough it will pull into pieces easily , and have a rough texture . As you knead that roughness disappears and it will stretch longer without breaking . For a sandwich loaf I 'll knead until I can stretch the dough from the middle of my torso to my knee without it breaking . Next , rising your dough may take much longer than recipes say as it all depends on the ambient temperature of the room , humidity , the activity of the yeast , and other factors . Again , make this results driven , not time driven . A good sandwich bread dough should rise a lot , not the " doubled " many recipes say . For me tripled is more like it . Make sure you put it in a big enough bowl ! This advice goes for the initial as well as the secondary rise in the pans . Let it rise enough in the pans until it looks like the recipe picture , that 's about right . Ideally your oven will have been pre-heating for 30 minutes by now . Now , slash your loaves the long way with a razor blade like a carpet knife , about 1/2 an inch down . Do it quick and avoid punching down the dough . Slashing will split the top skin and allow the dough to rise efficiently after you put it into the oven . Once you put it in the oven it 's going to rise a lot as the yeast goes crazy before the heat kills it , and the moisture in the dough is going to vaporize into steam . If you do n't slash you wo n't get as good a rise .
end question
start question
Is it safe to " salt bake " using ice cream rock salt ?
Reading through the <URL> on that episode of Good Eats it seems that he intended for the recipe to be done with the ice cream type rock salt : I also like plain old rock salt . Not only is it good for de-snowing , de-icing your , your front stoop , it 's good for , of course , making ice cream , and believe it or not , for baking stuff . That being said , I would personally feel fine using the rock salt since it does n't come in direct contact with the edible portion of the shrimp . But if I were buying bulk salt specifically to salt bake I 'd err on the side of caution and purchase <URL> which has very coarse grains and is safe for consumption .
I discussed a similar subject in this question : <URL> Raw fish is n't safe to eat if it 's just been sitting around . However , the raw fish used in sushi/sashimi has been frozen ( typically flash-frozen ) in order to kill any parasites , making it as safe as any other food . Most distributors of sashimi also have their own methods and internal regulations to ensure food safety , but specifics are understandably hard to come by . Suffice it to say , it 's far safer to eat properly-prepared nigiri or sashimi than it is to eat an undercooked hamburger .
For a substance to burn , it must first reach its ignition point . For it to keep burning , it must reach its fire point . The ignition point of a 40 % ABV liquid such as brandy is 26ºC / 79ºF , and the fire point is approximately 10ºC higher than that . What this means in practical terms is that you need to heat the alcohol a little first before you add it to the ice cream . The simplest way to do this is to put the alcohol in a ladle and heat it over the hob - it wo n't need much as 36ºC is not a great deal over room temperature . Then light it carefully with a long match , and pour it around your ice cream - if you 've got it warm enough it should keep burning until the alcohol is consumed .
Short answer : cream is far from ideal as a frying medium . In the US at least , heavy cream is about 35 % milkfat . Recently , I have learned the UK has a product called double cream which is closer to 50 % milkfat . So what is the rest of the cream , if it is only 50 % milkfat at the high end ? It is water , with dissolved milk solids and minerals . Even butter is only about 80 % milkfat -- the rest is an emulsion of water and milk solids in the main milkfat phase . When butter is made , one by product is buttermilk ( the old fashioned kind , as opposed to the modern cultured milk product ) which is the remainder of the liquid components in the cream after the butter precipitates . The essence of making ghee is separating the milkfat from the other components . What does all of this mean ? Cream would be far from an ideal medium for frying , as the water would have to evaporate before the temperature could rise to frying levels . It may be possible in some way by reducing the cream until only essentially the fat is left , and then frying in that , but it does n't seem very practical . I am not sure how you would do it without introducing many off flavors from scorching or burning the milk solids . I could not find any references to such a thing when googling , although the results for fried ice cream did tend to predominate . If you want to fry in cream -- use ghee . It is highly concentrated milkfat .
To extend what GdD said , the reason why yeast raised breads and quick breads are so different comes down to gluten development . Yeast raised breads have structure based on gluten , which is a protein created in wheat flours ( due to enzymatic action on other proteins in the flour ) over time in a moist environment , or when physically agitated . Gluten has a strong , elastic structure providing the toothsome bite typical of yeast raised breads . The techniques , which typically involve one or more of : Long , slow fermentation by yeast -- the physical raising of the dough not only leavens it , but also helps gluten development Kneading , to enhance quicker gluten formation So called autolysis , or allowing to set in cool conditions as a moist dough for slow gluten development without extra work from kneading The result is a strong gluten structure , trapping gas bubbles , giving the charactaristic texture of breads . Quick breads are the polar opposite . As a general class , they are intended to be tender and soft , not chewy and resilient . The " muffin method " used to create them intentionally minimizes gluten development by : Not using yeast to raise the dough Mixing a minimal amount to discourage gluten formation Baking immediately ( in most cases ) after the batter is combined , in order to mininize gluten development from sitting time in moist conditions . The result of course is a tender cake , bread , or muffin . Typical cake techniques such as the creaming method also control gluten development by : Pre-creaming the butter with sugar , and then adding the eggs prior to combining with flour . The fat/sugar phase then coats the flour particles minimizing their interaction , and discouraging gluten formation . Cake batters , like quick bread batters , are not usually held , minimizing time for passive gluten formation Each of these methods is tuned for the outcome desired , and they can not easily be swapped . That being said , there are quick breads which are less like the sweet cake like banana bread for example -- the most iconic is probably Irish soda bread , but this does not change the general fact that yeast raised breads are a very different beast due to the gluten development . Still , they are their own beast , and not like a yeast raised bread .
Having just returned from Hawaii , I actually have a possible answer for you . There is a type of ginger that you can get there ( though it 's not all that common , far as I could tell ) that 's called blue ginger . It 's just like regular ginger , only it has the blue layer inside as you describe . There was a guy selling it at a roadside fruit stand when we were there . It should be absolutely safe to use . edit : I found a link to somebody talking about it . <URL>
Salting the water in which you cook starches ( pasta , rice , potato ) is an effective way of enhancing the flavour of the finished product - boiling starches absorb salt well ( which is why adding chunks of potato to an overall salty stew will lessen the apparent saltiness of the dish . But salt does other things . When I am making roasted potatoes , I parboil them for 5 minutes before drying and roasting them in oil . if you divide them into two batches and boil one half in unsalted water and the other half in well salted water ( 1tbsp/2 quarts water ) , the salted potatoes will brown and crisp much better than the unsalted ones . I 'm not sure why this is , but I would encourage you to try it because it 's amazing to see .
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
Starch is extensively well-researched in food science , so the short answer is yes , there is an authoritative source ; there are a myriad of authoritative sources . The caveat ( there 's always a caveat ) is that food scientists are doing controlled experiments using far more sophisticated methods than pasta and a boiling pot , and they tend to be primarily interested in more theoretical questions than this , because there are an absurd number of variables at work in your own kitchen : Type and quantity of pasta ; Purity and quantity of the water ; Type , purity , and quantity of salt ; Water temperature ; Cooking time ; And so on ... So , really , to a scientist , the question " does adding salt to pasta water reduce sticking ? " is bordering on ridiculous . The answer is , as the answer often is , it depends . The following is taken from <URL> , an academic tome that is all about - you guessed it - starch . Effects of salts on gelatinization are more complex than those of nonionic solutes , as they are solute-specific and concentration-dependent . For most electrolytes , an increase in gelatinization temperature , Tm , is found at low salt concentrations . At high salt concentrations , Tm decreases and can even drop below the initial value . [ ... ] In general , the effect of neutral salts on starch gelatinization follows the order of the classical Hofmeister ( lyotropic ) series , particularly in the case of anions . [ ... but ] cations of different chloride salts exhibit a more complicated behavior as evidenced with polarizing microscopy . <URL> In plain English : Adding a little salt might reduce the gelation and thus sticking . Adding a lot of salt might increase gelation and sticking . The definition of " a little " and " a lot " depends on how much and what kinds of starch are in the pasta , what else might be in the pasta ( some already have salt ! ) , how dispersed the starch already is in the water , what kind of salt you 're using ... you get the idea . Incidentally , here 's the <URL> that the above refers to : <URL> Table salt is sodium chloride - NaCl . You 'll notice that Na + is about halfway to the " salt out " side and Cl - is right smack in the middle . So , even with my limited understanding of all the mechanics at work , it does stand to reason that the effects of having both would be unpredictable . It 's easier to predict the effects when you have something like calcium perchlorate , i.e. Ca ( ClO4 ) 2 , where both the anions and cations are on the " salt in " side . Obviously , those kinds of salts are not in your average home kitchen and I doubt that they 're even used in commercial food plants . ... although there are other <URL> other than sodium chloride , including <URL> AKA salmiac , the ( in ) famous " salty liquorice " salt . That is technically still " salt " . Which salt you choose will of course have wildly different effects on chemical properties including starch interaction . So hopefully this helps explain some of the wildly opposing anecdotal reports you 've read . There is no simple answer because your kitchen is not controlled conditions . However , there is some truth to the statement that salt inhibits starch gelation . It might have that effect , at the right concentration and with the right set of ingredients .
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
According to <URL> article , game birds including pheasant should be cooked to an internal temperature as follows : Whole 82 ° C ( 180 ° F ) Breasts and roasts 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Thighs , wings 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Stuffing ( cooked alone or in bird ) 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) These temperatures will be decidedly not pink ( except possibly around the bones ) , but will maximize the safety of eating game .
Salt serves two primary purposes in baking : To regulate yeast Salt kills yeast . The addition of salt to a yeast leavened dough prevents the little beasties from growing completely out of control . To enhance and mask specific flavors Salt is almost a universal flavor enhancer . Virtually anything that tastes good , will taste better with salt . What typically comes as a surprise to people is that this holds true with sweet things too , particularly chocolate . The addition of even a tiny bit of salt can make a sweet dish significantly sweeter . It also serves to mask the taste of raw flour . Update Also according to <URL> salt affects the strength and shelf life of baked goods .
Myth busters beware , are you ready ? Go ! No brining nor seasoning will make your chicken too salty . 5 % , 7 % , 10 % , The only sodium saturating process known to men is the injection , the needle injection , the so called " added solution " . If you 're only brining , you 're miles away from needle injection consequences , yet another misunderstood process . Brining is not to be feared , injections is . Edit ( after all these comments/questions showed up ) : Brining is a complex subject which I can not address here , and a lot of myths are floating around , mostly related to nuances , while people do not understand the enormous impact of : osmosis vs. diffusion , which ingredient are real actors in brining and which are not , among salt sugar fat acids alcohol herbs/flavors spices/Pungency / [ scoville scale ] what happens during passive brining vs. active cooking , including the effects of slow cooking vs. high heat the type of meat , the thickness of the meat , the duration of the brine/marination . You can debate this thing for days and years , but what matters here is the question . The assumption is " I marinated ( 5 % ) a chicken and now that my marination is over , I 'm thinking of seasoning ( salt ) before cooking . Am I running a risk to saturate the end product with sodium ? " The clear answer is NO , as long as your brine did n't last weeks , or your meat was not previously injected with a sodium solution , e.g 12 % or 15 % . The only time you have to worry about salt seasoning is when your meat has already been salted with injection , or if you just managed to cook a peace of meat with a higher than 5 % salt solution for more than a week , which wo n't happen unless we are talking about dried cured meat , which is an aberration as I 've never seen it . Please be careful with references to articles , books , so called scientific published papers . You really need to read them slowly and carefully , interpretation is key , understand where they came from , who wrote them , who paid for it , who 's getting paid for it , which is the source , ... etc , even if the almighty gods of molecular gastronomy are named on it . FYI : I 've been fighting a few USDA/FDA strict rules for years ( e.g. caning , meat temp ) , while believing their overall work is awesome .
Reading through the <URL> on that episode of Good Eats it seems that he intended for the recipe to be done with the ice cream type rock salt : I also like plain old rock salt . Not only is it good for de-snowing , de-icing your , your front stoop , it 's good for , of course , making ice cream , and believe it or not , for baking stuff . That being said , I would personally feel fine using the rock salt since it does n't come in direct contact with the edible portion of the shrimp . But if I were buying bulk salt specifically to salt bake I 'd err on the side of caution and purchase <URL> which has very coarse grains and is safe for consumption .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
It is true , in my experience . However , if your recipe does not require salt , you should not be adding it , of course . Removing moisture from onion with the aid of salt helps it reach its desired state ( brown or translucent , as desired ) faster . I am most familiar with the use of onion in Indian cooking . I generally add a pinch or two of salt to onion when I start sauteing it . Onion starts sweating as soon as you add salt and start stirring . The reason that salt draws out moisture from onion is osmotic pressure . The surface of the onion acts as a semipermeable membrane barrier . Since the solution outside the onion is more concentrated with respect to salt , water moves out of the onion to the general liquid side , to balance the osmotic pressure on either side of the onion surface .
Salt itself does n't really have a perceptible odour . However , salt added to other ingredients will usually react with some of them , which will indeed cause a change in the dish 's overall smell . There are several different reactions involved : Salt will draw fluids from most fruit , vegetables and meats . The fluids have an odour that was previously trapped within the food 's structure and is now available to your nose . Salt makes a fluid more acidic , which causes all sorts of changes . For instance , the difference in smell ( and other properties ) between a fresh cucumber and a pickled cucumber is mostly due to the brine , which is water with a high salt content . Salt may facilitate other chemical reactions in the organic molecules of the dish . Obviously , different molecules have a different smell . Each of these reactions may occur separately or together , depending on the specific ingredients used and a host of other factors , of course , but salt can definitely cause a change in the smell of a dish .
The salt in the cure inhibits bacterial growth ( particularly if the salt is one made for curing , and contains nitrates ) . So you should be warned that you are trading a few blood pressure points for enhanced risk of foodborne illness . Unfortunately , I think your options are rather limited -- either to keep the salt as-is , or forgo jerky in your diet .
Kosher salt is pure , like table salt , but without any iodine and ( usually ) without any anti-caking agents . Kosher salt crystals are also coarse , but flat , which makes them easy to dissolve or season/coat meat . Unprocessed sea salt is simply coarse ; the shape of the crystals ( whole or ground ) does not stick to meat particularly well and the impurities make it harder to dissolve properly in water . It does n't usually have minerals added ( unless it 's a really cheap kind possibly made from pre-iodized table salt ) , it just does n't have minerals removed like table salt . Kosher salt and sea salt are definitely not the same thing . Kosher salt can come from seawater , like sea salt , but the " kosher " part is all about the size and shape of the crystals , not their source . Sea salt is not a good idea for brining . It 's expensive and inefficient , and by the time the meat is cooked , any distinctness of flavour will have completely disappeared . Some of the minerals may even burn , depending on the cooking method . Instead , use kosher salt or table salt for brining and add sea salt as a seasoning afterward if you want . Using sea salt for cooking , brining , or other preparation is simply wasting it .
end question
start question
Is there any difference between cheap and expensive vodka ?
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
Butterscotch and caramel are very different things . The taste difference between the two is far from ' slight ' in my opinion . Caramel is typically made with granulated sugar , milk and/or cream , butter , and sometimes vanilla . The primary flavors of caramel are the sugar and milk/cream . Butterscotch on the other hand is made with brown sugar . It 's primary flavors are brown sugar and butter . It typically also contains milk/cream but they are not as prominent as caramel . Toffee is butterscotch that has been cooked to the <URL> stage . There is no liquor in butterscotch . There is a lot of leeway in what things get called caramel , butterscotch , and toffee . The important differences to keep in mind are that caramel is made with granulated sugar , whereas toffee and butterscotch are made with brown sugar and much more butter .
If you 've found a very old recipe that calls for scalding for food safety reasons , then yes , it is probably unnecessary . However , there are places where it is called for . In particular , when making Béchamel ( which is made by combining milk and roux ) , it is important to scald or at least warm the milk , otherwise you can and most likely will end up with lumps . The reason to actually scald as oppose to simply warming the milk tends to be one of cooking time ; the hotter the milk is , the less time you have to spend whisking . In general , any recipe that calls for milk and needs to thicken tends to benefit from scalding for the latter reason - it just takes less time to thicken that way .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
Leavening is rising by any means , so baking soda and baking powder ( chemical leaveners ) both apply here , as does yeast ( fermentation ) . Chemical leaveners like baking soda and powder work by mixing an acid ( varies , depending on the recipe ) and base ( usually baking soda in some form ) to produce carbon dioxide gas . Fermentation is the process of yeast converting sugars to carbon dioxide and alcohol . In bread making , the carbon dioxide is the desired product . In beer or wine making , the exact opposite . In both cases ( beer/wine and bread ) , other byproducts produced by the yeast add flavour and are highly desirable . There are other types of fermentation by bacteria ( such as those used in yogurt-making , pickles , or sauerkraut ) that produce lactic acid ; but those are somewhat outside of the scope of this answer ( although lactic acid fermentation by bacteria is responsible for the taste of sourdough breads ) . To specifically answer your question - yes , yeast breads undergo fermentation ( which is also leavening ) . Quick breads like banana bread use chemical leaveners , which are not fermentation .
It becomes quite confusing when talking about the difference between chow mein and lo mein mainly due to the error in translation . In Chinese chow mein literally translate as " fried noodles . " However when buying chow mein at a chinese restaurant , you get vegetables with a side of deep fried noodles . Somehow the title of a dish is referring the to side rather than the main dish which leads to much confusion . When talking about chow mein at a grocery store , it also gets confusing because you can get two types of noodles . The first kind is a fried noodle that looks something like this : This is definitely not what your recipe is referring to . The second type of chow mein you will find is very much similar to lo mein . It should be a raw noodles that is still semi-soft . It should look like this : If the chow mein you have at your grocery store resembles the second type of noodle , then you may use that as a substitute . If it resembles the first type , do n't . The first type is used as a topping sort of like chinese croutons .
Apple cider has two meanings , but they both start with raw , pressed juice from crushed apples . Soft apple cider ( normally just called cider ) is simply the pressed juice , bottled . It is cloudy from suspended apple particles , and turns brown from the oxidation , much as apples themselves do when cut and exposed to air . Hard apple cider is an alcoholic beverage made by allowing soft apple cider to ferment . Apple juice is essentially the squeezed juice from the apples that has been highly filtered to remove the suspended particulates . It is usually pasteurized to have a longer shelf life . UK Usage : Per ElendilTheTall , in the UK , the alcoholic beverage is called cider , and the other products are called simple apple juice . See also : <URL>
I agree that you can get some good meat from the head and could use it to flavour Bouillabaisse , i would n't however use it for stock as oily fish can lead to a cloudy fatty stock rather than the clearer and more flavoursome fish stock that can be derived from the off cuts and bones from white fish .
Potato pancakes are held together , usually with egg , sometimes flour as well . Hash Browns are usually just the potato , maybe onion and seasonings .
I used hon-mirin exclusively when I lived in Japan , simply because it tasted better . My Japanese neighbor was surprised that I could tell the difference , and confessed ( somewhat embarrassedly ) that she used aji-mirin since her family could n't tell the difference . However , I can not buy hon-mirin in the US ( I 'm not 21 , and hon-mirin is sold as wine while aji-mirin is cooking wine ) so I 've been using aji-mirin without detrimental effect .
Mincing produces smaller , more irregularly-shaped items than dicing . Dicing is generally uniform , usually 1/8 to 1/4 inch on all sides , kind of like a tiny cube . The best way to explain the size difference is visually , check out <URL> for a great picture near the top .
Traditionally <URL> used radiant heat to cook meat . This would have taken place over an open flame , typically on a rotating <URL> . In modern times this method is now called <URL> . Modern roasting refers to dry heat cooking that takes place in an oven , the food is cooked by <URL> . Until the late 19th century this method was referred to as baking . <URL> is essentially the same as roasting in modern times . Baking most often refers specifically to the cooking of " baked goods " ( breads , pastries , etc. ) . However , the terms baking and roasting are often used interchangeably ( baked chicken , roast chicken ) . There does n't seem to be a hard and fast rule here as to which term is used . For example , you roast asparagus , turkey , chicken , but bake lasagna , casseroles , and also chicken . <URL> uses a combination of moist and dry heat to cook the food . This is what occurs in a crock pot , or in dutch oven/stock pot in the oven . Your meat will be cooked in an ample amount of seasoned liquid such as wine and/or stock . <URL> I had never heard of before . According to Wikipedia it 's a trademarked method of pressurized deep frying . I doubt this is what you were referring to .
Pies originally were specifically to denote enclosed items ( the crust sealed the item that was to be eaten ) . In many cases , the crust was n't actually eaten -- it was a nasty charred thing that was discarded . In time , pie crusts improved to the point at which you 'd eat the whole thing ... but the star was the filling , not the crust . Tarts , on the other hand , are closer to a shortbread cookie with some sort of a topping . The crust is typically a critical part of the item , rather than just being a container for something else . ( which in part is why people mention tarts being more shallow ; there 's a higher proportion of crust to filling ) . So , my best attempt at determining if I should call something a pie or a tart . Note that these are in order . ( as I 'm trying to make sure that ' pizza ' is a pie , not a tat ) fully enclosed by crust : pie full bottom crust , with a crumb or lattice top : pie no crust at all : not a tart , but not a pie , either . has no sugar or fat in the crust : pie chewy , flaky or crumb crust : pie not structurally sound enough to be picked up and eaten one-handed : pie was cooked in a tart pan : tart baked without a pan : galette over 2 " / 5cm tall ( not counting whipped cream or berries ) : pie less than 6 " / 15cm across : tart shortbread crust : tart ... I have no idea what I 'd categorize thing that did n't match something already .
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
<URL> is a style / kind of a sauce that originated in Napoli usually made with tomatoes , garlic , herbs , and onions . A spaghetti sauce only says where to sauce is used ( obviously on <URL> ) but does n't say anything about what the sauce is exactly like . There are <URL> which are basically spaghetti + sauce : <URL> -- which literally translates to " spaghetti mariner 's style " <URL> -- " spaghetti with garlic and oil " , originated in Napoli <URL> -- " spaghetti whore-style " <URL> -- " spaghetti coal worker 's style " and , uhmmm ... <URL> -- an Italian-American invention
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
In the U.S. biscuits are made with chemical leavening , they use baking powder to cause them to rise . Rolls ( or dinner rolls ) are yeast bread . There are obviously other differences in the recipe ( s ) but baking powder vs. yeast is the essential difference .
Generally speaking , butter spreads have a water component to them . That 's what the emulsifier is for , as it keeps the fat and water from separating . The problem is that you ca n't fry/cook with it . If you place it in a pan it will separate , and sizzle in a very unpleasant manner . If I remember correctly , it actaully smells quite awful in the process . As for baking , I think it 'll be fine anywhere there needs to be fat as fat . Wherever you need fat as something to hold the structure , you had probably best not use it . Caveat emptor , as I do n't bake very much at all . Let it be aid , however , that margarine as opposed to butter spread , can be used anywhere that butter is used . It is n't as tasty , and has trans-fats . On the other hand , it has less cholesterol .
There are several factors that increase price . Some are related to the objective quality of the wine , some indirectly linked , other are rather disconnected from quality ( but not necessarily irrelevant , as we 'll see ) . It 's also worth noting that being of high quality does n't necessarily mean being appealing to the average consumer . Apart from the stuff listed below , mass-market wines tend to be made in a non-challenging , easily accessible style . Lower tannin levels , less acidity and a generous amount of residual sugar ( say 10-30g / l ) makes for easy quaffing but little complexity or elegance . They can be very well-made , but the agriculture may not be very sustainable , and the fruit probably is n't of the highest quality . ( If you visit a winery at harvest when they bring in the bulk wine fruit , the meaning of " quality " becomes rather apparent . ) Wines targeted at connoisseurs , wine snobs and wine geeks ( such as yours truly ) tend have more structure ( tannins , acidity ) and are more often completely dry ( although there are of course high-quality off-dry , semi-sweet , and sweet wines ) . There 's a limit to how much a producer can spend to increase quality , a limit which varies with location ( because of salaries for workers etc ) but around $ 100 per bottle is probably in the right order of magnitude . This does not mean that all wines above this magical limit are equally good , though . A dirt-cheap wine will also have a cost associated to it which will be payed for by someone else , like under-payed harvest workers , the environment around the vineyard , etc. . Below are some factors that have a more or less direct link to wine quality and/or character : Yield per acre : Limiting the vineyard 's yield per acre ( which can be achieved by sparser planting , thinning / <URL> , old vines , etc ) increases the quality of the fruit , but you will produce less wine with more or less the same amount of work , which means you 'll have to adjust the price . Number of harvesting tries : At harvest , you can pick all the fruit of one vineyard at the same time and be done with it . Unfortunately , not all bunches ripen at exactly the same time , so to avoid over - or under-ripe grapes , you can make multiple tries ( French , pronounced " trees " ) over several days and pick each bunch at optimal ripeness . More tries inevitably means more work , and so , price increases . Selection : When the harvest is brought in , you can throw all the fruit into the press , or you can select the best grapes to make your wine ( and make brandy or a <URL> of the discarded grapes , or sell them on to a bulk wine producer ) . Being picky reduces the amount of wine produced , and so , prices increase . Drying : Some wines , like <URL> and <URL> , are made from partially dried grapes , and drying decreases the amount of wine you produce ( apart from being extra work ) which means - more expensive wine . Sparkling : Sparkling wines made with the <URL> - like <URL> and <URL> - need to be disgorged after bottle fermentation , which leads to a certain amount of waste ( a Cava producer I talked to said that around 10 % of the original wine is lost in disgorgement ) . Oak aging : Many wines are <URL> , which greatly affects the character of the wine compared to other types of containers , like concrete or stainless steel vats . ( More oak does n't mean better wine , of course . ) Oak barrels are horribly more expensive than the alternatives ( and European oak is more expensive than American , and they impart different character ) , and so , the more oak you use , the more expensive the wine gets . Aging in general : Most high-quality wine receive a bit of aging before consumption to let all components integrate ; some designations of origin even require aging prior to selling . <URL> Gran Reserva , for example , must be aged at least three years , with at least one of those years being on oak , while vintage <URL> is mandated to rest three years on the <URL> , etc. . Apart from time being money , you also need a suitable storage location ( cool and humid but not too cool and humid , secure but accessible to yourself , etc ) which is far from free . The price increases . Other factors are n't causally linked to higher quality , but tend to be connected : Reputation : If you 're an unproven winemaker you will be able to charge more if you 're operating in a district of high repute than if you 're working in an area where no-one has made quality wine before . Conversely , a well-known , high-quality producer expanding their operations to a somewhat less proven district will likely be able to charge more than their new neighbours . Brand : Marketing can take many forms , such as it advertising , tailoring wines to suit <URL> , and tends to push prices up . Wineries can even try <URL> . You can also be lucky and find some great , undiscovered producer ( do n't tell anyone ! except me , that is ) selling their wines at more-or-less cost price ( which probably still wo n't be dirt cheap , though ) . Land prices : Some spots are better for growing grapes . If you 're in
end question
start question
How long can fresh yeast be frozen ?
The reason dry yeast is so popular is that it is easier to store , and is less persnickety about it than fresh yeast . Treat dry yeast right and it can last for a couple of years or more . Fresh yeast is highly perishable , and it should be frozen if you 're not going to use it within a couple of days . If you 're lucky , you can get significantly more time from fresh yeast by freezing it within just a day or two of getting it home . The thing is , yeast is a living thing and you just ca n't know what experiences it has had before arriving in your kitchen . As such , it 's impossible to predict just how much extra ( past the expiration date ) time you are going to get from freezing it . A month ? Probably . Two months ? I would n't count on it , but maybe . 6 months ? Highly unlikely , but stranger things have happened . If you do freeze fresh yeast , wrap it very well . Moisture and air are your enemies . Do put it in the refrigerator at least 12 hours prior to use , then let it spend the last hour on the counter . As a last step before putting together your dough , proof it . Proof the yeast by mixing it with the warm ( 100Fish ) water called for in the recipe and , if applicable , the sugar . If there is no sugar in the recipe , give it a 1/2 tsp of flour ( per loaf ) . Within 5-10 minutes it should be quite bubbly and growing . If it does n't look like it 's doing much , throw it away . You might as well throw away all of the yeast you have from that batch . Go to the store and get more yeast before proceeding with the recipe . Properly stored , yeast usually dies at least somewhat gradually . You may see a slight progressive decrease in the vigor of your yeast as it gets older . Personally , once I see that I 'll use it that time , but I 'll get more for next time . Anymore , fresh yeast is hardly seen except in professional bakeries . It 's easy to see why . If you 're going to make multiple loaves in a week , then maybe fresh yeast is worth it . Now that I have found 2 pound packages of Fleischmann 's instant dry yeast ( expiration almost 2 years out ) at Sam 's Club for $ 6 , I think my days of messing with fresh yeast are over . ( BTW 2lbs of dry yeast = about 130 loaves ) EDIT : Interestingly , Red Star disagrees and does n't recommend freezing fresh yeast . This goes against my experience and the cynic in me wonders of their recommendation has more to do with selling yeast than anything else .
From <URL> published by the United States Department of Agriculture : Is Frozen Food Safe ? Food stored constantly at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) will always be safe . Only the quality suffers with lengthy freezer storage . Freezing keeps food safe by slowing the movement of molecules , causing microbes to enter a dormant stage . Freezing preserves food for extended periods because it prevents the growth of microorganisms that cause both food spoilage and foodborne illness . Does Freezing Destroy Bacteria &amp; Parasites ? Freezing to 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) inactivates any microbes -- bacteria , yeasts and molds -- present in food . Once thawed , however , these microbes can again become active , multiplying under the right conditions to levels that can lead to foodborne illness . Since they will then grow at about the same rate as microorganisms on fresh food , you must handle thawed items as you would any perishable food . Trichina and other parasites can be destroyed by sub-zero freezing temperatures . However , very strict government-supervised conditions must be met . Home freezing can not be relied upon to destroy trichina . Thorough cooking , however , will destroy all parasites . Freshness &amp; Quality Freshness and quality at the time of freezing affect the condition of frozen foods . If frozen at peak quality , thawed foods emerge tasting better than foods frozen near the end of their useful life . So freeze items you wo n't use quickly sooner rather than later . Store all foods at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) or lower to retain vitamin content , color ,
When you are making blueberry muffins , frozen and fresh blueberries will give different end results . Frozen blueberries will almost " melt " when you bake the muffins , because the skin becomes more fragile after freezing . If you use fresh blueberries , they will be more intact after baking and will sometimes still " burst " when you bite into them . Which of these outcomes you prefer is entirely subjective ( though obviously frozen are better ) . As for the taste , some blueberries will have more taste than others . If they are grown out of season , they will most likely be flavourless . This goes for both fresh and frozen blueberries . I 've found a brand of frozen blueberries that I use for muffins that give a have a nice taste year around : others may be terrible . For the remark your wife made about frozen blueberries being rotten : I do n't know where you live , but that is most certainly forbidden in the US and Europe , and probably most places where frozen blueberries are available . That is the only part of her argument that was most definitely wrong . Everything else is subjective or depends on the specific brand of blueberries or even the time of year .
The part about blanching that is important is that the vegetables are briefly cooked and then immediately doused in cold water to stop the cooking process . Processors use boiling water as it is easier to manage and you can put flavorings and other additives ( preservatives , color enhancers , etc ) to the water to get the effect desired . There 's no reason you ca n't steam them instead as long as you dip them in ice water to arrest the cooking process . There 's some things that steam blanching would n't be good for , like removing the skins from tomatoes , for that boiling water is the way to go , but for preparing vegetables for the freezer it will work fine . Some considerations : Industrialization of the process : it 's easy to set up a line with a pot of boiling water and a bowl of ice water while using a basket to immerse . Steaming wo n't be as straightforward , and will be more time consuming . If you have a lot of vegetables you may want to consider boiling instead Safety : You will need to be able to move the vegetables from your steamer to the ice water quickly without getting scalded , so think about your setup and tools
Posted as answer by request of @BaffledCook : Here 's an slightly informal blog post outlining changes in taste between varying degrees of freshness in the grind of a coffee . <URL> The short version is that the coffee starts losing freshness as soon as it is ROASTED . The longer it sits the faster it goes stale . The more surface area it has ( ie : you 've ground it up ; also , the finer the grind ) , the faster it goes stale . The more you expose it to air , the faster it goes stale . So , seal your coffee in an air tight container at room temperature . And grind as close to the time you add water to it as possible . How much of a difference detected depends on the the actual coffee been , the roast , the taster 's taste buds . If you buy a bean that 's been sitting on the shelf for 3 months already , you will probably notice less of a difference than a bean that was roasted last week . I buy beans that are roasted and sold within a week , and I DO notice a difference if I leave the grounds for a day or two before drinking .
If you are really set on doing this , just use the same amount by weight or volume , preferably peeling the tomatoes first . ( Cut an x in the bottom , dip in boiling water for 10 seconds , pull off the peel ) . You 'll have plenty of liquid coming out of the tomato , do n't worry about that . But honestly , I do n't recommend doing this . Fresh tomatoes that are any good are so good uncooked that it is a waste , and fresh tomatoes that are n't good wo n't get better by cooking them . Even Mario Batali says you should use canned tomatoes for cooked sauces .
I 've not been able to use store bought cheese cloth more than twice and then only if I used it gently . And I 'm not gentle on the stuff . I use it for cheese making regularly as well as juicing and random filtering . I gave up on normal cheese cloth because it is too fragile and way too expensive for what it was . I now use instead a tightly woven polyester mesh fabric . I found a yard of it in the scraps section of the fabric store for $ 1 . A yard is about 3 times more than I will ever need . I cut it into smaller pieces and hemmed it . It is strong enough to be rung out full of grapes as well as laundered and a tight enough weave to filter small particles out of beef stock . I was surprised how often I end up using these cloths and highly recommend them .
You can also preserve herbs by wrapping them in damp paper towels ( either completely or just around the stems ) and then placing the bundle in an open plastic bag ( or one with holes poked in ) Replace or re-wet the towels when they get dry . It 's the equivalent of a vase without the worry about it spilling .
Most bakers refer to this as a starter and it is extremely easy to keep up . You will need a plastic bag or a jar to keep it in , a cup of warm water , and some flour . You can either grow some wild yeast or add a particular strain to the growth solution depending what you are trying to do with the yeast . Once you do that , just leave it someplace warm but not over 100 degree F . Then once a day , you feed the yeast by removing half and adding back a half cup of flour and a half cup of water . Once it starts foaming remove to the fridge and remember to feed once a week . It will be with you for the rest of the your time on earth . Also , that half you take out when you feed it ? Makes a great gift to other baking or cooking friends . Also , if you devolop a dark smelly liquid , just stir it back in , it is normal and nothing to worry about .
From what I can find , it contains ' dough relaxers ' so you can shape the dough without it springing back . It also claims you do n't need to let it rise , but it then tells you to bake your pizza for 30 minutes ! So it essentially rises in the oven . Compare this to ' proper ' dough which you let rise for a couple of hours , pull into shape and then bake in a screaming hot oven for 5 minutes tops . It strikes me that using pizza yeast is ' pizza for dummies ' ; claiming ' it stops it rising too much ' is nonsense because if the amount of yeast is correct in your recipe you control the rise anyway . So it depends on whether you like doing things easy or doing things right . You can bet your pepperoni slices they do n't use ' pizza yeast ' in Naples . Personally I cheat just a little and use dried fast-action yeast as it has a longer shelf-life and you do n't fuss around proving it , and my pizzas come out great .
Treat it like beef steak . Super-hot pan , slap it on , keep pressing it with your finger , when it feels very firm , it 's well done ; about 5-6 minutes a side in general but it will depend on thickness ; the finger test never lies . Let it rest for a few minutes after cooking .
The USDA recommends an internal temperature of 160ºF ( about 71ºC ) for pork to be considered safe to eat . The exact time and temperature for your oven will depend on many factors , so always use a probe thermometer to check . If you 're worried about it getting overdone , start checking the temperature a while before you expect it to be done ( based on your previous experiences ) . There are also thermometers which you can leave in the oven , and have a remote part that can sound an alarm when a certain temperature is reached . Also note that the internal temperature will continue to rise a bit after you remove the roast from the oven , so you may want to aim for a few degrees below your target temperature . 210ºC ( 410ºF ) does seem too hot to cook a roast , so I 'd aim for something on the lower end . Whatever time/temperature combo you use , it 's always the internal temperature of the roast that matters , both for safety and for taste .
Yes , you can freeze buttermilk . When thawed , the emulsion will break into solids and whey . This makes no difference for baked goods ; you can also use a blender to restore it to a smooth , thicker liquid if needed for applications like salad dressing . See also : <URL> . <URL>
Keep it airtight in a cool , dark place and it should remain good infefinitely . You 'll certainly be fine 1-2 years .
Sure it 's safe , there 's no risk in putting jam in baked goods . It says refrigerate after opening so it does n't spoil after being left out too long - some people do n't realize it needs to be refrigerated after opening because it is stored in the cupboard before opening . The important thing for food safety is to make sure that the pastries are eaten soon enough after baking . The cream cheese will go off sooner than the jam will , so do n't let them sit around .
I 'm writing this so it helps someone else . I decided to freeze my fondant because I did n't have time to air dry the fondant like @Sunishtha Singh suggested . I did n't want the fondant to become too dry either by adding the tylose/CMC powder or use the gum paste/satin ice because personally , I prefer the flavour of fondant better than gumpaste . So , I found <URL> link and <URL> one and decided to follow the instructions . But I did add a bit of guess work and common sense and instead of freezing the fondant panels for 15-20 minutes , I only froze for 10 minutes and did n't open the fridge/freezer until the 10 minutes were finished . I also put the panels in the freezer at the same time and worked very quickly to attach the panels once the 10 minutes were finished . Once I attached the panels , I switched on the aircon but not for more than 15-20 minutes and it seemed to be fine , even considering that it had been raining all day . I do n't know what role does the fridge play in this but I have a frost free fridge . I also used black fondant for the panels and even though I personally find it much more moist than the white fondant , the panels attached nicely and the shoebox looked very smooth , at least from the sides . I hope this helps someone and I give the fondant freezing a thumbs up :)
Broiling fish is extremely easy , although I would recommend saucing the fish after it is cooked as your BBQ sauce will most likely burn under the heat from the broiler . Your food should be about 8 to 12 inches away form the heat source , but most under oven broilers have a fixed height away from the flame . You need to make sure that your fish is fully scaled before cooking and you should season it with salt and pepper as well . Lay the fish on a pan , making sure that you lay it skin side down and that there is room on each side of each piece . Turn on your flame and slide the fish under the broiler , remove when the fish is flaky , white and lightly browned on top . If you are unsure if it is done , take a fork and twist it in the flesh of the fish and it should flake away fully white , it 's done . Then add your sauce and serve . Additionally , BBQ sauce will mostly overpower the flavor of your tilapia , you might find that whipping up a butter sauce or a white wine sauce will suit you better . Also , alot of fish does well with just a little salt , pepper , and lemon juice .
Yes , it will " make it last longer in the fridge " for a certain definition of " last longer " : it will not mould nor infect other foodstuffs in the fridge if it does n't come into direct contact with any of them . Is it still safe to eat after a few of these re-heatings ? Very probably not ! Elaboration : More then half of the number of cells in your body are actually bacteria ; bacteria do n't generally kill you but the toxins they release is what kills you . E.g. Botulinum Toxinum D ( one of the toxins released during Botulism ) has an LD50 of 0.4 ng/kg , which means that you need about 500g ( a pound ) to kill 99.9 % of all human beings on the entire planet ... ( And that is for just a few re-heatings ; for " nearly indefinitely " we need to bring extremophiles in the equation ... ) <URL>
I do n't believe you would want to try to leaven bread with beer only , though you could certainly use it as a flavoring . First , the amount of yeast still present in a brewed batch of beer is very low . Beers that have been <URL> ( or bottle conditioned ) will have more than others but , particularly with high gravity beers ( beers with a lot of alcohol ) , a lot of the yeast has died due to the alcohol content or been removed by the manufacturer to clarify the brew ( yeasts make beer cloudy ) . Plus , beer yeast and bread yeast are very different things : From the info <URL> : Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce different proportions of carbon dioxide and alcohol . Baker 's yeast is a blend of several strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chosen for their flavor and ability to make carbon dioxide , which causes bread to rise . Brewer 's yeast is made of strains chosen for their alcohol-producing ability and tends to have a bitter flavor . Brewer 's yeast is considered an inactive yeast while baker 's yeast is an active yeast . In an active yeast the yeast cells are still alive , whereas they are killed in the process of making inactive yeasts , like brewer 's yeast . Brewer 's yeast is used to brew homemade wines and beers , while baker 's yeast makes bread rise . You ca n't brew alcohol with baker 's yeast and you ca n't leaven bread with brewer 's yeast .
It 's going to depend on the material your ramekins are made from . If you have glass ones , maybe they 'll break . But the typical porcelain ones should be fine . Keep in mind they 're used for crème brûlée , which is prepared by chilling to set , followed by topping with some sugar , then caramelizing by either a torch or placing right under a broiler . Cold to broiler or torch is a much bigger thermal shock than cold to cold to oven .
end question
start question
Liquid nitrogen ice cream in food processor ?
As someone who uses liquid nitrogen as part of their daily routine ( in a lab ) and who has made liquid nitrogen ice cream on several occasions , my advice would be to not use a plastic container to hold liquid nitrogen unless it 's designed to . Yes , the plastic vessel may become brittle and may fracture . I have seen some materials shatter with extreme violence when frozen with liquid nitrogen ; do not attempt this . Vessels for handling cryogenic liquids are designed especially for the job , and made from materials such as stainless steel , styrofoam , teflon , HDPE or silvered borosilicate glass . Unless you know with certainty that your container is designed to withstand temperatures of -196 & deg ; C ( -321 & deg ; F ) , do not attempt this procedure .
Many hydrocolloids are very heat tolerant . <URL> Some of the options that might work for you are : <URL> A polysaccharide made from boiling seaweed , agar agar is heat stable up to about 90C . It gels when cooled to 40C . It is inexpensive and easy to find , especially in Asian markets . It would be relatively easy to coat the inside of a cone by heating the agar agar to 90C , cooling it almost to 40C and pouring into very cold cones and pouring out the excess ungelled liquid . Obviously it wo n't work if your liquid is hotter than 90C . <URL> Like agar agar , pectin is a polysaccharide but it is extracted from fruit . Regular , off the shelf , pectin that requires a lot of sugar is HM Pectin . It will melt easily . LM Pectin on the other hand , requires calcium to gel . Once gelled it is heat stable and will not melt again . Unless you have a well stocked specialty pastry supply store handy you may have to buy this online and it will definitely cost more than the agar agar . Sodium Alginate Like LM Pectin , sodium alginate gels in the presence of calcium . Often used to make " caviar " preparations of random liquids . It is easier to find for sale as part of molecular gastronomy kits . It forms a heat stable gel but you 'd have to be creative about how to coat a waffle cone with it . Perhaps you could form a sheet of it and " glue " it into the waffle cone . All in all , if your liquid is cooler than 90C , for cost and ease of use I would recommend going with the agar agar .
I would think this is happening because your cream is just about to turn sour . As cream ages , lactic acid builds up in it . The acidity in your coffee is enough at that point to push the cream over the edge to curdling . Try newer cream or a very low-acid coffee with old cream and you should be OK .
That bit of the Wikipedia article is unsourced , but <URL> and says that spores may be present even in pasteurized honey . ( I never would have thought that . ) I would n't expect the cooking of the crackers to damage the spores significantly more than the pasteurization . I ca n't say for sure that there will be live spores in the crackers , but it 's a definite possibility and if you 're concerned about this then you should not risk it .
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
Reading through the <URL> on that episode of Good Eats it seems that he intended for the recipe to be done with the ice cream type rock salt : I also like plain old rock salt . Not only is it good for de-snowing , de-icing your , your front stoop , it 's good for , of course , making ice cream , and believe it or not , for baking stuff . That being said , I would personally feel fine using the rock salt since it does n't come in direct contact with the edible portion of the shrimp . But if I were buying bulk salt specifically to salt bake I 'd err on the side of caution and purchase <URL> which has very coarse grains and is safe for consumption .
The Nordic Food Lab , founded by René Redzepi , has experimented with blood as egg substitute , full blog entry including recipes <URL> . Apparently texture-wise the substitution can be possible , but the typical bloody aftertaste is hard to mask , which might have to do with the physiological way the metallic taste is perceived . It seems especially women tend to recognize this ingredient quite easily .
Brew it strong and then add ice . Alternately , freeze some coffee in ice cube trays and use those frozen coffee cubes to chill the new batch without diluting it . Agitation ( shaking ) with cubes is a good substitute for crushed ice -- both ensure that the hot coffee meets the cold surface of the ice quickly . If you sweeten your iced coffee , using chilled simple syrup will help cool the brew and avoid problems getting the sugar to dissolve ( sugar does n't dissolve well in cold liquids ) .
You could try <URL> : Stick it in the freezer , and skim off the ice . Keep the ice , discard the liquid and melt the ice . If you had a freezer that you could precisely control the temperature , I believe there are certain preferred target temperatures , but simply checking on it frequently in a standard freezer should do the trick . The vacuum based suggestions also sound good , if you have appropriate equipment for that . Basically , you 're asking about distillation in reverse . Traditional distillation is primarily boiling , but there 's also a few traditions ( applejack , <URL> ) involving ice distillation . In ice distillation they 're after a higher alcohol product and keeping the liquid ( discarding the ice ) , but I believe if you switch which part you keep you 'll get the same results . Much like any other distillation , you may need to run through the process multiple times to get the desired result . With beer , the primary flavoring is from compounds extracted from hops , which react with oxygen to produce unpleasant flavors . By " unpleasant " I mean turning the bitter and tangy flavors into something more like wet cardboard . So depending on what you 're doing you may also need to protect your beer from exposure to oxygen . I believe with beer the real enemy is oxygen , with heat or light accelerating the undesirable reactions . Depending on the style of beer , esters and phenols may also be important to the flavor . In styles where those flavors are desired , it 's typically a wide mix , and it 's quite possible some of them will evaporate easier than alcohol or be harder to freeze . Note that no distillation method is " perfect " , with all distillation methods you 'll have water and alcohol in both outputs of the process , you 'll just have a greater amount of alcohol in the evaporated or unfrozen part and a lesser amount in the unevaporated or frozen part . Note also that in the US any <URL> .
Thinking about this from first principles , a banana is about : 75 % water 20 % carbohydrates ( mostly sugar and a small amount of starch ) Less than 5 % combined fiber and protein Trace amount of fat ( generally considered to be zero ) . The anti-crystallization effect of guar gum works on the water component , so adding a small amount of guar gum actually should be of some benefit . The hard part is getting it all dispersed ; you do n't want to over-process the banana ( you 'd lose the creaminess ) but you also need to hydrate the guar gum in order for it to work its magic . You also need to avoid over-thickening , which might be difficult even with the very small starch content in a typical banana . Bananas convert more starch to sugar as they ripen , so I suspect you 'd have more success trying this on very ripe bananas that are , essentially , little more than sugar and water to begin with . Incorporating and maintaining air is something that I just do n't think you 're going to be able to do . Proteins and fats can both participate in foaming ( egg whites being an example of the former , and heavy cream being the canonical example of the latter ) , but bananas have neither of those . There 's simply nothing to whip , and thus nothing to stabilize , so neither xanthan gum nor any other emulsifier/stabilizer is going to do you much good here . If you really want to incorporate air then you 're going to need more than one ingredient . My instinct would be to say coconut milk , which has relatively high fat and pairs well with banana ( and obviously is also vegan / non-dairy ) , but I can say from experience now that coconut milk just does n't have enough fat . You could try cooking it down first to get the fat ratio up , or using coconut oil , but I 'm not sure how it would taste . Traditional ice cream is about 60 % water , which means the amount of guar gum that most people seem to get the best results with ( about 1 tsp/qt ) is about 0.87 % of the total water . For a small ( 100 g ) banana , that 's about 75 mL of water corresponding to very close to 1/8 tsp of guar gum . So , I 'd give this a try with 1/8 tsp of guar gum , forget the xanthan gum . Try adding it after you 've frozen the banana for the first time , when you first pop it into the blender . No guarantees , but , you can probably afford to waste one banana in the attempt . Update : I thought I 'd give this a try myself since ( a ) it seemed pretty easy and ( b ) I can always use more non-dairy dessert recipes . Here 's how it came out with 1/4 tsp of guar gum for 2 bananas , after being frozen for two days : You can see that ice crystal formation is pretty minimal , and although some parts did harden a bit ( much like ordinary homemade ice cream with low overrun ) , they returned to normal consistency within just a few minutes . Of course it still tastes like frozen bananas , so if I were to do this again I think I 'd probably try adding a few other flavours . Also note that even though the texture is decent , the colour is getting dark , and I have no doubt that this would eventually turn black after enough time in the freezer - and the lemon juice trick does n't really work so well when the whole thing has been blended up .
Sure , why not ? It probably wo n't turn out quite like the stuff you get at the store , but all you need is cream , a way to churn air into it , and enough agitation that the milk fat molecules start to clump together . It will require some manual work once you 've got the butter and buttercream separated . But the food processor will get you most of the way there without too much of an arm workout . Check out this <URL> with a food processor .
There are three major properties of the liquids : Fat based ( oil , melted butter , bacon drippings , and on ) versus water based ( milk , juice , water , and so on ) . Flavor - some liquids , juices and to a lesser extent , milk have a distinct flavor that will effect the bread Acid - Some liquids , like orange juice , are more acid and affect the pH of the dough Not every liquid falls neatly into these exact categories . Milk , for example , is about 87 % water , 4 % fat , and the rest is sugars and proteins . These differences are often insignificant compared to the overall bread recipe . In general , you can substitute fat-based liquids for other fat based ingredients , and water based liquids for other water based liquids . Most breads also have the capacity to carry additional fats and sugars ( called enrichment ) , which at its extreme leads to breads like brioche which are very sweet and fatty . Eggs are a complex ingredient in that the whites are mostly water , with some protein ( albumin ) , and the yolks are about 50 % water and 50 % fat . See related : <URL> Note that in a bread recipe , with so few ingredients and a deceptively complex chemistry , all of the ingredients have a role to play in the chemistry , so the major factors you are looking at are the overall total ratios of fat , sugar , and water to the flour . Accent ingredients would be add ins like carway seeds in rye bread which do n't incorporate into the dough . In regards to your desire for more olive oil flavor , you almost certainly can substitute olive oil for any fats already in the recipe with comparable results . Most dought can even carry a little more fat , although this will inhibit yeast growth and gluten development , so that you will need more kneading and more proofing time . You can also brush the crust with olive oil before or after baking . The very best way to get olive oil flavor into your bread is to dip it in oil when you eat it . This also allows you to get the full flavor of a quality oil , as many nuances would be lost if it was baked into the bread .
First of all - glucose is a different sugar than table sugar . Corn syrup in the US is similar but has a few extra compounds . As far as I can tell it is used for similar reasons as liquid glucose in the EU . <URL> It is used for a couple reasons : it is thicker than sugar syrups . when making candy a little corn syrup can be added to the sugar solution to prevent crystallization . in the US at least , it is much cheaper than cane sugar . You can buy it in stores here - I ca n't say whether you can in Belgium . I have , on occasion , been forced to use a very thick sugar syrup in place of corn syrup . The recipe used the syrup for reason # 1 above and turned out well . If it had been in there for reason # 2 it would have been less successful . In general , if you can find it , it is probably better to buy than to make a substitute because of reason # 3 .
Salty marinades work best , both for altering the flavor profile of the protein and for adding liquid to the cut . Since sous vide is a technique that works in a vacuum-sealed bag , liquid does n't evaporate from the cut during the cooking process . I would say do this : 1 . Brinerade the cut for a short period of time ( depends on the size of the cut ) 2 . Dry the meat really well . 3 . Sous vide the crap out of that tasty cut ! 4 . Re-dry the meat , if necessary ! 5 . Sear the cut ( browning adds flavor ) in a rippin ' hot pan to form a crust . 6 . Enjoy !
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
If you want to be certain , I suppose you should ask the canning company . I ca n't speak for all countries , but in the U.S. , I 'm pretty sure the usual nutritional information reflects the total contents ( with liquid ) , unless the nutritional information explicitly specifies " drained , " e.g. , " Serving Size : 1/2 cup beans ( drained ) . " The relevant regulation appears to be from the Code of Food Regulations , Title 21 , <URL> : ( 9 ) The declaration of nutrient and food component content shall be on the basis of food as packaged or purchased with the exception of raw fish covered under 101.42 ( see 101.44 ) , packaged single-ingredient products that consist of fish or game meat as provided for in paragraph ( j ) ( 11 ) of this section , and of foods that are packed or canned in water , brine , or oil but whose liquid packing medium is not customarily consumed ( e.g. , canned fish , maraschino cherries , pickled fruits , and pickled vegetables ) . Declaration of nutrient and food component content of raw fish shall follow the provisions in 101.45 . Declaration of the nutrient and food component content of foods that are packed in liquid which is not customarily consumed shall be based on the drained solids . But how do we know whether the bean liquid is " customarily consumed " ? For most foods , we can go to <URL> , which gives instructions for isolating the " edible portion " of foods for nutritional analysis . Alas , that does not help either , since there are no instructions specifically for canned beans . Some canned vegetables are apparently often analyzed drained , but canned beans with sauces ( e.g. , pork and beans , chili and beans ) are explicitly listed with instructions NOT to drain . There 's no listing for plain beans . Yet there 's a clue in the <URL> ( p. 97 ) : Data for canned legumes were often developed for the purpose of nutritional labeling ; therefore data are presented for the total can contents . During the canning process , and sometimes during cooking , the cotyledons of legumes rupture , releasing starch into the brine ; therefore , draining of the liquid medium is difficult . However , cooks do generally drain these products . Some packers may add sugar to certain canned legumes and this may also affect the nutrient content . Another clue is in the reference amount for suggested serving size of beans in the <URL> , which has the following qualifications : Beans , plain or in sauce : 130 g for beans in sauce or canned liquid and refried beans prepared ; 90 g for others prepared ; 35 g dry . My experience is that I almost always see 130g as the serving size on canned beans in the U.S. , suggesting that they are following the above nutritional guidelines from the FDA and USDA and would include any sauce or canned liquid in nutritional analysis . ( Also , in the past I 've compared this 130g approximate serving size to the number of servings listed on a typical can of beans , and the only way to get close to the estimated number of servings is by counting the liquid . Usually the beans alone will weigh significantly less than the number of servings . ) Lastly , I would note that in the case of plain beans , the canning liquid likely contains only a small amount of calories anyway . For beans listed as being " in sauce , " clearly the implication is that one could consume the " sauce " and therefore any calories in it would be included . All of that said , the fact that there 's no explicit mention of beans in the first two documents I linked leaves a little " wiggle-room , " and thus I do n't think a bean canning operation would be in violation of U.S. labeling regulations if they drained the beans before calculating nutritional content . ( Though I 'm not a lawyer , so this is speculation . ) But various other documents -- including the other two I cited -- seem to indicate that including bean canning liquid for nutritional purposes is the norm in the U.S.
As someone who uses liquid nitrogen as part of their daily routine ( in a lab ) and who has made liquid nitrogen ice cream on several occasions , my advice would be to not use a plastic container to hold liquid nitrogen unless it 's designed to . Yes , the plastic vessel may become brittle and may fracture . I have seen some materials shatter with extreme violence when frozen with liquid nitrogen ; do not attempt this . Vessels for handling cryogenic liquids are designed especially for the job , and made from materials such as stainless steel , styrofoam , teflon , HDPE or silvered borosilicate glass . Unless you know with certainty that your container is designed to withstand temperatures of -196 & deg ; C ( -321 & deg ; F ) , do not attempt this procedure .
Hey guys , since the question was posted they opened up <URL> , which specifically caters to this need . They supply chemicals for molecular gastronomy in consumer-sized portions . For $ 10 or less apiece , you can order small amounts of emulsifiers , gelling agents , foaming agents , etc. . They also have spherification kits , the Texturas products , and Molecule-R 's lineup .
You could use sugar substitutes but you should take care to use one that is heat stable . Sugar Substitute with Stevia as main ingredient can be used but you need to inquire to what ratios you would need to use your specific brand with . Acesulfame Potassium is heat stable but is 200 times sweeter than regular sugar . The general rule of thumb I was taught is 1 gram per quarter cup of sugar . Sucralose : Granulated sucralose can be used as an equal-volume substitute for sugar . ( Raw sucralose is 600 times sweeter than sugar , so you 'd use less , but the granulated form contains fillers to bring it up to the normal volume . ) There may be some considerations in making ice cream with this as when using this for baking the baking process is accelerated to a certain degree . Be careful with this one . Saccharin and Aspartame should be avoided because they are heat sensitive . Other more natural sugar substitutes include honey , fruit juice concentrates and refined fructose .
Whipped cream is whipping cream after it has been whipped . Whipping cream is just cream with at least 30 % fat content ( that would be called Light Whipping Cream in the US ) . Heavy Whipping Cream contains at least 36 % fat and up to 40 % and rarely ( in the US ) even higher . Until these creams are whipped , they are just liquid . After they are whipped , they 're fluffy . A way to know that whipped cream is " done " is that it holds " peaks " , like in the first picture . Higher fat cream will thicken more readily , and hold its structure longer . Other countries use different terms for various levels of fat in cream . <URL> Whipped Cream : Whipping cream :
end question
start question
Why stretch and fold vs traditional kneading of bread dough ?
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
Hot gasses such as steam and CO2 trapped inside the dough by the crust are important to help properly bake the bread , as well as to give it form and structure . If you cut a slice off the end of the bread before the bread has finished baking , you completely change the conditions under which the bread finishes baking : steam will escape rather than building up , the internal temperature probably wo n't rise as much , and the bread will tend to dry out rather than cook . If you 're not sure whether your bread is done , you should take its temperature . An instant-read , digital thermometer with as fine a probe as possible is best because it compromises the crust the least . For the same reasons , you should let bread cool as @justkt suggests before cutting into the loaf . Bread smells great when it 's hot , but it tastes best when it has cooled somewhat .
Although nowadays both are ubiquitous in Italy ( and abroad ) , dried pasta and fresh egg pasta are traditionally associated with different regions of Italy . Dried durum-wheat pasta originated in the old Kingdom of the two Sicilies , which encompassed the entire Southern Italy , including the island of Sicily , and had its capital city in Naples . Oldest historical records associate the production and consumption of dried pasta with Sicily , but one of the best renowned home of pastifici ( artisanal pasta production places ) from time immemorial is the town of Gragnano , in the province of Naples . Still today , the humble spaghetti with tomatoes and basil is one of the iconic food of Naples . Fresh egg pasta ( " fresh " here is referred to pasta , not to eggs , as in " not essiccated " ) is linked to the historical region of Emilia , part of the River Po Valley . It is worth mentioning that from a historical point of view this is the reason why spaghetti alla bolognese , one of the best known Italian dishes abroad , is actually a fake one : " bolognese " means " from the city of Bologna " , which is the largest city of Emilia . For this reason it was always supposed , from its very own " design " , to go well with tagliatelle , which is a classic fresh pasta format .
I used to remove the paddle before the second rising to avoid breaking the bread . Did not find any other good way of doing it .
I can not speak to the historical trends in the UK , but in the US , the rise of commercial , sandwich style bread is part of a larger set of food trends that took place after World War II , into the 1950s . Housewives were looking to reduce the amount of labor they spent in the kitchen , such as baking from scratch , while simultaneously there was a trend towards processed " scientific " products that were seen as pure and wholesome at the time . See this article from <URL> for more information . I would argue that the modern is actually moving away to this with the " slow food " and " whole food " trend , and the rising availability of more traditional loaves in regular grocery stores , and increased awareness again of home baking . In fact , recently , whole wheat and whole grain bread has passed white bread in popularity according <URL> from the Chicago Tribune .
You can refrigerate all kinds of yeast-bread dough . Right after kneading , before the dough has had a chance to rise , oil the dough lightly , cover with plastic wrap or use a ziplock , and place in the refrigerator . As the dough cools in the refrigerator the action of the yeast will slow down until the dough has reached refrigeration temperature . At that point the yeast is still working , but at a snail 's pace . So , during the first few hours in the fridge it may require a punch down or two , as there may still be enough warmth in the dough for the yeast to show active signs of life . After the dough is completely cool , it may not need anything from you , but still check it at least every 12 hours or so - it may need another punch down . If at any point it grows to close to double it 's original size , go ahead and punch it down . Most doughs will be fine if babysat like this for up to 3 or 4 days . When you 're ready to bake , punch down the dough again ( if necessary ) , shape , and allow to rise as if it had never taken its little nap in the refrigerator . Of course this rise is going to take longer than non-refrigerated dough as it reaches room temperature , but it should be ready to bake when it looks like a non-refrigerated dough of the same type would look when it 's ready to bake . Bake as usual . I 'm sure there are exceptions to the basic rules I 've set out , but I 've never had a problem doing this with any yeast-bread dough .
A very sharp blade with minimum drag . The traditional tool is called a lame - basically just a curved <URL> on a handle . If you make a lot of bread you might consider buying this unitasker . ( <URL> ) You can use a kitchen knife if yours are very sharp but I 've had the best results with a straight razor blade . I 've read of people using serrated blades but they always mutilated my bread . A little bit of non stick spray will do wonders at keeping the blade from binding up in the dough . The rest is technique . Make each score in a single cut if possible . Instructions often say to make " deliberate slashes " . Plan out where you want the cut then slash confidently . Multiple slashes or slow or halting cuts will do more damage to the loaf .
I 've seen bread recipes like the one that you described . When bread is baked in an oven with steam - the starch in the crust is able to gelatinize before it all dries out and becomes crispy . This is what makes the crust crisp , shiny , and delicious - characteristic of " artisan " breads . Most people do n't have steam enhanced ovens ( or the ability to hack their oven to add steam : <URL> ) The recipe you linked has water added for steam but then takes out extra insurance ( they cheat ) by adding the cornstarch glaze to mimic the effect . By adding extra , pure , starch on the surface of the loaf more gelatinization occurs . Additionally , cornstarch gelatinizes at a lower temperature that wheat starch . Conceivably , you should be able to use any starch and see similar results but , in the US at least , cornstarch is by far the most common . It should n't be necessary if you are able to produce enough steam in your oven .
It 's just how long you dry them . Thin apple slices work best for crunchy chips and then just dry them till they 're crunchy - sometimes as much as 18-20 hours . Soft , chewy dehydrated apples just go for a shorter time .
Much of the bitterness in breads made from whole wheat is caused by the phenolic acid and tannins in the bran layer of the wheat . Different varieties of wheat have different levels of those compounds and produce breads with different levels of bitterness . " Traditional " varieties of wheat , such as red wheat , contain high levels of tannins , while hard white spring wheat contains relatively low levels of tannins . Here is what <URL> has to say about this subject : With whole wheat , taste differences boil down to the tannin content of the bran . These red pigments in hard red wheat carry a bitter flavor . " ... Whiter whole-grain varieties typically contain fewer tannins , which results in a less bitter taste , " said Brook Carson , technical product manager , ADM Milling , Shawnee Mission , Kansas . " Differences in taste can also be overcome with added sweetness or with a masking agent . " Based on your question , it sounds likely the Pillsbury Chakki Fresh Atta whole wheat flour you use for making parathas is milled from either hard white spring wheat or a blend of the white wheat with a more traditional variety of wheat resulting in a non-bitter end product . There is another possible source of bitterness in bread made from whole wheat flour , although it should n't really affect commercially made bread . When whole wheat flour is milled , it includes the oil containing wheat germ , which is different than refined white flour where the wheat germ is removed prior to milling . This oil in the whole wheat flour results in it having a much shorter shelf life than white flour and makes it susceptible to rancidity if not stored properly . Commercial bakeries go through ( literally ) tons of flour , so their whole wheat flour should n't be sitting around long enough to go bad . I can tell you from first-hand experience , one of the signs whole wheat flour has started to go rancid is an increase in bitterness .
Yes , you can refrigerate after the machine has kneaded the dough . Cover the bowl tightly . In the morning , take the dough out of the fridge and let it ' wake up ' in a warm place for an hour , cut and shape , then either prove them again or bake straight away ( a second prove will give you a lighter texture ) .
You 've answered your own question , it 's size and shape . You could buy a roast and slice it into chops and you 'd get the same thing as if the butcher does it . That 's if they are both pork sirloin , sometimes there can be confusion between sirloin and tenderloin , which are not the same thing .
If I were to guess , it would be that the ones that call for a lively simmer are sauces , soups , or other thicker liquids . The lively simmer in that case would refer something close to a light boil . For instance , tomato sauce simmers even when you have it on low , but if you were to cut the temperature up to a medium low , it would bubble much more actively and to me would be considered a lively simmer .
I think your ' troubleshooter ' and the desire to know what to do to get a different result ( ' more chew , or a flaky crust , etc ) are definitely one in the same . You 'll need to understand the basic chemistry of bread ( and some critical techniques as well ) . Baking in general is more ( not all ) chemistry than normal cooking . If you throw too much of something in , it may not just taste different , but change the entire critical chemical reaction in the oven . Once that 's cemented in your head , then if your bread does n't rise , you immediately know that its one of a few things . If you want a crisp crust , you 'll know what to add . Its the same knowledge . The best two references that I 've read in regards to this are : <URL> - Its pretty much a classic now and a must read for anybody wanting to get into baking . Its got great chemistry , technique , and recipes in it.This is the book that made MANY things with bread just ' click ' with me . A large chunk of this book deals with sourdough . <URL> - Just like on TV , he goes through the why and the how of everything . It 's a general baking book - not just for bread , but there 's a whole section on dough . I like the techniques and understanding here , but found the recipes to be a bit lackluster . ( He 's got pancake info here too ! ) Additionally , I 'd encourage you to ask specific problems in regards to your bread issue on here . There 's a wealth of knowledge on the site and absorbing some via here would be a perfectly valid resource .
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
I can not speak to price ; I have n't comparison-shopped with this feature in mind . However , I have used various home gas ranges with either type of broiler . I 'll go ahead and sum it up : tl ; dr : I greatly prefer an in-oven broiler . Here 's why . First , positioning . Broiler drawers are typically located at the very bottom of the range , underneath the actual oven . This means that in order to place food in or take it out , you 've got to bend all the way down to the floor . I hope the ergonomic challenge here is obvious , but I have safety concerns as well . If you have never tried to cook 10 pounds of flank steak in a broiler drawer , then learn from my experience : it 's less than optimal . You will wind up bent over at the waist when pulling your finished steaks , end up tilting your pan and spilling meat juice on the way to the top of the range , and just barely manage to kick the drawer closed before your dog licks the exposed cooking tray . An in-oven broiler presents no additional challenges than you 'd have with regular oven use . Second : flexibility . Broiler drawers often seem to come equipped with an awkwardly-sized pan that 's smaller than the oven itself . Sometimes this has brackets or rails to hold it in place in the center of the drawer . This is a stupid design that 's difficult to clean , sometimes even difficult to remove , and limits your cooking space . The pan also rarely has any ability to move up or down , limiting your vertical space too . With an in-oven broiler , you can adjust the existing racks to get thick items underneath , and control how close your food gets to the heat source ( and therefore how quickly it browns ) . I frequently kick on the broiler at the end of cooking with things like au gratin potatoes , to get a nice brown crust on top at the very end . I could n't fit the pan I use into a broiler drawer , but with the in-oven version I do n't even have to open the door . An in-oven broiler will also accommodate any size pan that will fit in your oven . Remember those flank steaks ? Regarding design , most gas ranges that I 've seen with an in-oven broiler have two separate burners , a main version at the bottom that provides indirect heat to the oven box , and the broiler running along the top with a sort of heat shield to reflect its energy down into the oven . Drawers often seem designed to take advantage of only a single burner at the bottom of the oven , which provides both indirect heat to the oven box and direct heat to the drawer . This is mostly my assumption ; I 'm not an engineer . This design could make drawers marginally cheaper ( again , I have n't checked ) but I think the advantages outweigh any price premium for the extra burner . I 'll be so bold as to say that you will be very pleased with the difference if all you 've ever used is a drawer .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
In baking , doubling sometimes is accurate , sometimes not . Yeah , that is a non-answer , but is true . It is not unsafe to double , or halve , but sometimes results will vary . You hit a point which could cause a slight issue , even distribution . Changing volume of a recipe with an ingredient which is distributed over the surface might affect the distribution ratio , though in this case I think it would likely be minor . Other issues can arise in doubling would be if the dough needs to breath . Thermal reactions can often affect results when doubling or halving recipes as well . The cooking time adjustments are often obvious , but cooling can be less obvious but disastrous at times , and any resting times needed may be skewed . All of that said , with allowing for baking time , and a little experimentation , most recipes can be safely doubled or halved , but tend to start breaking down beyond that , going for tripled , 4 times , etc tends to get progressively poor results without a lot of trial and error . It is certainly worth a try though . And alternate or fallback if you do not like the results of doubling is to make two separate batches , which you know will be correct .
In my experience , they 're best at concentrating mold spores , and hiding away unsightly loaves . While chic , and quite popular in the days before plastic bags , they 're not much use now . Pretty much the same as the " <URL> "
The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels . I have used both methods and have n't noticed a difference in the bread produced . In very dry climates , when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience . Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover .
end question
start question
How do you remove the pit from a mango ?
I have n't tried this before but I found <URL> that shows you how . Cut into the mango , starting where the stem was and going around the long way , just in to the pit . Reach in with a spoon and scoop around the pit , separating one half of the mango from the pit . Then scoop the pit out of the other side .
Kosher salt and a small amount of vegetable oil . Scrub the pan with the salt on a rag or paper towel , if there are stubborn bits mix a couple drops of oil with the salt , wipe dry with clean towel . If you use a wet method to clean the pan re-heat it after cleaning to make sure it is completely dry before storing .
You can not find the correct final internal temperature for a whole duck , because it does n't exist . If you stop the cooking when the white meat is tender , you 'll have very tough red meat . If you cook until the collagen is melted , you 'll get very tough white meat . With whole birds , it is more popular to go the collagen route . Especially a duck , with its darker meat overall and sufficient fat in the breast area to insulate the breast meat during smoking and then lubricate it , is a very good candidate for it . To melt the collagen , wait until the duck thigh has gone up to 70 Celsius ( 160 Fahrenheit ) and from then on smoke for 2-4 hours . In this case , the lower part of the range ( 2 hours ) is probably better , to have a chance of a little bit of juiciness to remain in the breast .
The vitamin loss is due primarily to the puree'ing . The viramin A in mangoes comes from beta-carotene , and beta-carotene breaks down easily due to oxidation . On a similar note , I 've seen recommendations that carrots ( another good source of beta-carotene ) not be chopped into small pieces before canning to preserve their vitamin content . Lots of vitamins are also destroyed by the heat of canning , but beta-carotene is not as susceptible to this problem because it is fat soluble .
So ... I was always taught that you remove it because it 's bitter . I generally remove it if it 's big enough . However , there seems to be some contention as to whether this is true ( and to what degree it 's true ) . See : <URL> and <URL> In short , there are mixed teachings as to whether you should remove it . But essentially the germ DOES affect the taste of garlic . Some call it bitter , some call it " more garlicky " . Ruhlman suggests that if you 're hitting it with heat immediately , then there is n't a point in removing it . If he 's doing something that will have the garlic sitting around , then he does n't . From this what I 'd suggest ( and what I 'm going to try doing from now on ) is to ignore it and if you notice a difference in taste , or more importantly find the result objectionable . then take it out next time . Otherwise do n't bother as you wo n't know the difference .
The California Avocado Commission recommends this ( safe but wimpy - see below for a better way ) three-step process : Start with a ripe avocado and cut it lengthwise around the seed . Rotate the halves to separate . Remove the seed by sliding the tip of a spoon gently underneath and lifting out . The other common seed-extraction method - striking the seed with a knife and twisting - requires some skill and is not recommended . Peel the fruit by placing the cut side down and removing the skin with a knife or your fingers , starting at the small end . Or simply scoop out the avocado meat with a spoon . Be sure to sprinkle all cut surfaces with lemon or lime juice or white vinegar to prevent discoloration . <URL> Source : <URL> Notes : Another ( and my favorite ) way to remove the pit is by holding the half with the pit in one hand and striking the sharp edge of the knife used in step one into the pit , then twisting to remove . This is the " pro " way to do it , but takes a little practice . <URL> , it 's not that hard . If you 're going to be chopping the avocado up , you slice it up using the tip of the knife still in the shell , then scoop the sliced avocado meat out with a spoon .
Assuming the rind chunks are fairly large , you could use a colander with fairly large holes or a metal sieve .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
Standard prep for beef tongue seems to be : scrub it well and rinse , then soak it in cold water for 2-3 hours . Heat water to a low simmer ( about 200F ) and cook slowly for at least an hour per pound . Preferably cook as long as you can ( 5-6 hours ) to get a more tender result . When meat is tender and cooked , remove meat and save the broth . Cool the tongue and peel off the outer skin . The broth may be reduced and added to vegetables and meat to create a richer , meatier taco . I also found a tongue taco ( how is that NOT slang for some sexual act ? ) <URL> . Personally , I 'm also a big fan of cold boiled beef tongue with horseradish sauce . You can go from the cooked tongue straight to that just by slicing it up . Now I really want to make tongue tacos .
Fresh seafood should n't be overly " fishy " . It 's generally older seafood that will get a stronger " fishy " smell and flavour . That said , there are 3 approaches to a " less fishy " result : Absorb/reduce fishiness : you can always try something like soaking it in milk ( which you can then save to use for a fishy bechamel when your sister is n't dining with you ) . You could then rinse it off and cook it however you want . This should help " absorb " some of the fishiness and make it milder . Disguise fishiness : The other angle is to " cover up " the flavour with lots of spicy glaze or garlic/lemon flavours instead . Pick mild seafood : The other thing to try is to pick a more mildly flavoured fish ( e.g. a white fish instead of something like tuna or salmon ) . Avoid oily fish as they tend to have a stronger flavour . Choosing something really fresh also falls into this category .
Take a clean kitchen towel ( not a terry towel , a dish towel ) , place the peanuts on it , fold it up , then rub the peanuts vigorously through the towel . The friction should remove the skins . You can then pass the whole lot through a colander to winnow out the skins .
In the past when I 've cooked in the ground I put rocks into the fire . Do n't really know what sort of rocks , but I 've been involved in sessions that use bricks . Point is that you needs some way to " envelope " the heat around the thing you are cooking so what we did was put the rocks into the fire to heat them up . Carefully remove the rocks before putting the lamb in and then put the hot rocks on top of the hessian covered meat before putting the dirt back on top . Let it sit for a while and you should get a much more even result
Fill a basin or hotel pan with water . Place in your smoker . Ensure the smoker heat is set below 100C/212F ( adjust as necessary for distance above/below sea level ) . Um ... smoke . An hour should do fine . More if you want more . Optionally strain through a superbag or muslin to remove any deposited particulate matter .
If you want to be really lazy about it , just get yourself a <URL> . Pour in the soup , the fat will rise to the top , and you can do what you want with it ( i.e. dump it ) . If you 're reading this in an emergency , you can do this with just a strainer . You 'll get better results if you chill the strainer before each skim , i.e. by rinsing it with very cold water . The fat will tend to congeal on the cold strainer the same way it congeals when it 's actually chilled . I 've also heard that the fat will cling to certain leafy vegetables , like lettuce . If you have a lettuce head kicking around , try peeling off a leaf and dusting the top of the pan with it .
By hunting chicken in a game preserve ? ;-) <URL> The essence of poaching chicken is a gentle boil in water , stock or other flavorful liquid . I really like poaching chunks of chicken in a thin sweet-and-sour sauce , then thickening the sauce , adding pineapple chunks , and serving over rice .
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
Avery 's " fattest turkey " advice is solid . I try to find ground turkey breast as opposed to ground turkey , no matter what I plan to do with it , because it 's easier to keep it from drying out in various recipes . As he said , ground turkey is so easy to overcook . You could always add some moisture by throwing some bacon grease into the mix , which I have done in the past with regular ( ground beef ) meatloaf to help make it as unhealthy and delicious as possible . This should effectively counter the health benefits of using ground turkey over ground beef , but boy is it good ! When my mom makes turkey burgers for the grill , she adds some italian dressing into the mix and swears that it helps keep the burgers from drying out fast . Have n't tried it myself , but I can see how the oil ( and water and vinegar , but moreso the oil ) would help . It will likely affect the taste of the dish ... but that is n't always a bad thing , as I find ground turkey to be significantly more " boring " tasting by itself than ground beef is by itself , probably because of the lack of fat .
Most flavor molecules from marinades do n't penetrate much below the surface of the meat . ( Salt and to a lesser extent sugar are exceptions : they will gradually work their way in deeper in long marinades . ) Anyhow , if you actually want your marinade flavors to penetrate more than about 1/8 " into the meat , the only real option is injection . But if you do n't want to do that , poking holes or even gashing the surface with rough knife cuts will help a bit . You can see some photos at <URL> , showing how a colored dye ( whose molecule size is as big as typical flavor molecules ) does n't get below the surface , but gashes and holes can help carry it deeper . I do n't know that there are any real drawbacks to the method , other than having a craggy surface on the meat . As Jolenealaska pointed out in comments , the idea that significant moisture loss occurs from piercing is mostly a myth . ( For more detail on that , see <URL> . )
Texture is the main reason , but if you 're going to be blending the sauce , there can be off-flavors from cracking open the seeds . Even if you do n't blend it , they can be these slippery little things that I never much liked growing up . To reduce the amount of waste , you can : cook the sauce , then put it through a food mill to strip out the seeds and skins , thus keeping you from wasting the gel around the seeds . freeze the peeled skins , to save for when you 're next going to be making vegetable stock . collect the seeds and gel , then put it into a muslin bag and hang to let drip to extract ' tomato water ' . ( you typically use crushed tomatoes for this ... I do n't know for sure if the gel will go through the muslin ) . Tomato water is strange as it gives good tomato flavor , without the red color .
Because of the different shapes , different pastas will occupy different volumes of space both before and after cooking . There are two answers that readily occur to me , one simple one more complex . The simple solution , of course , is just to make too much . Cook your pasta , put in the casseroles with sauce or adding the sauce after , depending on your recipe , and if you have too much ( you should , you planned for it ) let it cool , add mayo , mustard , onion , some pickle relish and make pasta salad . Or throw in soup . Or ... Option two is to measure your pasta by volume when dry , assuming that it approximately doubles in size . So you 'll need to fill one of your casseroles with dry pasta , and that should give you enough to make two casseroles worth , once you have cooked the pasta .
end question
start question
Is frozen crabmeat OK to use for crab cakes ?
Most crabmeat is pasteurized , so the texture has already suffered a bit . Crab cakes are basically a binder , crab meat , and seasoning . The binder can add all sorts of interesting textures . There are recipes with Panko , bread flour , flour , eggs , ... If you are worried about it being dry , add mayo as @Darin suggested or increase the oil a bit . Look at the packaging , the crab meat may be already cooked , so you may get away with cooking it less .
I agree that you can get some good meat from the head and could use it to flavour Bouillabaisse , i would n't however use it for stock as oily fish can lead to a cloudy fatty stock rather than the clearer and more flavoursome fish stock that can be derived from the off cuts and bones from white fish .
Frozen spinach has been boiled/blanched . You can do this if you really want it to be as much like frozen spinach as possible , but really , you can just cook it with the water left on the leaves from washing - effectively a bit more like steaming . There 's no need to freeze it . This will result in something with fresher flavor and a bit more substantial texture than frozen spinach ( not as eager to disintegrate ) . And you do n't have to worry about moisture much - a lot of the water will cook off - but you can certainly drain it additionally if it 's too much for you . If you really want it exactly like frozen spinach , you could boil it , and maybe even freeze it to help mess up the texture , but I 'm guessing you 'd prefer cooked fresh spinach anyway . In this case , you 'd have to squeeze and drain it just like with frozen spinach to get the water out . ( If it 's unclear how to do this , see <URL> . ) Based on nutrition facts for <URL> and <URL> , one 10 ounce package is approximately the amount you 'll get from cooking a 340g ( 12 ounce ) bunch of spinach - that weight is probably after removing the stems you 're not actually going to cook , though . This fits with my experience cooking down spinach . Most things you 'll use it in are really forgiving , so probably best to err on the larger side with your bunch of spinach !
Vinegar would n't be harmful . The resulting reaction would create a ferrous salt which would be easily washed away . However , it was probably the vinegar and other acids in your food that cause the rust in the first place . Steel items stored in a acidic environment rust faster than those in plain water . Washing and storing dry is the best way to prevent rust .
I would say you could use it once , and probably just to make refrigerator-type , quick pickles . The problem is that you have no way to determine acidity or salt levels once you remove the previously pickled items . Of course it should look clean and clear . If you were previously doing a lactic acid fermented pickle , some of the liquid could be used to jump start your next ferment .
The texture of frozen herbs is going to be totally different after thawing . In my opinion frozen herbs are fine for using in cooking , but they do n't work well as a garnish or as an addition to a dish at the end of cooking . The taste is definitely better than dried , though .
I think a bread knife would shred the skin and flesh . I would place skin side down and , ideally , use a sharp slicing knife . Sharp is the key . I have also used a chef 's knife and a fillet knife for this task . The goal is to achieve a clean cut .
Per NC State 's Extension 's <URL> ( some emphasis added ) : Pickles or sauerkraut mold during fermentation . Answer : Unsafe -- microorganisms are growing improperly . Possible reasons Fermentation temperature was above 75 & deg ; F. Too much salt was used , not allowing adequate lactic acid production . The cloth on top of the kraut was not kept clean during fermentation ( may need to be replaced after skimming ) . Per Penn State Extension 's <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Do not taste it if you see mold on the surface , feel a slimy texture , or smell a bad odor . Their <URL> says : To avoid surface mold growth , keep the cabbage submerged at all times by covering it with a plate just small enough to ft inside the fermentation container or with two or three clean quart jars filled with water . An acceptable alternative is to fill a large , sealed , food-grade plastic bag containing 4 1/2 tablespoons of salt and 3 quarts of water . Again , no indication of acceptable types of mold . I can not endorse the existing answers which indicate that mold is an acceptable part of the saurkraut making process , unless credible science based evidence is presented , from reputable sources such as University Extension Centers or , better yet , peer reviewed journal sources .
According to KitchenAid 's food processor users ' manual : Never process any food that is so hard or firmly frozen that it can not be pierced with the tip of a sharp knife . Hard food can cause damage to the blade or motor . If a piece of hard food , such as carrot , becomes wedged or stuck on the blade , stop the processor and remove the blade . Carefully remove food from the blade . <URL> That being said , I 've also used my food processor for frozen fruit , hard nuts , etc. . My blades have never worn out in 18 years of use ( though the bowl has been replaced once due to cracking ) .
There is lots of use for high temperatures . Especially pizza is the first thing that comes to mind ; there is no home oven which can get to the proper temperatures for a Neapoletana ( which are above 500 Celsius ) , but more is always better . Of course , the salesman will tell you what you need to hear to buy his product , do n't listen to him . This still does n't mean that you should only buy the oven with the highest max temperature ; there are badly built ovens which claim to reach 300 Celsius but ca n't actually do it , in this case you are probably better off with a better quality oven with a lower nominal maximum temperature . It is probably best to compare reviews made by independent test organizations .
Yes , you can freeze buttermilk . When thawed , the emulsion will break into solids and whey . This makes no difference for baked goods ; you can also use a blender to restore it to a smooth , thicker liquid if needed for applications like salad dressing . See also : <URL> . <URL>
The real , original Wiener Schnitzel is veal . Definitely . I ca n't link to a web source now , but I have some German cook books at home , including one solely about different kinds of schnitzel . From the veal , you use parts 6 , 7 and 11 for any kind of schnitzel , 7 being the best and highest-prized choice . I do n't know the English names , maybe somebody can supply them . Also , try using leaner meat . I think that in the US , the fat marbled beef is considered higher quality . But in Europe , lean beef is preferred . A good beef schnitzel has maybe 3 % fat . This said , there are lots of places which cook pork schnitzels in the Wiener style and call them Wiener Schnitzel . It is n't traditional , but if you like the taste , there is nothing against doing it that way at home . They come from the same parts of the pig as the veal schnitzel : the ham and the lower back . Again , they should be very lean . And in both cases , unlike a steak , a schnitzel is always boneless .
It 's safe because freezing greatly slows ( if not completely arrests ) the growth of the bacteria that would otherwise make the meat spoil . It does n't kill them , it just puts them in ' stasis ' . The expiration date is given based on the meat only being refrigerated . If you intend to store the meat past its expiration date , best practice is to freeze the meat ASAP , and to use it within 24 hours of defrosting . The main hazard is in that defrosting . At no point should the chicken ( any part thereof ) be at room temperature for more than 2 hours . The safest method is to defrost the meat slowly in the fridge . You can also defrost it under cold running water , providing you keep it under the 2 hour mark . Of course , you can also cook the meat straight from frozen . There is absolutely nothing wrong with doing this for small cuts like chicken breasts . Slicing and cooking a partially defrosted chicken breast is perfectly safe , especially as it often easier to make really thin strips with semi-solid meat . You just have to be extra careful that the meat is at a safe temperature ( 170 ° F/75 ° C ) .
Coat the chocolate chips in flour ( whichever type of flour goes into your cake ) . Put a few ounces or two of flour and the chocolate chips into a zip-top bag , close tightly and shake . The coated chips will then adhere and tend to " float " in the batter . Subtract the amount flour used to coat the chips from the flour otherwise used in the recipe . You could do this with cocoa powder instead of flour .
Drinking chocolate is a bad way to flavor a cake . It consists of cocoa powder mixed with sugar , and has nowhere near enough chocolate taste . The correct way to flavor a cake is either baking chocolate ( the real thing , not " fat-containing cocoa glaze " ) , or cocoa powder . You should choose the one to use depending on the recipe ; do n't just add it to a normal sponge cake recipe , both change the texture . Cocoa powder is easier to use , as it will only add starch to the cake . Baking chocolate will give you a richer texture due to the cocoa butter it contains , but finding a good recipe for it is more complicated , as the classic proportions have to be adjusted not only for the starch , but also for the fat and sugar it adds . Also , the fat it adds ca n't be creamed , which interferes with leavening , and it has to be melted before adding it to the cake , which requires some skill ( mostly temperature control ) and is something I would recommend for an intermediate rather than a beginner baker . In short , find a good recipe which uses cocoa powder . Drinking chocolate is not only prohibitively expensive , it also gives an inferior result . After you feel more comfortable with cake baking , you can consider advancing to recipes which include baking chocolate . My personal favorite are Desaulniers ' recipes , but the Gourmet magazine recipes are probably more accessible , as many of them are freely available online ( try searching on Epicurious ) . You can also look around for other sources ; I would advise against trying out random recipes off the Internet before you have gathered enough experience to be able to judge the quality of the results by just reading the recipe .
Most crabmeat is pasteurized , so the texture has already suffered a bit . Crab cakes are basically a binder , crab meat , and seasoning . The binder can add all sorts of interesting textures . There are recipes with Panko , bread flour , flour , eggs , ... If you are worried about it being dry , add mayo as @Darin suggested or increase the oil a bit . Look at the packaging , the crab meat may be already cooked , so you may get away with cooking it less .
The toxin in kidney beans is destroyed by boiling for around ten minutes , which no doubt holds true for any toxin in the water as well . So there should be no problem with using the soaking water to cook the beans , provided you cook them properly .
If you use the buttercream option , let the icing dry a bit before putting the rice paper on , as too much moisture will cause it to collapse and the ink to run . Also , I would n't recommend pressing the rice paper down , but just patting it onto slightly tacky buttercream . White icing is best as the rice paper is quite translucent . The other alternative you suggest will work fine - place it on the cake and pipe around the edge to hold in place . I have seen this done many times . Best not to use a vivid colour for the piping as it could leech into the rice paper a bit .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
well veggie/cheese wise , i would recommend either of : Chickpeas drained in salt water and paprika and grilled in the oven for about 10 minutes Portobello mushrooms cut into large chunks fried halloumi large chunks of celery sauteed in salt pepper , and chili
end question
start question
How long will eggless pasta dough last in the fridge ?
Paul , I make my own pasta dough frequently . Since my standard recipe makes around 40oz ( 1 kg ) of dough , I always have leftover , so I 've had plenty of experience with saving it . Even with eggs , pasta dough will be fine in the fridge for a week ; the texture will be unaffected ( if anything , it will be better ) . If you want to keep it longer than a week , it can be frozen for several weeks wrapped tightly in plastic wrap , and more-or-less indefinitely if you vacuum-seal it . Glad to hear about your WWW recipe , I 'll have to try that .
<URL> is a complete flax seed pasta dough recipe for you ( on allergickid.blogspot.com ) . It uses the only egg substitute I 've used : ground flax seeds and water . I 've used it in several breads and cookies , but not pasta . I 've found <URL> , you so may need to play with them , depending on the flax you use , but basically : To replace one egg : In a blender , blend 1 Tbsp flax seeds with 3 Tbsp water until thick and creamy . You want the flax to be freshly ground , and it will add a nutty flavor .
The following is paraphrased from Andrew Whitley 's excellent book Bread Matters Wheat leaven If you intend to use within 2 days , store the it at ambient temperature For 2-14 days , store it in the fridge . Optionally refresh it before use . For longer , refresh then freeze . Refresh again after thawing . Rye sourdough 0-3 days -- ambient temperature 3-30 days -- fridge , no need to refresh Longer -- refresh then freeze . Refresh again after thawing . Whitley describes " constructive neglect " . He keeps a rye sourdough in his fridge that 's several months old , so that he can demonstrate to students how easily he can take 50g of it and produce a lovely sourdough from it within 16 hours . It 's a great book .
In general the FDA recommends that you consume leftovers within 3-5 days ( See their website for specific foods ) . In this case , I do n't think the garlic is what 's holding you back . While garlic and herb infused oils do present some botulism risk , I think what they are getting at is the can of preserved garlic you 've had in the fridge for 9 months .
If it 's raw , stick with the best-before date on the label . If cooked , you have at least <URL> , regardless of whether it 's pork , veal , or regular beef .
Egg yolks , optionally covered with water , and in a well sealed container should hold for about 2-3 days in refrigerator . You may also freeze them , but they require treatment with sugar or salt to prevent the proteins from turning them rubbery , at ratio of about ( per the <URL> ) : 1/8 teaspoon salt OR 1 1/2 teaspoons sugar or corn syrup per 1/4 cup of egg yolks ( about 4 yolks ) . Of course , you then have to adjust whatever recipe you use them upon thawing to account for the sugar or salt already mixed into the yolks . See also : <URL>
They should be fine until Monday . Do just as he said ... keep them in the fridge covered with damp newspaper . Cook them tomorrow or Monday . If you ca n't / do n't for some reason have time to cook them then just stick them in the freezer alive . They 'll freeze and you can then cook them another time in the future .
I have always made sure that I only defrost enough to meet the needs of the moment for sushi . If you cut the blocks into 4 to 8 rolls worth , they should defrost under running water in just fifteen to twenty minutes , just about the time it takes me to do a batch of sushi rice . That said , fish once defrosted will start to lose flavor immediately but will remain edible for 2 days . Once it starts to smell , get rid of it immediately , and I would play it very safe on that " starts to smell " the faintest whiff should be enough to send it to the bin .
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
Unless your fridge is above 40 F ( 4 C ) , it wo n't go bad . I 've had large frozen turkeys take 4 days to thaw before . Just use it once it is fully thawed , do n't let it sit around thawed for several more days . There 's no food that I 'm aware of that goes bad in the time it takes to thaw it . The stilltasty link below shows 3-5 days for refrigerated meat , and 4-6 months for frozen . Transitioning from frozen to thawed though , I generally count on defrost time + 2-3 days . If you want to thaw it faster you can always use the cold water method . Simply place it in a sink full of cold water ( submerged ) and change the water every 30 minutes . The rule of thumb for turkey is 30 minutes of thaw time per pound . I imagine pork shoulder would be similar , maybe a little longer ? Additional Info : <URL>
Bisquick-originated pancake and waffle batter lasts a day , two at the most . Data : in college , I made pancakes or waffles every day for a year and a half , making the batter on day 1 and then cooking it on days 1 , 2 , and 3 . Once in that time I got sick on Day 3 . Based on that experience , more than 24 hours is getting sketchy , though 48 seems to work most of the time .
Eggs will last two to four days in the refrigerator . Source : StillTasty ( <URL> &amp; <URL> )
I have " ice packs " which are encased in plastic ( some hard , some soft ) , that I keep frozen . It wo n't quite bring your soup down as far as you want , but dropping a few of these into your soup will help cool it off . Just remember to clean them before returning them to the freezer . The other thing I do it put the stopper in my sink and add cold water and ice . The whole pot goes in the sink -- surrounded by cold water and ice it will cool much faster than in the fridge ( or freezer ) . Add some salt to the ice-water and it will get even colder . Stir it up a bit every once in a while both inside and outside ( use separate spoons ! ) to keep the temperature distribution even . Alternatively , you could use one of <URL> :)
In <URL> , Lorenzo notes that steaks may end up raw in the center if you only leave 'em out for 10-15 minutes to come up to temperature . I recommend 30 mins , but it will probably vary on what room temperature actually is for you . From Weber 's Way To Grill , which recommends salting right when you take them out of the fridge , here 's Mr. Purviance 's take on why you should consider salting early : It 's true that salt draws moisture toward itself , but over the course of 20 to 30 minutes that 's a good thing , because the salt begins to dissolve into that little bit of moisture . When the steak hits the hot grate ... [ you ] create a delicious crust . Any moisture you might lose is well worth the flavor of that crust .
I regularly store chopped onion in my refrigerator ( or at least halves &amp; quarters ) . I either use tight-sealing plastic containers or zip-top bags . You may want to double-bag in zip-tops to be sure to avoid a smell . One problem you may be having is onion-ness getting on the outside of the container . Be sure the outside is all clean and dry - no point in having a nicely sealed packet of onion when the outside can get all stinky anyway .
... as long as it needs to , depending on a wide variety of factors . You can shape it for baking , put it in the fridge , let it rise , pull it out of the fridge and put it in the oven - no warming up time at all . If you are going to punch down/knead/form after it comes out of the fridge , you can do all that cold , and let it rise as long as it needs to before baking - which will depend on the dough and the room temperature . Or you can let the bulk dough warm a while .
I would store them outside , not inside the fridge . Fridge temperatures make anything containing flour go stale quickly . Of course , sometimes people have to live with it , such as when they have made a cake with perishable icing or filling . But cookies are not perishable , so they are better stored outside of the fridge . As to whether to put them in a sealed container or not , it depends on the cookie . The harder type does all right in the air , and can get flaccid in a sealed container . If they are soft , they are probably better off covered . It is still preferable to not isolate them completely , a canvas bag or a bread box with ventilation slits does better .
In theory the elements could last 10 's of years , there is nothing in typical electric element design that limits their life . I would expect modern oven elements to last at least ten years with daily use They may fail prematurely due to damage ( being knocked ) in the oven while hot , from surface oxidation due to improper cleaning , or because of slight manufacturing faults
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
Yes , with any kind of ' stewing ' sauce , the flavour improves the longer you cook it ( provided it 's a slow , gentle process ) . The longer you leave it , the more chance the flavours have to ' marry ' . I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering ! You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good , for the same reason as above . Any stew , in fact , like bolognese , casserole , chilli , bourgignon etc , is really delicious when left overnight and reheated .
end question
start question
How do you correctly use a meat thermometer ?
With thin cuts of meat ( like chicken breast or a steak ) , you want to make sure you put the thermometer in to the thin side of the meat so that the whole thermometer goes in to the meat , rather than putting it in through the " top " so that only a little of the thermometer is in the meat . If you 're putting it in the top , you can get wildly inaccurate temperatures . Also make sure that the thermometer is n't touching a pan , exposed to air , or touching a bone . Any of those can have a negative effect . Also , you only need to cook chicken to 74C / 165F . That may be part of the problem in your case . You may also want to check that your thermometer is accurate . You can stick it in boiling water to check that it reads 100C / 212F ( assuming of course it goes up that high ) .
I recommend ( and use ) a <URL> . Not only are they fairly tough and sharp , you can adjust the blade to the depth you need ( you do n't want to cut too deep ) . And the blades are cheap to replace ... As others have noted in the comments , be careful with this as you would with any knife : the blades may be small , but they 're quite sharp .
The purpose - as with any cooked meat - is to let the meat firm up so it does n't release juices when you cut into it . In the case of a turkey it also helps to let it cool enough to not burn you when you are carving and eating it . Both of these goals will be met in 30 minutes to an hour . I do n't know why that chef would recommend 3 hours . At that length of time the turkey would start to approach room temperature and would be less appealing to eat as well as start the clock on the danger zone .
For Easter , a friend and I cooked rabbits . We marinated for 72 hours in buttermilk , dijon , rosemary , and sage ( NO SALT ) . Then boned them out and spatchcocked them ( sort of a butterfly , with skewers to hold the flat spread out shape ) , seasoned , and roasted at 350 until done . Moist , flavourful . Served with parsnip puree , rosemary potatoes roasted in duck fat , and sorry but I forget the other veg we used .
Since my pizza dough recipe makes three 12 " pies and I usually make two at a time , I regularly freeze extras just as you did . To thaw , I have used both the countertop and refrigerator method . Thawing on the countertop produced the best results . The dough rolled as usual and the crust ( a thin one ) was crispy on the outside and chewy on the inside after baking .
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
I recommend a dedicated , rotary style coffee grinder for home spice grinding . Whole spices last longer , usually taste better , and are often less expensive than pre-ground . In many food cultures , whole spices are often toasted whole , then ground . It makes a big difference for not a lot of effort . I picked up a rotary style <URL> for $ 3 at a thrift store . I use it to grind all kinds of spices . It never needs to be washed . If it starts to taste like last weeks spices , I just grind up some rice and shake it out . It works great , I 've ground spices in the same grinder for 5 years .
I have n't tried this before but I found <URL> that shows you how . Cut into the mango , starting where the stem was and going around the long way , just in to the pit . Reach in with a spoon and scoop around the pit , separating one half of the mango from the pit . Then scoop the pit out of the other side .
Most flavor molecules from marinades do n't penetrate much below the surface of the meat . ( Salt and to a lesser extent sugar are exceptions : they will gradually work their way in deeper in long marinades . ) Anyhow , if you actually want your marinade flavors to penetrate more than about 1/8 " into the meat , the only real option is injection . But if you do n't want to do that , poking holes or even gashing the surface with rough knife cuts will help a bit . You can see some photos at <URL> , showing how a colored dye ( whose molecule size is as big as typical flavor molecules ) does n't get below the surface , but gashes and holes can help carry it deeper . I do n't know that there are any real drawbacks to the method , other than having a craggy surface on the meat . As Jolenealaska pointed out in comments , the idea that significant moisture loss occurs from piercing is mostly a myth . ( For more detail on that , see <URL> . )
Breathe through your mouth . The tear-causing chemicals in onions are absorbed through the nasal mucous membrane . By breathing through your mouth , they do n't get much contact with the fumes and wo n't absorb nearly as much .
Personally , I 've never made a dish that required greasing of the crockpot - even if it called for it , I 've ignored that step and had no problems . I can only imagine the step is added to ensure nothing sticks - but my crockpot ( and all others I 've seen ) are glazed porcelain or ceramic , and the recipes always include a liquid of some kind , so I do n't think that 's going to be a problem . If I were going to grease it , however , I 'd do it in the method you described , and use a very light touch .
No you do not need to remove them , unless you 're talking about very large squid . Good to eat ? I prefer the flesh and not the tentacles , but basically anything that is n't what you remove when cleaning ( the internal ' bone ' and assorted goop attached to it ) is fine . Best method for cooking is very , very fast -- squid needs fast nigh heat , usually no more than 40-60 seconds depending on size . Dust with cornstarch and deep fry very fast , or sautee in butter very fast . Too long and you will be chewing rubber .
There are two safe ways to defrost , one more rapid than the other . First method is to defrost in the refrigerator . This keeps temperature below 40 degrees F , in the safe zone . This will , also , take a while . Second method is to defrost in the sink under cold running water . The water does n't have to run rapidly , but it should change regularly . This will defrost the fish more rapidly than in the air ( water is a better conductor of heat than air ) and will keep the fish in the danger zone for the shortest period of time . If you are not going to cook it immediately , then return to the refrigerator . If you are deep frying , there are some techniques that will allow you to go direct from frozen to fried , but that is generally done in a professional kitchen where they have powerful fryers that can take the temperature hit and come back strong .
Most dishes require a chopped leek in any case , but for an uncut leek you will have to separate by hand and wash each leaf separately . If you want the leek in an untouched form I think you 're out of luck . You could try reassembling it after separating and washing :) Depending on the form you want your leaves in there are different ways . If you want them in strips you just cut lengthwise from above the root - keep the root on for now . Then you can rinse the leaves as they should be easy to separate . After rinsing remove the root . For ' chopped ' leaves cut the leek lengthwise and chop crosswise , removing the root in the process . The leaves will separate , and you can then wash the dirt from them in a colander . Skipping the lengthwise cut will usually make the leaves stay together , trapping the grit you want to get at . If you want to make doubly sure , you could first place the cut leeks in a bowl and swirl it around . The dirt will separate to the bottom . You can then take out the leeks and finish rinsing in the colander . Do n't pour the bowl into the colander as this just pours the grit over the leaves .
I would do it the other way round , I 'd fry the sausages first , then add the veg . This has a few benefits as I see it : - The sausages will brown more evenly , purely aesthetic but some people will think they are not cooked if they are not brown . You 'll get the oil out of the sausages so you 'll have a better idea of how much oil to add when you add the veg , if any . The veg will sweat down in the sausage oil which is likely to be much nicer than the other oil You can cook the sausages on a really low heat to start with so that they really get sticky and caramelised , then when you add the veg back in you can add a spoon of water/vinegar/stock to deglaze the pan an get that lovely sticky sausage goodness all over your veggies , which will be delicious . You could optionally take the cooked sausages out of the pan and do the veg separately , or keep 'em in there , I 'd probably take them out so I could turn the heat up a bit without having to worry about the sausages . I 'd say that when you do add the veg you want a thin ( 1mm ish ) layer of oil in the pan . Depending on the pan this is probably a tables spoon or 2 . You probably do n't need to scale up as if you are cooking a bigger batch you will probably use a bigger pan , and so a similar depth of oil should suffice . If you are using the same pan , but with a deeper amount of veg , then I would add a little more , but I would make the depth of oil in the pan proportional to the depth of veggies . Remember the golden rule . You can always add , you can never take away . And once the veg start to cook down and the volume decreases then the oil ratio will be higher , so start out with a little less than you think , just enough to coat the veg when tossed in it .
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
This is a recipe that we used for the concierge lounge when I was a chef in the main kitchen of the Disney 's Grand Floridian Resort &amp; Spa : Paneer 5 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons lemon juice Bring the milk to a boil , add the lemon juice so that the milk separates into the curds and whey . Add a bit more lemon juice if necessary . Let set for approx . 5 mins . Line a strainer with a cheesecloth and strain the milk . Reserve the whey to use in curries instead of water . Squeeze the excess whey out of the curd and fold the cloth around the paneer to form a 4-inch square . Place the paneer on a plate and place a heavy weight on top to squeeze out excess whey . Leave for about 4 hours to set .
If the banana flower was astringent it is because of the flower , not the cooking method . When the flowers are large and young they taste a lot better . If you wait until the bananas are formed and the stem to the flower is long then it will be astringent . The best time to pick the flower is when the stem is 10cm or less from the banana bunch . If the flower is old it will not be as good . The variety of banana will also influence the taste of the flower . Sugar bananas often have the best flowers . You can eat the pink section but it is not as pleasant as the white section . If you eat the small individual flowers you need to take out the stepal in the centre which is incredibly time consuming . Putting the banana flower in lime water is simply to stop it going brown before you cook it . It does not significantly change the flavour . There are many ways to cook banana flower . Here is my preferred method . Peel the flower until you come to the white centre . Discard the red outer section and the individual flowers hidden within this . I like to quarter the centre and then I place in boiling water and simmer for 15 minutes with some salt . For me it is delicious just like this with some lime , but from here you can put it in a cooked curry , salad etc
In <URL> , Lorenzo notes that steaks may end up raw in the center if you only leave 'em out for 10-15 minutes to come up to temperature . I recommend 30 mins , but it will probably vary on what room temperature actually is for you . From Weber 's Way To Grill , which recommends salting right when you take them out of the fridge , here 's Mr. Purviance 's take on why you should consider salting early : It 's true that salt draws moisture toward itself , but over the course of 20 to 30 minutes that 's a good thing , because the salt begins to dissolve into that little bit of moisture . When the steak hits the hot grate ... [ you ] create a delicious crust . Any moisture you might lose is well worth the flavor of that crust .
The problem that most people make when doing a breading is that they try to put on too thick of a coating of any given layer . Breading sticks because wet sticks to dry , and visa-versa . As such , you need to give the item a good shake after it leaves each dry station , and a moment or so to drip ( and a little bit of shaking here helps , too ) after it leaves a wet station . I 've also seen recommendations to let the breaded item sit for a while before cooking -- I can only assume that this is to allow moisture to migrate into the dry breading , or for the egg to set up some before it turns to steam ( which could result in that layer separating ) . So , some suggestions to fix your recipe : Do n't use the milk , but also do n't dry your meat . Use whole eggs , but make sure they 're well beaten ( the color will go to a pale yellow ) . The whites act as more of a ' glue ' while the yolks only serve to wet things down . Make sure to shake the item after it 's gone in the flour . If the eggs layer is going on too thickly , thin it with a bit of water before you do the next item . Really press the crumbs in on the final station . Shake the container to get a good distribution , then set the item in there . Spoon the crumbs from the side on top of the item 'til you ca n't see it , then press the crumbs into the item . Shake the item as it comes out of the breadcrumb station , or leave it to set for a few minutes on a sheet tray or wire rack , or both .
end question
start question
What makes for good olive oil ?
The problem is that there are different types of olive oil that are used for dramatically different purposes . A high quality ' cold pressed extra virgin ' oil often has fruity notes that are destroyed when you heat it , but is great for drizzling over things at the last minute , or cold applications such as salad dressings ... but note that the US labeling laws are lax , so something labeled as ' extra virgin ' in the US may not qualify as such in Europe . For most cooking , I use a good grade olive oil ( ' virgin ' , but not ' extra virgin ' ) for cooking with , not the extremely expensive stuff . For frying , there 's ' extra light ' olive oil which has a higher smoke point but little to no flavor on its own . It 's refined to such a point that you might be better off just going with any neutral flavored oil ( canola/rape , soy , corn , etc. ) Price depends on a lot of things , and a lot of it 's marketing and worthless -- if you can , I 'd look for other signs of quality ... like if there 's a packing date . Older oil is more likely to have deteriorated , and in a worst case , have gone rancid . ( more likely if it 's in a clear glass bottle ... if you 're buying large amounts of oil , keep it out of sunlight , or even better , buy it in a can ) Note that packing dates can also be cheated -- they might press the oil , then hold it for months before it 's actually bottled for sale . Also beware of ' blended oils ' . This is when they cut olive oil with something less expensive , but still try to pass it off as ' olive oil ' . ' Imported from Italy ' is another suspect label , as it might be foreign olives that were sent to Italy before being imported . ( but there 's nothing wrong with non-Italian olives ... the Greeks and Spanish make some great olive oils , and we 're starting to see more <URL> ) . ... Also note that olive oil can be classified like wines -- some companies might press a single variety of olive ( eg , Kalamata , Castelvetrano ) , which can have dramatically different flavors . They might be fruity , grassy , buttery , or even peppery . Regions can also have an impact , as some areas press olives while green , and others wait until they 're black . I wo n't get into these , as that 's more a matter of personal taste .
Half and half or heavy cream is a pretty good substitute . It has similar fat/water suspension , reduces and thickens similarly , and emulsifies similarly . You lose the coconut flavor , but it cooks similarly and you keep the texture . You can not substitute coconut cream , because it is too rich , which changes the texture of the sauce greatly , and does n't do as good a job of getting flavors out of spices . Incidentally , I highly suggest you pick up a box of instant coconut milk powder . It 's not as good as the canned stuff ( needs whisking ) , but because it 's nonperishable you do n't have to use the whole container at a time . This helps avoid the " oh crap , used the last can ! " moments you get with canned coconut milk .
The big missing thing in your description ( fat , salt , smoke ) is umami . You can see this in bacon-flavored products . For example , <URL> ( click on a " nutritional info " link ) contains monosodium glutamate . So if you want to make something bacon-flavored , short of using bacon ( and possibly draining away a lot of fat ) , you 're generally going to be looking for source of umami ; see <URL> or <URL> . Also , bacon is definitely not acidic , and perhaps slightly sweet . This means , for example , tomatoes are probably not a good way to get the umami , and that whatever you do , you might try adding a tiny touch of sugar to bring out the flavor a little more . Things like shitake mushrooms and nori seem like better flavor matches . ( If you 've had <URL> this should n't be too surprising . )
Flavor-wise Nicoise and Kalamatas are somewhat close , probably the closest most readily accesible substitute for most people .
According to this <URL> , you can get plump crisp and tender bacon by barely covering your bacon with water in a skillet over high heat , turning the heat down to medium when the water starts boiling and down again to medium-low once it has all evaporated and cook until ready . Having water in your skillet will keep the cooking temperature low while preserving the bacon 's moisture . As in explained in the video , once the water reaches its boiling point , the fat will be pretty much all rendered , so you 'll be less likely to burn the meat while waiting for the fat to cook off . It would seem the secret , whatever the method , is to preserve the moisture in the bacon to prevent it from going dry , while of course thoroughly cooking it . Perhaps cooking it covered with a lid would achieve something similar .
Bourbon , <URL> is aged in a fresh oak barrel . The oak heartwood naturally contains aromatic compounds including ( you guessed it ) vanillin -- the primary flavor component of vanilla itself . But beyond the already-present aromatics , the wood is further treated to produce even more flavor . About 20 % of the oak 's mass is made of lignins . When exposed to temperatures of 750 ° F the lignin breaks down to more aromatics including , once again , vanillin . Your bourbon barrel is charred in an open gas burner for 15 -- 45 seconds , making these flavors ready for extraction into your bourbon . The alcohol will then be able to further break down some of the solid mass and dissolve the aromatics . So bourbon is a good vanilla substitute because of the relatively high portion of vanillin that it contains
It is not a good idea to combine ANY teflon pan with an automatic dishwasher , regardless of what the manufacturer says . But fortunately for you , I have handy the Cook 's Illustrated from October 2010 , which did a nonstick skillet ( aka frying pan aka saute pan ) review . According to them , even the best nonstick coatings wo n't survive more than a year or two of heavy use . This makes proper care all the more important . Brand also is n't a good indicator of coating quality , because many pan manufacturers buy coatings from the same suppliers . To quote the article : Most cookware manufacturers do n't make their own nonstick coating ; they buy it from suppliers offering a menu of options , from basic to premium , and spray it on their pans . It 's similar to painting a room ; the quality of nonstick coating is determined not only by what 's in it but also by how carefully it 's applied and cured , and how many coats the manufacturer decides to put on . They found the Tefal ( T-Fal in the States ) Professional Total Nonstick Fry Pan ( $ 35 ) had a nonstick coating that outperformed the other pans by a significant margin , probably due to its 5-layer nonstick coating ( most pans use 2-3 layers ) . The only fly in the ointment was its handle , which had rivets that loosened after abuse . But , for $ 35 that is n't bad , doubly because it outperformed the $ 150 + All-Clad nonstick pans they used normally . If you 're looking for something cheaper than that , I 'd suggest you look at construction and not brand . Pick a heavy pan ( for its size ) , with either solid , thick-gauge aluminum OR a multi-ply construction . This combination ensures the pan will heat evenly and rapidly ( crucial for eggs ) , and is resistant to warping ( important if you use an electric range ) . If you 're cooking eggs , avoid hard-anodized aluminum interiors , as they do n't help prevent adhesion of eggs , and just cost more . The nonstick layer should look thick and smooth , not slightly textured . My most-used frying pan ( the default egg pan ) is a small T-Fal that cost all of $ 7 . The important thing is that it has the right construction and I treat it correctly ; I 'm careful not to scratch the surface with utensils , I never use a scouring pad on it , and it ca n't go near the dishwasher . This makes more of a difference than picking a fancy brand .
Olive oil degrades over time so freshness is important . Some of the higher priced olive oils sit on shelves for a very long time and by time they are sold they can be of lower quality than some mass produced olive oils . I 'd say you 're in the right frame of mind and would recommend finding a brand with a local representative who can trust and know the source and timing of the oil . Many smaller olive oil producers do n't bother with organic certification because of cost , but they have same or better standards . Therefore there is a sweet-spot where you can get quality olive oil similar to organics at decent prices . Keep in mind good olive oil is produced in many places , including Greece , Spain , and Lebanon . Not just Italy .
Tamarind gives a sour and slightly molasses note to food , including rendang . To replicate it , you thus need something sour , like lemon juice , and a dark sugar flavour , like black treacle , molasses , or dark brown sugar . For your recipe I would add 2 tablespoons of lemon juice and 1 tablespoon of dark brown sugar .
I found the following information in <URL> : Because it is EU-designated external use only , [ mustard oil ] is therefore exempt from shipping regulations that would apply to foods . Thus , it can be shipped in a container truck that had previously contained , say , motor oil , or even something worse . This probably was the cause of the poisonings , because people have been consuming mustard oil for millennia without ill effect despite the current EU designation -- which seems to be causing greater problems than it is trying to save us from . I have n't personally verified this statement , but if true , it 's best to avoid the " for external use " oil .
You 're heating the oil past its <URL> . There is no trick or technique that will prevent oil from smoking and oxidizing ( " burning " ) at temperatures above the smoke point . It is literally being slowly destroyed at that temperature . I honestly do n't know why TV chefs are so attached to the idea of cooking with olive oil when most <URL> to compare it to other oils ( for frying purposes ) strongly indicate that it loses all or almost all of its unique taste by the end . Some cite dubious health benefits , but the low smoke point of virgin/extra virgin olive oil may also make it worse for you health-wise due to exactly what you 've witnessed - smoke and oxidation . EVOO is great as a dressing but it 's a terrible choice as a cooking oil . If you absolutely must imitate these confused TV chefs , you can either fry at very low temperatures ( as in , just barely a sizzle ) , which will take considerably more time , or used a refined ( not virgin ) olive oil which has a much higher smoke point . These would typically be the " cheap " olive oils you find in large plastic or metal containers .
I like chef Ramsay , he can be snobbish and course at times but he knows food and he 's a straight shooter and tells it like it is . Sometimes he 's just saying the food is n't hot or even warm in the middle , but some times he is referring to frozen vs fresh ingredients . Most food is better when it 's fresh , because freezing destroys cell walls and breaks down some materials . For everyday cooking that may be just fine , but when you are charging a premium for your meal , he expects top notch and I agree with him . Just to put a foot note on it , try this at home . Steam some broccoli , side by side , use fresh broccoli and frozen and see what the difference is . It 's quite a huge gap .
Admittedly I have only stored my starter in a glass jar , but I would n't want anything else . You should look for a size that is neither too large , nor too small . It should comfortably hold your sourdough starter when you are simply feeding it - I usually store 200g of starter , at 100 % hydration ( 100g flour , 100g water ) or thereabouts . However , when actually making sourdough starter you make more - perhaps 400g or so , depending on how much bread you are making , plus you want to have something left to restart your bread . A typical recipe might call for 20 % starter , so 200g for a kilo loaf . The other solution is to of course have two separate jars , and only use both when doubling for bread . When I say it must be able to hold that much , I mean that it will have to hold it fully risen , which means around 2x to 2.5 x of the original size . In addition , narrow and high is better than low and wide , since it makes it easier to tell how much it rises . Also , you will want a wide opening , so that you can easily clean it . As for covering it , I just use a sheet of plastic . Just take care not to get it gooey . It will hold in the moisture so the sourdough does n't dry out , but wo n't trap the carbon dioxide . Good luck
Crouque-Monsier or the similar " Hot Brown " sandwich is perfect for my needs . That will use up the sauce in a completely different way . It will also make a great lunch . Thanks SAJ14SAJ for the tip .
Pros Any colour you like ( even black ) . With some machines you can make rainbow stripes just like toothpaste tubes do Any consistency you like , and more or less eggs , or just egg yolks . Add baking soda or Kansui to make stronger , more shape-able pasta ( not more than 0.5 % or it tastes soapy in a sauce ) Any flavour you like ( herbs , spices , extracts , extra egg ' y ... ) Any flour you like ( wholemeal and buckwheat is my favourite ) Any shape you like , make lasagne sheets to fit your favourite lasagne pan , or make your own extruder dies ( not trivial , but possible ) Easier and quicker to cook Extruder machines give your arms a great work out Fun to do with children , and educational You control what ingredients go into it ( more and more commercial pasta are including ' weird ' ingredients for no reason I know of ? ) The extruder you want :-) Cons Expensive to make if you account for your time ( you should ) Flour is flour . The base tastes more or less the same Large amount of time to make decent pasta , especially in tricky shapes Pasta machines can be hard to clean Special hardware ( roller , drying racks , extruder etc. ) required for anything but the basic flat noodles
Mold grows best in warm , moist conditions . It 's a fungus , not a plant ; light has nothing to do with it . Fresh air does n't really make it grow either , but circulating air does help reduce condensation , depriving mold of moisture . So you really do n't want to seal a breadbox - that 'll just help create a nice moist environment for the mold to grow in . Breadboxes are really just about keeping other pests away from your bread , while still being able to keep it at room temperature . ( It goes stale faster in the fridge . ) If you 're worried about mold growth , you probably just want to freeze some of the bread .
What is food grade lye Pure lye is by itself always food grade . There is nothing toxic about lye ( although it 's corrosive even at low-ish concentrations ) . When a manufacturer sells you food grade lye , they are guaranteeing you that it is not contaminated with anything unpleasant . After all , a chemistry plant will make a lot of different chemicals using the same equipment , and you do n't want to use lye which was mixed in the same erlenmeyer flask as a batch of pesticides . Also , the equipment used in an industry processes can leave unpleasant traces too , some search shows that one of the more common setups in the 20th century used an asbestos barrier for the electrolysis process of lye creation . The problems of making lye from sodium and water at home If you make your lye at home , you 'll only have to ensure that your ingredients are food grade . There is nothing in the process which can make the lye accidentally toxic . Even if you use wrong ratios : if you add more water than intended , your lye will be diluted , which does nothing bad , and even makes it less corrosive . If you add more sodium , you get more concentrated lye , which you can dilute . You do n't need any catalysts , solvents , or other intermediate reagents about whose possible residues you should worry . All you need is food grade sodium . But here we come to the first problem with your plan . It is much easier to find food grade lye than to find food grade sodium . Retail lye is used for household purposes , including baking pretzels and cleaning cooking utensils . I do n't know of any use for retail sodium beyond seventh grade chemistry class demonstrations . The second problem is that storing pure sodium at home is a PITA . First , you 'll need to find some food grade liquid for the airtight seal , and it will react with cooking oils . You obviously do n't want to use kerosene , so you 'll probably need to get medicine grade liquid paraffin . Should you ever have a fire in your kitchen , the sodium will also burn with a much hotter flame than anything else around , and you probably wo n't get it extinguished until it has burned itself out - non-watery fire extinguishers are not very effective on it , and water-based ones will actually accelerate the fire . The third problem is that you should pay lots of attention during the reaction . Sodium powder is prone to spontaneous explosions . Luckily , there is n't that much chance that you 'll produce powder from it unwittingly . But the byproduct of the reaction , pure hydrogen , is also explosive when mixed with air at certain ratios , and you can not control the ratio you produce . The fourth problem is that the reaction is quite exothermic . You can mitigate it somewhat by adding very small amounts of the metal to the water ( but not small enough to make a powder ) , but you 'll still get some heat development . And it is happening right under a possibly explosive hydrogen-air mixture - not a good idea . So my recommendation is to just buy food grade lye and use that . It will save you from lots of headaches . The problems of making lye by brine electrolysis at home You clarified that you had planned to use electrolysis . This is possible , and sodium chloride is certainly a more benign ingredient than pure sodium . The resulting sodium hydroxide should be safe for consumption . Still , I think it 's more trouble than it 's worth , and purchasing commercial lye is the better option . First , you still have to manage your byproducts . You 'll get elemental hydrogen and elemental chlorine bubbling up . You do n't want either of these gases floating in your living space , hydrogen being explosive and chlorine plain poisonous . Also , if you want a decent lye concentration , you usually do the reaction in a container where the electrodes are separated by a semipermeable barrier , else it reacts right back to salt . The problem is that your product will corrode most barriers quickly . I have done it as a kid in a u-shaped part of a drinking straw , with a piece of sponge in the middle . The lye ate the sponge away , and before that the chlorine turned the water in its part sickly green ( yes , you have to dispose of that byproduct too somehow , it does n't get out so quickly ) . If you use this method , it will be very hard to either find a barrier which is not corroded by the lye , or accept some corrosion but make sure that the product ( which will contaminate your lye ) is not harmful when eaten . Then there is the part about electrodes Wayfaring Stranger mentions in a comment : you want to choose a cathode material which is not dangerous when ingested , especially no heavy metals . To complete the equipment safety part , use a glass container for the whole bath , not a plastic or metal one . And of course , do n't use phenolphtalein drops to check for the proper concentration , get dry strips for dipping .
I think you will have much better luck if you just wait to get an appropriate almond extract . Aside from the difficulty of mixing an oil based flavoring , you 'll run into texture issues if you do get it mixed . Generally an emulsion will be thicker than the component liquids . Further , the flavor probably wo n't be what you want . If you 're creating a water or alcohol based solution , an alcohol based extract will flavor it better . Oil based extracts are generally better for things with a higher fat content for the flavor to disperse into , ie : even if you get the oil emulsified , you wo n't have an almond flavored liquid , you 'll basically have almond flavored droplets suspended in another liquid . If you really want to go ahead , I 'd recommend lecithin and/or a hydrocolloid like guar gum . Both will result in the end product being more viscous though .
There is no substitute for salt . Sorry . It has effects on the tastebuds and the body that can not be replicated . However ! They can be approached to a degree that most people will find interchangeable . Acids can mimic the flavour-enhancing qualities of salt in a big way . The more acid you have in a dish , the less salt you will need . Beware of going too far , of course , as too much acid is just unpleasant and will need salt to counterbalance . Heat -- as in capsaicin , chili peppers -- can produce much the same effect . Echoing papin 's information above ; NA and K ( sodium and potassium ) exist in balance in the body . Too far in one direction and you have a heart attack ( too much K ) , too much in the other and ( if memory serves ; I could be wrong ) you essentially drown ( or is it edema ? I ca n't remember ) . If avoiding sodium is related to a health concern , please speak to your primary healthcare provider before adjusting your diet in this way .
There are <URL> ( usually of Italian origin ) specifically made with olive oil . In breads , you can certainly use it , although there often is not enough olive oil for its flavor to truly be appreciated . New York style pizza dough , for example , is traditionally made with some olive oil .
end question
start question
What do I do with mildly fermented maple syrup ?
Yeah , syrup can ferment + convert sugar to alcohol . It has more of a tendency to do so if the sugar content is lower -- I tend to err on the side of overconcentrating my syrup . You can try boiling it for a while to see if the alcohol boils off + if the flavor is OK then use it ... but I 'd boil down a bit more first , to make sure the sugar content is back up to standards . Either boil until the boiling point is 7 degrees F higher than the boiling point of water at your altitude , or boil until the syrup " aprons " ( e.g. starts to drip in a sheet rather than discrete drops ; a flat edge of a metal spatula works well ) , with the former being more accurate if you have a good thermometer . If the flavor remains after boiling , then try using in recipes -- perhaps in brownies/blondies or with ice cream .
I trim the stem and remove the outer leaves till they snap to get to the fresh inner core and steam them the night or morning before grilling so they are cold and moist . I prefer steaming because I want all of the nutrients to remain in the artichoke . I cut them in half for the grill , remove the choke and brush them with grapeseed oil where they come into contact with the grill . First , facing down grill them till they feel hot on top then ; flip them over to keep the yummy inner side tender . fill the cavity with garlic butter and ... lemon if you wish . I prefer the brown color to the lemon flavor . I cook them till the butter melts . I like mine barely smokey because artichokes take on the smoke too easily and will taste burned . You ca n't taste the flavor of the artichoke if it gets too smokey .
Try freezing the oreos first and then cut with a sharp knife . Let the oreos warm to room temperature again . They will not lose any texture or crispiness . Update : In the name of science , I froze some oreos and tested the outcome . Freezing the oreos made the cutting much more ... achievable . A room temperature oreo just wants to crumble in too many places , but a frozen one holds together better .
1 . Chemical leaveners There are two " oldfashioned " chemical leaveners , both still used today in traditional German and Scandinavian gingerbread recipes : Potassium carbonate ( potash or pearl ash ) and Ammonium bicarbonate ( salt of heartshorn ) They do have their own quirks and pitfalls , but if nothing else is available ... If you can get baking soda , mix with cream of tartar to make baking powder . If your store does not stock it , you pharmacy most likely will carry " sodium hydrogen carbonate " ( which is another name for baking soda ) either as treatment for heartburn , it 's an antacid ( because it reacts with acid , neutralzing it and making these nice bubbles , as we know from baking ... ) or as topical treatment for allergic reactions of the skin ( poison ivy and others ) . 2 . Biological leaveners This boils down to Saccharomyces cerevisiae , aka . baker 's yeast or brewer 's yeast . Of course you get very different results and have to follow a different procedure . But here are some recipes where they are used somewhat interchangeably , e.g. some types of pancakes or waffles and , obviously , bread ( vs. sodabread ) . The charming thing about yeast is , that if your are really , really far from a store , you can still get your hands on yeast : Start a sourdough using the yeasts naturally occuring on fruits or the air around you . Probably not the kind of substitution you had in mind , though . 3 . No leaveners With good technique , you can incorporate a lot of air ( because that 's what all leaveners are supposed to do ) in your baking goods by whipping your eggs well . There are various approaches : You can whip the whole eggs . Whip the yolks ( with hot water or over a water bath to stabilize them ) to Zabaione-like consistency . Whip the whites and fold into your batter . You will want to bake these batters right away before the bubbles get a chance to burst . The air will expand during baking and the hardening egg/flour-mixture will trap them in the baked goods . Contrary to many recipes out there there is no real need to bake a pound cake or even sponge cake with baking powder if it 's done right . Other recipes without leavener ( or rather with the egg trapping steam generated by a rather high water content ) are the members of the popover family ( Yorkshire pudding in the UK , Pfitzauf in Swabia , some dutch pancakes ) and pâté a choux . Puff pastry relies on thin layers of butter separating the layers of floury dough and trapping steam between them .
Yeah , syrup can ferment + convert sugar to alcohol . It has more of a tendency to do so if the sugar content is lower -- I tend to err on the side of overconcentrating my syrup . You can try boiling it for a while to see if the alcohol boils off + if the flavor is OK then use it ... but I 'd boil down a bit more first , to make sure the sugar content is back up to standards . Either boil until the boiling point is 7 degrees F higher than the boiling point of water at your altitude , or boil until the syrup " aprons " ( e.g. starts to drip in a sheet rather than discrete drops ; a flat edge of a metal spatula works well ) , with the former being more accurate if you have a good thermometer . If the flavor remains after boiling , then try using in recipes -- perhaps in brownies/blondies or with ice cream .
The machine should not be accumulating bits of dough ... it should be designed so that any stray crumbs of dough naturally fall out of it . This is true of mine ( Kitchen Aid Pasta Roller attachement ) an I merely use a stiff dry brush to clean off the bits of dough which stick to the outside . If the pasta maker is metal , you definitely do not want to use water , as the instructions say . You will never be able to dry it properly and it will rust . If it 's an inexpensive pasta maker , I would suggest trying a different brand . If it 's an expensive one , I would contact the manufacturer . Otherwise , canned compressed air as the two commentors above suggest is worth a try . FWIW , I would n't worry about the egg in the pasta dough becoming toxic . However , I would worry about the dirty pasta maker attracting bugs .
I can get soy beans in two varieties here : As dried beans and as edamame . Edamame is a particular type of soybean that is harvested when it is still young . The pods are cooked ( usually boiled or steamed ) and then served with salt . The beans are popped from the pod and eaten . The pod is discarded . Edamame is sweet and a little grassy because it is young . Dried soy beans can be cooked like any other bean . Their hulls tend to come free and have an unpleasant texture so it is nice to skim most of them off . The flavor is good but not unique . It tastes like a normal white bean . The raw beans have a very strong " beany " flavor but cooked beans should not . Soymilk is made from dried soybeans . The beans or the milk are cooked to remove the very strong beany flavor . The finished milk does have a hint of sweetness and bean but not strong at all . Tofu , made from soymilk , tastes the same as the milk . Besides being sweet and a little beany , it can be a little nutty tasting . It can get chalky if it is n't fresh . All of these soybean preparations are very bland . They tastes fresh and clean but there should n't be any overly strong flavors . Strong flavors in these products are often a sign that the product is past its prime . Some soybean preparations ferment the beans . These have a wide range of flavors and textures .
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
The absolute time a stock will take depends on the quantity of stock you are making and also on the ratio of solids to liquid with which you started ( along with the strength of your burner , the starting temperature of the water , the geometry of your pot , ... ) . Intentional variation is also possible depending on your intended use . The best advice I 've heard comes from Judy Rodgers in the Zuni Cafe Cookbook : taste the stock often as it cooks , more and more freqently as it starts to taste good . When it does n't taste better than the last time you checked , it 's done .
You can let it ripe at room temperature . If you want to slow down the ripening process , put it in the fridge , although this will affect the mango negatively . If you want to speed up the process , put it in a bag with a banana . When the mango is ready to eat , it will be slightly soft if you press it and you can smell the mango flesh through the peel . The green colour will not totally disappear .
Throw them away . I would not expect potatoes to go black in the dehydration process , and although they may be safe to eat I would not expect them to be palatable , or inviting in any way . You can not be sure they are n't toxic , and you would n't put them on a guest 's plate , so chuck them .
I suspect it means " ditto ( the above line ) " : <URL> seems to indicate that " do . " was an old way of abbreviating before the ditto mark ( " ) became widespread .
Generally speaking , maple syrup will work fine in any recipe that calls for honey . They may have slightly different viscosities and water content , but that could be true between two honeys as well , so I would n't worry about it a lot . The only thing I think you really have to consider is whether the flavor of maple syrup is appealing in the dish you would substitute it in . In most cases , I think it will be fine , especially if the dish would have worked well with a dark , fully flavored honey . You might also like to try sorghum syrup , molasses , or agave nectar as other possible replacements .
If you 're worried about the sugar not dissolving , you can add golden syrup to the thawed sorbet . It will also make your sorbet softer . I 've only tried making sorbet a couple of times but when I used golden syrup , its consistency was softer than when I used sugar .
Soda-like drinks have traditionally been made in the same way as beer , but with less fermentation to keep the alcohol content low . Without alcohol , ( and with a bunch of protein and fat around from the yogurt ) you run the risk of growing some <URL> in your soda . Some traditional fermentation techniques carry risk of botulism , and any ' new ' technique should undertaken very carefully . That being said , your soda should be quite acidic and probably safe . Get some pH paper and use it ! There are a few things I would change in this plan : Yogurt is made at fairly high temperatures to encourage lactobacillus growth while inhibiting others . Find out the best temperature for your culture , and make sure you can maintain it during fermentation . Try get the culture growing independent of any yogurt : grow it in your sugar/lemon solution for a few generations without pressure and with a bit of oxygen . If it 's still alive and still tastes good , you 're probably OK . Otherwise , if the culture dies halfway through fermentation , something else is likely to grow in its place :-( Lemon juice is quite acidic , and will clean metals quite nicely . So do n't put your soda in any metal container unless your really like the taste of iron . ( Even beer is acidic enough to cause this problem , fermentation is always in glass , plastic or stainless steel ) . Used plastic soda bottles work well when clean . The other major problem with a pressure cooker is getting the soda out : if the cooker did hold pressure from a fermentation ( actually it will probably leak CO2 faster than it is made ) you should n't be able to open it until the pressure is removed . Again , soda bottles are a good choice here . Last - your water should not be chlorinated , the flavor of your soda could be ruined by chlorine .
When cooking Chinese ribs , they are usually boiled down ... ( I am a cook from Hong Kong ) We usually cut the ribs bone-attached into small cubes before cooking , quite unlike the western cooking style . stir-frying : Usually we stir-fry the rib with a sauce of choice ; black bean and chili is my favourite . One can also use the sweet-sour ( sometimes with the ribs sort of diced with bone attached , fried with a flour dip ) , and chinese preserved vinegar ( This is often an unpleasent flavour for most foreigners who are n't familiar with it IMHO ) steaming : You can marinade the rib , either with black bean and chili or sometimes plum-sauce and a little bit of salt to taste . Then just throw it in there and steam it done . The resultant meat is nicely done and we mix the sauce with the rice to make it great tasting ( sort of a good idea when i 'm out of money and need to eat more rice , and less meat ... The sauce is then quite rich in pork fat though , unhealthy , pardon me ... ) braising : this one is often done with five spice , sometimes red preserved-tofu ( nam-yu , as we call it in cantonese ) . or you can make your own homemade marinade by using different amount of ( 1 ) soy-sauce , ( 2 ) salt , ( 3 ) pepper ( white ) and ( 4 ) sugar . Then stir-fry it , or saute it , then optionally you can add little bit of starch-water to get the ' sauce ' thickened , and serve . Sometimes we use the oyster sauce to marinade the food as well , but mind you that the quality differs , if you want the best , I would suggest ' lee-kam-kee ' premium , old-style oyster sauce for this purpose , for best result , add sugar .
The most recent Cook 's Illustrated has a cinnamon swirl bread article that discusses this problem . According to them , the root cause is a lack of binding between the dough and filling . Gas from the yeast , and steam generated during baking , push into the spiral , creating pressure that compresses the dough and widens the gap . In the specific case of cinnamon bread , they recommend using powdered ( confectioner 's ) sugar instead of granulated , and using a large amount of cinnamon . The finer sugar dissolves more easily in moisture from the bread , quickly creating a paste that is reinforced by the cornstarch and by starches in the ground cinnamon . Misting the bread before adding the filling also helps . In order to make a sausage filling adhere to the bread , you would need a sticky , water-soluble element . Cornstarch or powdered gelatin spring to mind immediately as possibilities . The other tactic they employ is to actually expose the filling during proofing , preventing the yeast 's gas ( and later , steam ) from building up alongside the filling . Once the filling is rolled into the dough , the loaf is cut in half lengthwise . With the two halves laid side-by-side , cut face up ( exposing the filling ) , they are wound around each other , folding the left piece over the right until the end is reached ( this is called a " Russian braid " ) . The ends are pinched together , and the loaf is placed in the pan to proof . This , obviously , should help with any kind of filling , not just cinnamon sugar .
I do n't know how you would describe the flavor of bay -- I would call it a subtle savoriness , with a complex aroma . Bay is very tough -- almost sharp . It is generally not eaten directly . Instead , the whole leaf ( or several whole leaves ) are put into a dish or sauce to cook with it , then removed prior to service . The shortest recipe I have for using bay is in a rice pilaf while it cooks , which is 15-30 minutes depending . I am not aware of an upper time limit . Here is a Miami Herald article offering some other perspectives on using bay leaves : <URL> As they Herald points out , many folks prefer Turkish bay rather than California bay , because it has a more complex , subtle flavor . ... I believe custard in Britain had bay as a traditional ingredient -- you might make a custard with a single bay leaf to get some sense of what it tastes like without lots of competing strong flavors . ... Update : Serious Eats Food Lab has just published an article , <URL> with lots of good information that may be of interest .
I 'm not sure I 've ever seen chipotle paste called for in recipes ; I searched around a bit and what I found was consistent with my experience . I saw chipotle en adobo , ground chipotle , and even whole dried chipotle . I also easily found recipes for chipotle en adobo . I do n't think you 'll have any trouble figuring out what to do with them . The most common way I 've seen chipotles , both in grocery stores and in recipes , is chipotle en adobo . You can make your own by simmering dried chipotles in tomato paste with vinegar , garlic , onion ( search for recipes if that 's not specific enough ) . I suspect that most chipotle pastes you might find are something like this , but pureed , and possibly cooked until thicker . The other common way to use chipotles is as a powder ; that 's as easy as grinding them in a spice grinder . If you 're using them in something that gets cooked for a decent amount of time , I 'd just do this and add them , instead of making chipotle en adobo or a paste out of them . Just think of them as a spice .
I recommend <URL> I have it and use it every week to make lemonade : It 's absolutely delicious . It 's all I drink , no more soda . Last week I made cherry juice . De-pitted the cherries and repeted the same steps as above . I 've also made carrot and beet juice , but they test very strong and work better when you mix them with other juices - orange juice for example . My experience with juicing grapefruit is not good . The juice comes out very bitter and tastes very strong . In general , to reduce the bitterness in citrus juices , peel the fruit first before adding it to the juicer . As in the lemonade example , I sometimes use the lemon peels to make <URL> , or keep a few in the fridge to garnish my coffee . If you have no use for them , they will at least make your garbage smell very good . Maintenance You need to clean the juicer after each use , which can be discouraging . If you have someone who lives with you , have them help . My husband peels and juices the lemons , I wash the juicer parts while he mixes the lemonade in the pitcher . It takes us about 15 minutes from start to finish . Experiment You can throw anything in the juicer as long as you remove large pits and cut it to a size that fits the opening . It will fit a whole lemon but you need to halve an apple . The juicer - at least the model I have - also comes with a recipe book . Not that I ever used it . I just use whatever I have left over and try to make something tasty .
end question
start question
How do you finely grind coriander seeds ?
I recommend a dedicated , rotary style coffee grinder for home spice grinding . Whole spices last longer , usually taste better , and are often less expensive than pre-ground . In many food cultures , whole spices are often toasted whole , then ground . It makes a big difference for not a lot of effort . I picked up a rotary style <URL> for $ 3 at a thrift store . I use it to grind all kinds of spices . It never needs to be washed . If it starts to taste like last weeks spices , I just grind up some rice and shake it out . It works great , I 've ground spices in the same grinder for 5 years .
<URL> citing several sources from well-respected journals that says that " Research studies have shown that the healthy omega-3 oils and lignan phytonutrients in flaxseeds are surprisingly heat stable . Not only is it safe to leave whole flaxseeds at room temperature but you can also use them in baking . " This is mainly true of the ground flax , but not the oil . Here 's a couple articles they cite : Hyvarinen HK , Pihlava JM , et al. . Effect of processing and storage on the stability of flaxseed lignan added to bakery products . J Agric Food Chem . 2006 Jan 11 ; 54 ( 1 ) :48 -53 . Manthey FA , Lee RE , Hall CA 3rd . Processing and cooking effects on lipid content and stability of alpha-linolenic acid in spaghetti containing ground flaxseed . J Agric Food Chem . 2002 Mar 13 ; 50 ( 6 ) :1668 -71 As you probably know , flax seed has tons of benefits besides fiber including omega-3 's , anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory properties . It 's what they feed chickens to make those omega-3 eggs . In general , using whole flax seeds is pretty pointless from a nutritional standpoint , as we do n't really digest them ( maybe if you really chew them really well :) . <URL> can also be found on this site . For another good vegetarian source of fiber and omega-3 's , check out <URL> which you can mix into water for a healthy drink , add to food , or use like flax seed as thickener .
<URL> . For both Camembert and Brie . Next time do n't buy it ...
You would use raw corn . You can either grill it on the cob , or use a <URL> .
The product in your link has been <URL> a process which uses a rotating drum to add a thin candy shell , such as on nuts or seeds . To achieve that effect , you would need either a machine or a <URL> , as illustrated on Pastry Chef Central . <URL>
A chinoise will not -- I speak from daily experience -- filter out vanilla seeds . A coffee filter would , but my question is : why on earth would you bother ? It 's annoying to do ( and depending on what the product is , filtering through a coffee filter would ensure you lose other things ) , and seeing actual vanilla seeds in the final product tells your guests that you are using real vanilla beans , not extract . Professional kitchens do not , generally speaking , attempt to remove the seeds for the reasons noted above . @stephenmacdonald , most dessert recipes that call for a fine mesh strainer do so because there is the possibility of chunky things ending up in the product . In the case of that recipe , I would guess it is to prevent chunks of undissolved gelatine from ending up in the final dessert .
Because onions contain a lot of flavour compounds that we like , and which are synergistic with meats .
Kosher salt and a small amount of vegetable oil . Scrub the pan with the salt on a rag or paper towel , if there are stubborn bits mix a couple drops of oil with the salt , wipe dry with clean towel . If you use a wet method to clean the pan re-heat it after cleaning to make sure it is completely dry before storing .
The thing to remember , vis a vis bacterial contamination , is that it 's almost always the OUTSIDE of the meat that 's contaminated , not the inside . With pork and chicken you 're worried about an internal parasite/bacteria , which is why they 're not cooked rare . With beef , if it 's grade A , it 's good to go , and most everything you buy in the grocery store is fine . With tuna ( which is another one people like super-rare ) the story is mostly the same , though the chance of getting a parasite from fish is higher . In both cases , do a hot sear on the outside , and it 'll take care of any bacteria that may be hanging around . The reason ground beef is considered a higher threat is because the " outside " is pretty much the whole thing after the grinding process .
A non-exhaustive list of ways to get your bread to rise when it 's cold includes : Just let it rise slowly over a long period of time , which does give you good flavour but requires serious patience Put it in the airing cupboard , assuming Australian houses have such things , but in the winter the hot water tank will keep it nice and warm If it 's still in the rising in the bowl phase rather than having been shaped , you can carefully put the bowl in a larger bowl of warm water ( not too hot though or it 'll go a bit mad ) Sometimes I can get away with putting the pan with the shaped bread ready for the oven over a large bowl or bucket of hot water Put it in the oven with the pilot light on if your oven has a pilot light Put it in the top oven with the door open while you 're cooking something else in the bottom oven , if you have two ovens ( careful though , this can get too hot depending on your oven ) Encourage the cat to sleep on it
Personally , I 've never made a dish that required greasing of the crockpot - even if it called for it , I 've ignored that step and had no problems . I can only imagine the step is added to ensure nothing sticks - but my crockpot ( and all others I 've seen ) are glazed porcelain or ceramic , and the recipes always include a liquid of some kind , so I do n't think that 's going to be a problem . If I were going to grease it , however , I 'd do it in the method you described , and use a very light touch .
This is a recipe that we used for the concierge lounge when I was a chef in the main kitchen of the Disney 's Grand Floridian Resort &amp; Spa : Paneer 5 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons lemon juice Bring the milk to a boil , add the lemon juice so that the milk separates into the curds and whey . Add a bit more lemon juice if necessary . Let set for approx . 5 mins . Line a strainer with a cheesecloth and strain the milk . Reserve the whey to use in curries instead of water . Squeeze the excess whey out of the curd and fold the cloth around the paneer to form a 4-inch square . Place the paneer on a plate and place a heavy weight on top to squeeze out excess whey . Leave for about 4 hours to set .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
Perfect . Sounds like your pizza stone is nicely seasoned . Scrub it with your stiffest brush , rinse with water , no soap , done . If you 're paranoid about germs , cook it before cooking on it . Throw it in the oven at a few hundred degrees , for 15 minutes or so . Ideally , you 're supposed to heat the stone ( thus sterilizing it ) before slapping the pizza upon it anyway ( although that requires a <URL> ) .
So <URL> and <URL> suggest that there are 3 kinds of rinds . Summary below : Bloomy : Appears white , soft , maybe fuzzy . Can also be reddish/brownish . Comes on softer cheeses that have a more custard-like flavor . Formed by a spray of penicillium candidum before aging . Edible , but the flavor changes and may taste ammoniated over time ( consume so long as it 's palatable ) Washed : Color ranges from pinkish red to orange or brown . Caused by bathing the cheese in some kind of solution , be it a salty brine , beer , brandy , wine or some other alcohol . Contributes to the flavor in some cheeses , and tastes unpleasant in others . Natural : Formed by letting the cheese age on its own , drying out and growing whatever molds might be present in the cheese or air . Tends to have a concentrated flavor of the cheese , but may not be palatable . Examples : Stilton , Montgomery Cheddar , Parmigiano-Reggiano . Sometimes comes under a cloth cover . Should be edible , minus the cloth . Additionally , there are two other possibilities No Rind : There should be no guessing here . You 've probably had cheeses with no rind ... because they might come in a container . Ricotta , fresh mozzarella , and creme fraiche come to mind . Wax/Twig/Cloth : Inedible . Should be discarded My personal takeaway from this quick research is that I should learn to distinguish artificial covers ( cloth/wax ) from rinds . It seems like those that separate from the cheese will either be an artificial cover or an old rind , both of which are undesirable . If it 's indeed a rind , then I 'd taste it , both alone and with the cheese , to determine if it 's palatable . For Parmigiano-Reggiano specifically , I 've read that it goes well in soup . Perhaps this is because it 's unpalatable-y hard , but still contains the concentrated flavor . TLDR : look for cloth/wax . If none , is it tasty ? Does it feel good in the mouth ?
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
The smell of garlic is due to sulfur compounds . When you rub your hands against stainless steel , the iron of the stainless steel will react with some small volume of those compounds , but much more will remain in your hands . Rubbing your hands against an iron object <URL> . The sulfur smell compounds are water soluble to slightly water soluble , so rinsing your hands in cold water and then soap and water should work as well as the recipes suggesting Noxzema , lemon juice , salt , baking soda , raw potatoes , tomato paste solutions , or mouthwash .
Using a large amounts of seeds will significantly influence the humidity of your dough and bread . Dry seeds will soak up quite a bit of water - either during resting time or afterwards . This is especially bad when this soaking happens after baking , as your bread will get very dry ... Wholemeal tends to have the same effect . The best way to counteract this effect is to add more water and add more time This can be done either by pre-soaking the seeds , which will then " bring " the required extra water to the dough or letting a rather wet dough rest for a long time , preferably over night . The first approach is easier , because the seeds take up the required water " automatically " , the latter preferable taste-wise . Longer resting times allow for the development of complex flavors and need very little yeast or sourdough . As for recipes , you should be able to find plenty on the internet .
While using a hot oven and keeping the tin hot while filling are both critical elements , equal concern needs to be taken with making sure that your batter is at room temperature . If the eggs and milk are n't room temp to even slightly warm , then it will take a significant amount of heat to simply warm the batter in the pan before significant steam can build for their expansion . You can warm eggs quickly by placing the whole egg ( in shell ) in a bowl and covering with hot water from the tap . Let it sit for 5-10 minutes and you 'll have room temperature/warm egg . Milk can simply be microwaved to warm only slightly or you 'll cook the eggs . You might also try using bread flour . Here in the south all-purpose flour has a lower gluten content than most other all-purpose flour in the US and it 's also bleached to weaken the gluten content that 's there . I 've recommended to guests of mine that have had issues with popovers not rising that they try bread flour and I 've heard positive responses following the use of bread flour . Bread flour will also have a bit more flavor and produce more browning from the additional protein .
Yes , you can , as long as it 's a decent quality blade grinder . It 's how I fill my moka pot , which I 've been using 5 days a week for the last 4 years . You ca n't do actual espresso in a blade grinder ( it 's not possible to get the grind consistent and fine enough ) . But moka pots are a lot more flexible in the grind of coffee that they will accept . Just grind it almost as fine as you can -- this takes about 30-40 seconds of grinding in mine -- and put it in the basket .
end question
start question
Is it safe to use a cast iron skillet over a chimney starter ?
I do n't think you will hurt the pan , cast iron skillets can take a lot of heat . I think the biggest risk is that you are building a kind of dangerous tower . If you were to somehow knock it over you could hurt yourself badly .
Maybe ! There 's one big potential issue : panini presses are hinged differently . There 's a bit of variation exactly how , but the effect is that the entire top can lift up , so that it can press down flat on whatever you stick in there . Waffle irons are just designed to be filled , so they hinge at the back . If your sandwich is much smaller than the waffle iron , you can put it in the front part ( as far from the hinge as possible ) , and it wo n't matter too much , but if it takes up a decent fraction of the area , it 'll be squeezed pretty tight at the back compared to the front . This will probably make it cook unevenly , and depending on what you 've got in there , might squeeze things out . Some panini presses also have better temperature controls than waffle irons , but that 's probably not as much of a concern . So I 'd give it a shot and see how it works , plan on possibly flipping your sandwich around halfway through , and do n't be too upset if it 's not pretty ! ( rfusca 's comment above is also good - if you 're able to take off the hinge , you 'd avoid the whole problem . )
You 're going to die horribly from cooking in a rusted pan ! Just kidding ! A little iron in your food is n't going to hurt you , and can actually help prevent anemia . To quote On Food and Cooking ( pg 790 ) : " Excess iron is readily eliminated from the body , and most people can actually benefit from additional dietary iron . " Now , to back this up further : You wo n't get much iron out of the pan unless you cook something acidic in it . Rust is insoluble in water without acid present , and in order to become soluble you have to convert to iron nitrate , sulfate , or chloride , according to the <URL> Nothing you cook in there is likely to cause the necessary reactions to render it highly soluble . I found a <URL> quoting specific numbers for iron from cast iron cookware , if you are concerned . The gist is that most cooking in cast iron added from 1 to 5 mg of iron to the food , with the highest numbers coming from acidic foods with tomatoes . Applesauce was the highest , good for about 7 mg . This level of iron intake is quite safe and healthy . To give you a point of comparison , the <URL> iron intake of 8 mg/day for men , and 18 mg/day for women , and 80 % of the world may be iron deficient . Iron toxicity occurs at about 45 mg/day . So , as I initially stated , you 're perfectly safe cooking in your cast iron , and are probably helping your health rather than hurting it !
I see absolutely no reason not to do that . As you say , the very nature of diffusers is that they are n't smooth . Keep in mind that it 's not just extreme heat that you want to avoid , but also extreme changes in temperature . So you want to heat the tagine with the implement that you are using as a diffuser . Also , unglazed earthenware tagines are usually <URL> . Is your tagine glazed ? Apparently that process can also be called " healing " and involve garlic , although the term is from a different culture . <URL>
In short , the answer is no , it is NOT safe . <URL> It 's tempting to lop off the fuzzy patch , but the mold could have spread already . " Once you 're able to see mold on bread , it means there 's quite a lot of mold , " said Nelken , a food consultant in Woodland Hills , California . " It 's indicative that there 's mold on other slices , just not at the level you can see it . Why jeopardize your health on a slice of bread ? " Nelken likened mold to jellyfish . " Even though you scrape off the head of the jellyfish , the tentacles are still in the food product . " Eating moldy bread could cause an upset stomach . Although most molds are innocuous , it 's probably not going to taste good , food experts said . The U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service recommends discarding moldy bread and baked goods , because of their porous texture .
The <URL> clearly recommends not leaving cooking appliances unattended when no one is home : Based on 2006-2010 annual averages : Unattended cooking was by far the leading contributing factor in home cooking fires . [ ... ] Ranges accounted for the largest share ( 58 % ) of home cooking fire incidents . Ovens accounted for 16 % . At the time this <URL> was written , the Fire Administration said ( they have since updated the page ) : The leading cause of fires in the kitchen is unattended cooking . Stay in the kitchen when you are frying , grilling , or broiling food . If you leave the kitchen for even a short period of time , turn off the stove . If you are simmering , baking , roasting , or boiling food , check it regularly , remain in the home while food is cooking , and use a timer to remind you that you 're cooking . Stay alert ! To prevent cooking fires , you have to be alert . You wo n't be if you are sleepy , have been drinking alcohol , or have taken medicine that makes you drowsy .
I 've never heard of milk being used to season a pan and so I am a little skeptical of it . Pan seasoning is always done with fat that is heated until it polymerizes . This creates a very hard non-stick surface that makes cooking easier and protects the pan from rust . See this question for more about how to season your pan : <URL> See the article linked in one of the answers : <URL> This process , while slightly more labor intensive , produces the best seasonings I 've ever seen .
Black stuff on a cast iron skillet is most likely just a thin layer of burned food . It 's not horribly dangerous ( I 'm sure you 've eaten some charred things before ) but it does make your food look worse , so you may as well just keep your skillet clean and well-seasoned and avoid it .
It was safe to keep the rump , so why would n't it be safe to keep the slices of the rump ? The only way that , according to USDA suggestion , it would n't be safe is if , in your preparation , you 'd left the raw meat out of refrigeration for longer than two hours . These guidelines are generally conservative , but bacteria can grow quite quickly in meat above 40 ˚ F ( 4.5 ˚ C ) , and even more quickly above 70 ˚ ( 21 ˚C ) . Meat that will be served raw should be kept as cold as possible -- chilling your equipment before preparation is often a good idea . The issue , to my mind , is that it sounds like you 've already applied lemon juice . Being acidic , that juice will denature the proteins in the meat , changing its texture -- making it " mushy " . ( This is why marinades often contain acid ; up to a point , this action is perceived as tenderizing . ) There 's also likely to be some unpleasant-looking and - tasting , oxidation -- and/or maybe dehydration -- of the thin pieces of meat while they sit in the fridge . This is n't unsafe , but it does decrease the appeal of the beautiful rosy-red raw beef you 're supposed to have . Rubbing on some oil may help with this problem , as might plastic wrap directly on the surface . I 'd recommend preparing the meat as close to service as possible and dressing it , at least with the lemon and cheese , at the absolute last moment .
Ideally it should be matte to just-slightly-shiny black and very smooth . <URL> has some terrific information on the ideal oil to use ( flaxseed ) and method for seasoning , with actual scientific grounding .
Tl ; dr You can use your cast iron for anything if it is seasoned and cleaned well . I do n't have a ribbed pan and it seems that would be harder to clean so I will speak only to the smooth . My cast iron pan is reasonably well seasoned . It could be better but I only get a little sticking . Scraping it well and scrubbing with kosher salt and a paper towel cleans it spotless from almost anything . Occasionally I have to rinse it out which does n't damage the seasoning at all . When it is cleaned there are no lingering flavors from previous dishes . I often cook meat , onions , desserts , and cornbread with no problems . Cornbread has a delightfully different and deliciously rustic texture when cooked in hot cast iron .
I feed starter with a 50-50 mix of water and flour . Usually 1/2 cup water 1/2 cup flour for a small container . You can eyeball the ratio . It is n't critical to get it perfect . If you keep the starter in the fridge you can get away with feeding it twice a week depending on your yeast strain . You can do this by eye ... if the starter starts to look ugly when you take it out to feed , you should feed it a little more often . One thing I will say is that you can resurrect a starter that seems long past edible . The starter will get a cloudy fluid on top of the batter and develop a really strong smell if you let it go too long . My personal experience is that you can pour off the watery fluid and some of the batter if need be . Then add a good feeding of flour and water . It will take a little longer than usual to build up again . Yeast is a very durable critter .
The first rule to keeping food from sticking to cast-iron is to keep it well primed - it sounds like you 're doing that already . Beyond that , read <URL> - they 'll also apply to cast iron . To summarize : Food sticks when chemical bonds form between the food molecules and the metal . Very hot oil helps to reduce sticking by instantly and continuously heating the food until it 's surrounded by a layer of steam from its natural moisture content boiling . Let the oil get nice and hot before adding food . Very hot oil also binds with the pan , so food ca n't . This is the principle behind priming the pan in the first place . I have some theories regarding particular problem foods : Most of the molecular bonding occurs from proteins . Egg whites are mostly protein . Frying potatoes creates surfactants in the oil , which cause oil and water to mix . This reduces the effect of the protective layer of steam . ( Some people save and re-use cooking oil -- though it can impart a delicious flavor to later meals , it will also build up surfactants if the same oil is used too many times . ) Also , keep in mind that acidic foods like tomatoes will break down the protective patina and may make foods stick more readily .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
Sandwich or quick bread has different heat requirements than artisan breads . Artisan breads require a blast of high heat and humidity right from the beginning . They are usually baked on flat , preheated stones that store a lot of heat . With breads baked in loaf pans the bread is proofed in the pan which is obviously not preheated . The goal is not a blast of high heat but generally even heating . Stoneware and cast iron will hold a lot of heat but that is n't very useful for this type of bread . The big difference that a stoneware loaf pan will make is in the bread 's crust . Unglazed stoneware will let some moisture escape during baking . Stoneware loaf pans are often used for dishes other than bread such as meatloaf where the even heating and heat retention when serving is valuable . Bread baked in stoneware will be crustier in the area covered by the pan than bread baked in metal . This is a more compelling advantage with quickbreads . In my opinion sandwich bread does n't need to be crusty . Metal bread pans are cheaper , lighter , and less fragile . They wo n't even out any heat gradients in a sloppy oven . If you know your oven is unreliable consider getting a thermal mass ( such as a pizza stone ) to even out the temperature . I have n't used a cast iron loaf pan but my first inclination would be to use it for southern-style cornbread . This type of cornbread is normally cooked in a cast iron skillet . The pan would be preheated with hot fat and the cornbread batter would be poured in . The stored heat in the pan would fry the bread before it rose and set . I do n't know why a cast iron pan would be used for normal bread .
Of course you can store them in the fridge . When things start to smell bad , you should toss it . From what I remember off hand , every pancake or cornbread batter recipe I 've read says about a week is safe .
I 'd say that it 's not that we ca n't make cast iron pans as good as the old ones . It 's that for most companies that 's not where the money is . A company does n't make money by making super high quality cast iron ( " like the old stuff " ) that costs $ 100-200 per pan and selling them to a few cast iron enthusiasts ( those prices are random , I do n't actually know how much those would cost if they were made , but it would be a lot more than the current price ) . They make money by selling $ 15-30 cast iron cookware to loads and loads of consumers . Back in the day when manufacturing was n't as automated and people were involved in the process at a lot of steps , it did n't add much incremental cost to also sandblast and polish the surfaces , yielding the super-smooth surfaces that you used to see . Now , when lots of the manufacturing process is automated , adding in the additional time adds significantly to the cost of the product percentage wise . So , could we do it ? Yeah , sure . But big companies wo n't . I just suggest making your own :) As a side comment , newer cast iron is n't as nice as the old stuff for a number of reasons , but I use the newer style cast iron all the time ( my mom has not yet bequeathed me her old cast iron pans ) and it works great . Not as non-stick , heavier , and so forth , but still excellent for cooking .
The purpose for cleaning with salt is that it is an abrasive , and helps remove anything sticking to the pan , without being harsh enough to remove the seasoning . Its not a stop-gap measure for poor seasoning ; it is intended to preserve the seasoning . The main issue is avoiding soaps and detergents which would tend to remove the seasoning that makes cast iron fairly non-stick .
Safe ? Or good to eat ? Pesticides usually do n't penetrate thick-skinned produce ( oranges , etc ) , so as long as you 're not using the skin , there 's not a lot to worry about . They 're not the best pumpkins to use for other reasons ( linked in comments ) . In summary , the smaller " sugar " pumpkin is better for cooking , if you have the option .
My first instinct was no way , remembering that the branches and leaves contain a high amount of <URL> , which is a neurotoxin and not without risks , especially if used over a long time or while pregnant . This is the same stuff that caused absinthe to be discredited for decades . But Thuja oils typically contain 40 % α-thujon , sage ( salvia officinalis ) up to 60 % . Thuja 's pungent smell would prevent ingesting too much . So my conclusion would be : do not use for a long time or when pregnant ( most midwives caution against using sage , too , btw . ) use sparingly for health reasons , a limited amount is considered safe by health agencies world wide , <URL> for example . use very sparingly for culinary reasons , because the taste is quite " pronounced " . I had to take a herbal medicine with thuja decades ago and still shudder to think of it . ( It did work , though ... ) When thinking of potential culinary uses , think of uses for sage or juniper - you will want to use it as a spice in foods that can " handle " the woody , bitter tinge . Dark red meat or even game perhaps ? Complement with a generous amount of pepper and perhaps a good red wine . Another approach that might be worth a try is sweetening it up - like " fir syrup " ( is this known in American cuisine ? ) .
end question
