start question
Side work taxes higher if regular job salary higher ?
US income tax works this way : it is a marginal tax , i.e. the tax is calculated from each additional dollar of income , according to the following rule : there 's a number of " brackets " , and once you income is in certain bracket , the additional dollars are taxed according to this bracket , until you have enough income to go to higher bracket . Current brackets are , for single person : <URL> This means that if you earned $ 150000 , you are in 28 % bracket , and so you 'll pay 28 % income tax , or 1400 , on additional 5000 of income . If you earned only $ 50000 , you would be in 25 % bracket , so you would pay only 1250 . In fact , it 's more complicated since you can take various deductions before your income is considered for the purpose of taxation , and it can take you to different tax bracket sometimes , if you are close to the margin , so if you want to know the real tax , you better use some specialized software or talk to an accountant . But for the purpose of quick explanation , that 's how it works .
Do I report it as income ? Is it subject to just the same amount of taxes ( ~ 30 % ) as regular income ? Are there any restrictions on how it can be used ? It is income . You can deduct the costs of maintaining the web page and producing the software from it ( have an accountant do that for you , there are strict rules on how to do that , and you can only deduct up to the income if its a hobby and not a for-profit business ) , but otherwise it 's earned income like any other self employment income . It is reported on your schedule C or on line 21 of your 1040 ( miscellaneous income ) , and you 're also liable for self-employment taxes on this income . There are no restrictions , it 's your money . Technically , who is the donation even being made to ? Me , just because I own the webpage ? Yes . This is for the United States , but is there any difference if the donations come from overseas ? No , unless you paid foreign taxes on the money ( in which case you should fill form 1116 and ask for credit ) . If you create an official 501 ( c ) organization to which the donations are given , instead of you getting it directly , the tax treatment will be different . But of course , you have to have a real charitable organization for that . To avoid confusion - I 'm not a licensed tax professional and this is not a tax advice . If in doubt - talk to a EA/CPA licensed in your State .
In Singapore , this is sufficiently common that the Singapore IRS has a page on <URL> dedicated to informing employers of how to properly pay this under <URL> . Specifically , tax paid by employer is taxable income for the employee ( as it 's really the employee 's responsibility ) , so they must pay tax for that tax . A tax-on-tax is computed for the tax paid , which also would be owed by the employer if they were paying the full tax rate for the employee . As a clarification , this is not the employer being truly responsible for the employee 's income ; this is the employer compensating the employee further to offset their taxable income . This is effectively a fringe benefit , although it may be particularly useful in countries where either tax evasion is common ( and thus an employer must compete with employers willing to pay under the table ) or where employers are competing with others in nearby countries with lower tax rates . It is not the same thing as the employer making your income nontaxable , though , and has implications for your tax filing . Significantly , it is likely that if you have additional income beyond income from that employer , it is likely to be taxed at your highest tax rate , as the employer will likely calculate the tax due based on their income being the only income you have in that year . * Edit based on emphasis in question : I 'm not from Singapore nor am I a lawyer , but based on my reading of the IRAS website , it looks like you do not have to file if you have no other source of income , because they have a <URL> which takes income information from your employer automatically and generates a tax bill , which presumably would be fully paid in your case . This only aplies if you have no other sources of income , however ; you still have to file if you have other sources of income since your employer would not know about them . If you are eligible for this service , you should get a <URL> informing you as such . They also have a tool to check your filing status on their website .
You would have to compare your backtesting to what you will be doing in real trading , and try to have the backtesting as close to your real trading as possible . Note : you may never get the backtesting to match your real trading exactly but you need to get as close as possible . The whole purpose of backtesting is to check if your trading strategies - your signals , entries and exits , and your stops - are profitable over various market conditions . As you would be using actual closes to do your real trading you should be using this to also do your backtesting . Rather than using adjusted data to get an idea of your total return from your backtesting , you can always add the value of the dividends and other corporate actions to the results from using the actual data . You may even find a way to add any dividends and other corporate action to your results automatically , i.e. any dividend amount added to your total return if the stock is held during the ex-dividend date . If you are using adjusted data in your backtesting this may affect any stops you have placed , i.e. it may cause your stop to be triggered earlier or later than in real trading . So you will need to determine how you will treat your stops in real trading . Will you adjust them when there is corporate action such as dividends ? Or will you leave them constant until actual prices have gone up ? If you will be leaving your stops constant then you should definitely be using actual data in your backtesting to better match your real trading .
Mutual funds do n't work like stocks in that way . The price of a mutual fund is set at the end of each day and does n't fluctuate during the day . So no matter when you put in your order , it will be filled at the end of the day at whatever the closing price is for that day . Here is some good information on that There is no continuous pricing of fund shares throughout the trading day . When an investor places an order to buy or sell a fund 's shares , the order is executed based on the NAV calculated at the end of that trading day , regardless of what time during the day the order was placed . On the other hand , if the investor were to check the price of his or her fund shares halfway through the business day , the price quoted would be the previous day 's NAV because that was the last time the fund calculated and reported the value . - <URL>
Short Answer : You 're going to end up paying taxes on it . Despite the home being your primary residence , you do n't meet the ownership test , and it is n't noted that you have had a change in employment , health , or other unforeseen circumstances that are " forcing " you to sell . Otherwise , you could qualify for a reduced maximum exclusion that might allow you to walk away without owing taxes , or with a reduced tax bill . You ca n't even do a 1031 exchange to re-invest into a new primary residence . You should check with a tax professional to see what adjustments you can make to the cost basis of the property to minimize your reported net profits . EDIT : Ownership and Use Tests During the 5-year period prior to the sale , you must have : Owned the house for at least 2 years , and lived in the house as your main home for at least 2 years . These periods do not necessarily have to coincide ( You do n't to live in it as your main house for 2 consecutive years , just 2 years worth of time of the last 5 ) .
IRS Publication 17 Your Income Tax says on page 203 ( in regard to what you can deduct on Schedule A as an itemized deduction ) You can deduct safe deposit box rent if you use the box to store taxable income-producing stocks , bonds , or investment-related papers and documents . You can not deduct the rent if you use the box only for jewelry , other personal items , or tax-exempt securities . If you are taking the standard deduction , you get no additional tax advantage from your rental fee even if it is used solely for storage of investment property and documents . The tax advantage is incorporated into the standard deduction .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
The <URL> has a section called <URL> . Below a certain income , you are not required to file a tax return and pay any tax . This amount of income at which you are required to file depends on several things , including your dependency status ( you are a dependent of your parents ) , your marital status , and other factors . The instructions have charts that show what these numbers are . You would fall under <URL> . Assuming that you are under age 65 , unmarried , and not blind , you only have to file when you reach the following conditions : Your unearned income was over $ 1,050 . Your earned income was over $ 6,300 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- $ 1,050 , or Your earned income ( up to $ 5,950 ) plus $ 350 . ( Note : Income from YouTube would count as " earned income " for the purposes above . ) However , if you are producing your own videos and receiving revenue from them , you are technically self-employed . This means that the conditions from <URL> also apply , which state : You must file a return if any of the five conditions below apply for 2015 . You had net earnings from self-employment of at least $ 400 . As a self-employed person , you can deduct business expenses ( expenses that you incur in producing your product , which is this case is your videos ) . Once your revenue minus your expenses reach $ 400 , you will need to file an income tax return .
Auto insurance itself does not protect your assets . The $ 100k/300k amounts simply specify the maximum that the insurance company will pay out . If a lawsuit is won against you for a higher amount you will be on the hook for the remaining amount . <URL> : " So if there is a judgment against you by one person for $ 100,000 and you have the minimum limits [ as required by state law ] of $ 15,000 , you must pay the $ 85,000 difference . " At times you will want to increase your coverage to lower the risk of severe damage to your net worth . If you only have a net worth of $ 25k then having a $ 50k/100k policy is probably fine because there is a really low risk of crashing and losing a lawsuit for that in the first place , and you only have $ 25k that they could go after once insurance has paid out . ( Although could they win a lawsuit for more than your net worth and you would have to pay it off in the future ? You would have to really screw up to make a judge do that to you I think . ) Also , if you were to total someone 's $ 300k Ferrari you can bet they have under-insured motorist coverage on it for the full value of the car so the only scenario to really worry about is if you put someone in the hospital for a year . If you have a net worth of $ 1m , you should get a little more scared of losing some significant part of that to a lawsuit . So you would probably increase your coverage . I see a lot of advice online implying that you would want to carry $ 1m of coverage to " cover " your $ 1m net worth but there is not direct relationship like that . Instead , you should buy enough insurance to feel comfortable with the odds that you will never get involved in an accident with a lawsuit against you for more than your insurance coverage . At this point you should probably max out to whatever level your insurance provider will allow because the price difference is likely small and losing $ 1m to cover someone 's hospital bills would really suck . As you are growing your net worth over $ 200k I would recommend the extra maybe $ 50/year to increase your liability coverage above $ 100k / $ 300k . Other things to consider in your risk calculation are whether the other party is likely to have under-insured coverage and/or health insurance , and whether those would relieve financial burden on yourself if you were responsible .
Yes you will get back the extra money at tax time . You are not able to adjust the withholding . Each employer will pay their share , and not get a refund , but at tax time , you 'll get back any excess as if you worked one job . On the tax forms the data from each W2 is loaded , including the Social Security ( FICA ) withheld . There are a number of circumstances that can result in the worker portion being too much , say 6 months at one job , 6 months at another , but the total for the year is well above the max withhholding level . Or the OPs situation with multiple concurrent jobs . If you fill the forms manually , I ca n't tell you the form the triggers the refund ( yet ) but the reporting of the excess payments will result in a refund via the same Federal tax payment / refund method . To be clear , your federal refund will be higher , or required payment lower due the the Social Security issue .
A re-financing , or re-fi , is when a debtor takes out a new loan for the express purpose of paying off an old one . This can be done for several reasons ; usually the primary reason is that the terms of the new loan will result in a lower monthly payment . Debt consolidation ( taking out one big loan at a relatively low interest rate to pay off the smaller , higher-interest loans that rack up , like credit card debt , medical bills , etc ) is a form of refinancing , but you most commonly hear the term when referring to refinancing a home mortgage , as in your example . To answer your questions , most of the money comes from a new bank . That bank understands up front that this is a re-fi and not " new debt " ; the homeowner is n't asking for any additional money , but instead the money they get will pay off outstanding debt . Therefore , the net amount of outstanding debt remains roughly equal . Even then , a re-fi can be difficult for a homeowner to get ( at least on terms he 'd be willing to take ) . First off , if the homeowner owes more than the home 's worth , a re-fi may not cover the full principal of the existing loan . The bank may reject the homeowner outright as not creditworthy ( a new house is a HUGE ding on your credit score , trust me ) , or the market and the homeowner 's credit may prevent the bank offering loan terms that are worth it to the homeowner . The homeowner must often pony up cash up front for the closing costs of this new mortgage , which is money the homeowner hopes to recoup in reduced interest ; however , the homeowner may not recover all the closing costs for many years , or ever . To answer the question of why a bank would do this , there are several reasons : The bank offering the re-fi is usually not the bank getting payments for the current mortgage . This new bank wants to take your business away from your current bank , and receive the substantial amount of interest involved over the remaining life of the loan . If you 've ever seen a mortgage summary statement , the interest paid over the life of a 30-year loan can easily equal the principal , and often it 's more like twice or three times the original amount borrowed . That 's attractive to rival banks . It 's in your current bank 's best interest to try to keep your business if they know you are shopping for a re-fi , even if that means offering you better terms on your existing loan . Often , the bank is itself " on the hook " to its own investors for the money they lent you , and if you pay off early without any penalty , they no longer have your interest payments to cover their own , and they usually ca n't pay off early ( bonds , which are shares of corporate debt , do n't really work that way ) . The better option is to keep those scheduled payments coming to them , even if they lose a little off the top . Often if a homeowner is working with their current bank for a lower payment , no new loan is created , but the terms of the current loan are renegotiated ; this is called a " loan modification " ( especially when the Government is requiring the bank to sit down at the bargaining table ) , or in some cases a " streamlining " ( if the bank and borrower are meeting in more amicable circumstances without the Government forcing either one to be there ) . Historically , the idea of giving a homeowner a break on their contractual obligations would be comical to the bank . In recent times , though , the threat of foreclosure ( the bank 's primary weapon ) does n't have the same teeth it used to ; someone facing 30 years of budget-busting payments , on a house that will never again be worth what he paid for it , would look at foreclosure and even bankruptcy as the better option , as it 's theoretically all over and done with in only 7-10 years . With the Government having a vested interest in keeping people in their homes , making whatever payments they can , to keep some measure of confidence in the entire financial system , loan modifications have become much more common , and the banks are usually amicable as they 've found very quickly that they 're not getting anywhere near the purchase price for these " toxic assets " . Sometimes , a re-fi actually results in a higher APR , but it 's still a better deal for the homeowner because the loan does n't have other associated costs lumped in , such as mortgage insurance ( money the guarantor wants in return for underwriting the loan , which is in turn required by the FDIC to protect the bank in case you default ) . The homeowner pays less , the bank gets more , everyone 's happy ( including the guarantor ; they do n't really want to be underwriting a loan that requires PMI in the first place as it 's a significant risk ) . The U.S. Government is spending a lot of money and putting a lot of pressure on FDIC-insured institutions ( including virtually all mortgage lenders ) to cut the average Joe a break . Banks get tax breaks when they do loan modifications . The Fed 's buying at-risk bond packages backed by distressed mortgages , and where the homeowner has n't walked away completely they 're negot
Here are a few points to consider : Taxes : As a consultant , you will be responsible for the employer portion of the Social Security and Medicare taxes , and you might have to pay for state unemployment insurance and state disability insurance , as well . Office expenses : As a consultant , you may be required to buy your own laptop , pay for your own software licenses and buy other office-related supplies . For higher-end services , you may be setting up a complete office and even hire your own secretary and other support staff . Benefits : As a consultant , you will be responsible for your own health insurance , retirement plan and other benefits that an employer would ordinarily provide . Education : Your employer will likely pay for books and magazine subscriptions and send you to seminars , in order to keep your skills current ; your client wo n't . Liability : Consultants face certain liabilities that employees do n't , and have to factor the cost of insuring against those risks into their rate . Let 's say you 're a software developer , and your faulty code causes a nuclear plant 's reactor core to overheat and melt down . As an employee , you 'll get fired . As a consultant , you will get sued . Even consultants in low-risk fields can easily shell out thousands of dollars per year for a basic general liability policy . Sales &amp; marketing : Do n't forget that when your contract ends , you will have expenses associated with finding your next client , including the opportunity cost of not getting paid for your services during that time . All these factors contribute to your overhead , which you have to roll into your consulting rate . You should also add a margin of profit -- after all , as you 're in business for yourself , you should be compensated for taking this entrepreneurial risk . If you 're looking for a quick over-the-thumb rule , you can figure that your equivalent consulting rate should be about twice what you would be paid hourly as an employee . Assuming you work 2,000 hours a year , if you would receive a $ 100,000 salary , your hourly rate should be $ 100 . Of course , this is only a very rough guideline . Ultimately , your rate will mostly be influenced by how established you are and how much your services are in demand .
You can see some IRS info on distinguishing a business from a hobby <URL> . Nolo also has <URL> . The upshot is that you can only deduct losses if your activity is , in the judgement of the IRS , a for-profit endeavor . You do n't have to make a profit right away , or make a profit every year , for it to be a for-profit endeavor , but you have to be able to convince the IRS that you 're doing it in order to ( eventually ) make a profit , not just for fun . You ca n't just keep deducting the losses year after year if ( as in the worst case you suggest ) it never makes a profit and does n't seem to have any chance of doing so .
Two " data sources " I 've used : Former coworkers I 've kept in touch with , especially if they 're now working as hiring managers for the type of job I 'm seeking . A quick call to them , and they 'll usually provide the range you can expect to see . Recruiters . There are several recruiters that I 've been in occasional contact with for several years . None of them have ever placed me , but I 've forwarded their open positions to some friends . When I 've asked they 've been willing to give me typical ranges for annual salary and hourly contract rates . Obviously , you need to keep your network active in order to be able to tap either of these sources for data .
The cash ISA limits will be going up to # 15,000 in July as part of the recently announced <URL> changes in the Budget , so if you do n't expect any more significant amounts to save in the next tax year there 's no desperate need to rush to use this year 's allowance . Of course if you might have another # 10,000 before next March then definitely use the # 5,760 now - you 'll be able to transfer it to the new scheme ( or it 'll be transferred automatically ) . They will also be broadening the range of things you 'll be able to invest in with an ISA ( for example peer-to-peer loans ) , so I 'd anticipate that over time the potential returns will improve . Note that you 'll be able to keep the money in the ISA for the rest of your life , so the tax benefits accumulate .
There are two scenarios to determine the relevant date , and then a couple of options to determine the relevant price . Relevant Date If the stocks were purchased in your name from the start - then the relevant date is the date of the purchase . If the stocks were willed to you ( i.e. : you inherited them ) , then the relevant date is the date at which the person who willed them to you had died . How to figure out You can check with the company if they have records of the original purchase . If it was in " street name " - they may not have such records , and then you need to figure out what broker it was to hold them . Figuring the price Once you figured out the relevant date , contact the company 's " investor relationships " contact and ask them for the adjusted stock price on that date ( adjusted for splits/mergers/acquisitions / whatever ) . That would be the cost basis per share you would be using . Alternatively you can research historical prices on your favorite financial information site ( Google/Yahoo/Bloomberg or the stock exchange where the company is listed ) . Last Resort If you can not figure the cost basis , or it costs too much - you can just write cost basis as $ 0 , and claim the whole proceeds as gains . You 'll pay capital gains tax on the whole amount , but that may end up being cheaper than conducting the investigation to reveal the actual numbers .
The long term view you are referring to would be over 30 to 40 years ( i.e. your working life ) . Yes in general you should be going for higher growth options when you are young . As you approach retirement you may change to a more balanced or capital guaranteed option . As the higher growth options will have a larger proportion of funds invested into higher growth assets like shares and property , they will be affected by market movements in these asset classes . So when there is a market crash like with the GFC in 2007/2008 and share prices drop by 40 % to 50 % , then this will have an effect on your superannuation returns for that year . I would say that if your fund was invested mainly in the Australian stock market over the last 7 years your returns would still be lower than what they were in mid-2007 , due to the stock market falls in late 2007 and early 2008 . This would mean that for the 7 year time frame your returns would be lower than a balanced or capital guaranteed fund where a majority of funds are invested in bonds and other fixed interest products . However , I would say that for the 5 and possibly the 10 year time frames the returns of the high growth options should have outperformed the balanced and capital guaranteed options . See examples below : First State Super AMP Super Both of these examples show that over a 5 year period or less the more aggressive or high growth options performed better than the more conservative options , and over the 7 year period for First State Super the high growth option performed similar to the more conservative option . Maybe you have been looking at funds with higher fees so in good times when the fund performs well the returns are reduced by excessive fees and when the fund performs badly in not so good time the performance is even worse as the fees are still excessive . Maybe look at industry type funds or retail funds that charge much smaller fees . Also , if a fund has relatively low returns during a period when the market is booming , maybe this is not a good fund to choose . Conversely , it the fund does n't perform too badly when the market has just crashed , may be it is worth further investigating . You should always try to compare the performance to the market in general and other similar funds . Remember , super should be looked at over a 30 to 40 year time frame , and it is a good idea to get interested in how your fund is performing from an early age , instead of worrying about it only a few years before retirement .
There is no tax reason limiting you from selling and buying investments , in Traditional IRAs , 401k plans , 403b plans etc as well as their Roth versions since you do n't have to pay capital gains on the transactions ( but ca n't deduct the losses either ) . But one thing to keep in mind is that ultimately when money is distributed from a non-Roth tax-deferred account , it comes out as pure income that is taxed at the then current rate without any of the special tax treatment that is afforded to capital gains , qualified dividends , etc. . Depending on where you are in your life cycle , it might be preferable to have a huge capital gain in a non-tax-deferred account and pay taxes ( at reduced rates ) on it right now rather than to receive the same gain in a non-Roth tax-deferred account and pay taxes on it as simple income when you take it out . For Roth accounts , you will have paid taxes up front when the money went in , and withdrawals are tax-free so it is better to have the huge gain in the Roth rather than outside the Roth .
Buyouts are usually for more than the ORIGINAL value of a stock . That 's because the price " premium " represents an incentive for holders to " tender " their shares to the would-be buyer . Sometimes in these situations , the stock price rises above the proposed buyout price , in anticipation of a higher takeover bid from a SECOND party ( that may or may not materialize ) . To answer the other part of the question , does a bidder have a chance of taking over a dying company for less than the market price ? That is a strategy sometimes referred to as a " take under , " and it has not been a notably successful strategy . That 's because it goes against " human nature " ( of the seller ) . " Where there is life , there is hope . " They would seldom accept a lower price for " sure " survival , when the market is telling them that they are worth a higher price . Very few people realize that the market may disappear tomorrow . Think of all the homeowners who wo n't cut their price , but insist on bids that meet recent " comps . " And if the company is really dying , the prospective buyer may be best served by waiting until it does , and then pick up the individual pieces at auction .
end question
start question
How smart is it to really be 100 % debt free ?
If you can borrow for an asset that gives you income that 's more than the cost of carrying the debt , then go for it . But the kinds of debts you have now are n't those kinds of debt , so get rid of them .
This is a scam going around . The recording is soliciting a call back at which point they will try to get you to pay down your " debt " with on a credit card . If you get such a call , you should report it to the FTC . Include the number that call you if you can . <URL> If you already gave out information based on such a call , you should contact the Treasury Inspector General . <URL> Source : <URL>
The stock should fall by approximately the amount of the dividend as that is what is paid out . If you have a stock trading at $ 10/share and it pays a $ 1/share dividend , the price should drop to $ 9 as what was trading before the dividend was paid would be both the dividend and the stock itself . If the person bought just for the dividend then it would likely be neutral as there is n't anything extra to be gained . Consider if this was n't the case . Would n't one be able to buy a stock a few days before the dividend and sell just after for a nice profit ? That does n't make sense and is the reason for the drop in price . Similarly , if a stock has a split or spin-off there may be changes in the price to reflect that adjustment in value of the company . If I give you 2 nickels for a dime , the overall value is still 10 cents though this would be 2 coins instead of one . Some charts may show a " Dividend adjusted " price to factor out these transactions so be careful of what prices are quoted .
Depending on what you need to explain , you can submit your electronic return without the supplemental information and subsequently mail a Form 8453 with the additional information . This is helpful for form 8489 , for example , where you need to list every transaction reported by your stock broker on a 1099-B . See <URL> for more details on this form . If the information you need to submit an attachment for does n't follow one of the options on that form , you will likely need to file a paper return or use a paid tax preparation service/application . Limitations of FreeFile are explained here , along with a list of forms that are available : <URL> The " Attaching Statements " and " Write-in information " sections seem like they might apply to your situation . Attaching Statements - If you need to add statements and you ca n't use Form 8453 , U.S. Individual Income Tax Transmittal for an IRS e-file Return , to mail that information , you will not be able to use this program to efile your return Identity Protection PIN 's ( IP PIN ) - This program only supports the entry of a Primary taxpayer 's IP PIN . If the spouse or dependents have an IP PIN , you can not use this program to efile the return . Writing In Information - Your ability to " write in " additional information to explain an entry is generally limited to the 1040 forms and some of the more frequently submitted forms . If you need to write in additional information on a form , other than the 1040 series , you may not be able to use this program to efile your tax return . E-filing Forms - To efile forms , ( except Form 4868 ) they must be attached to a 1040 series form ( 1040 , 1040A or 1040EZ ) . Form Limitations - There may be Known Limitations of forms you plan to complete . Please review them . A form limitation may keep you from completing or e-filing your return .
Good question , and increasingly common for professionals . If you 're intending to return to your starting point ( i.e. retire back in your " home " country ) then your existing retirement vehicles will be fine . However , if not , structured policies do n't transfer largely because of tax rules . Global firms have employees that shift about and sometimes have systems in place to permit their employees to move pensions with them . So a little forward planning may be required if you use an employer to smooth your emigration difficulties . Otherwise , international currency-denominated equities will make things more flexible . The US dollar does n't look too good right now and , in 30 years , may no longer be the world 's reserve currency , so you 'll probably want a currency basket to hedge that far ahead . That means buying equities on a range of different exchanges to gain access to different currencies when you sell ( or receive dividends ) . Fortunately , that is n't as difficult as it was a few years ago and numerous online investment services can permit you to trade around the world with a single account . See , for example : <URL> <URL> <URL> E * Trade , Sharebuilder , TD Ameritrade and Scottrade as options as well .
The best way I know of to get the interest rate lowered is to call the credit card company and simply ask . Typically if a credit card company thinks you will leave them for another company they will be willing to work with you . There is also the option of transfering some of the higher interest debt to one of the lower interest credit cards . It sounds like you have your friend on the right track by focusing all extra money on the credit card with the highest interest rate . Then after that one is paid off send all extra to the next highest one and so on . The classic " snowball " effect .
To confirm : you say you have credit card debt of $ 18,000 with min . repayment of $ 466.06 , plus on top of this you are also paying off a car loan and another personal loan . From my calculations if your monthly interest on your credit card is $ 237 , the interest on your credit card should be about 15.8 % p.a. Is this correct ? Balance Transfer If you did a balance transfer of your $ 18,000 to a new credit card with 0 % for 14 months and keep your repayments the same ( $ 466 ) you would have saved yourself a bit over $ 3020 in interest over those 14 months . Your credit card balance after 14 months would be about $ 11,471 ( instead of $ 14,476 with your current situation ) . If your interest after the 14 months went back to 15.8 % you would be able to pay the remaining $ 11,471 in 2.5 more years ( keeping repayments at $ 466 ) , saving 10 months off your repayments and a total of $ 4,781 in interest over 3 years and 8 months . The main emphasis here is that you are able to keep your repayments at least the same so you are able to pay off the debt quicker , and that your interest rate on the new credit card after the 14 months interest free is not more than your current interest rate of 15.8 % . Things you should be careful about if you take this path : make sure the new credit card has no hidden fees ( read the PDS carefully ) . make sure the new credit card interest rate is not more than your current interest rate after the interest free period . make sure you keep paying at least your current minimum repayments you are paying now and if you can reduce other expenses then increase these payments even more to save even more interest and save even more time paying off the debt . Stop any new spending on the credit card . Debt Consolidation In regards to a Debt Consolidation for your personal loan and credit card ( and possibly your car loan ) into a single lower interest rate loan can be a good idea , but there are some pitfalls you should consider . Manly , if you are taking out a loan with a lower interest rate but a longer term to pay it off , you may end up paying less in monthly repayments but will end up paying more interest in the long run . If you do take this course of action try to keep your term to no longer than your current debt 's terms , and try to keep your repayments as high as possible to pay the debt off as soon as possible and reduce any interest you have to pay . As you already have you credit card and personal loan with <URL> talk to them to see what kind of deal they can give you . Again be wary of the fine print and read the PDS of any products you are thinking of getting . Refer to <URL> website for more valuable information you should consider before taking out any debt consolidation . Other Action You Can Take If you are finding that the repayments are really getting out of hand and no one will help you with any debt consolidation or reducing your interest rates on your debts , as a last resort you can apply for a <URL> . But be very careful as this is an alternative to bankruptcy , and like bankruptcy a debt agreement will appear on your credit file for seven years and your name will be listed on the National Personal Insolvency Index forever . Further Assistance and Help If you have trouble reading any PDS , or want further information or help regarding any issues I have raised or any other part of your financial situation you can contact <URL> . They provide a free and confidential service that provides education and information on financial and lifestyle issues to all Australians .
You can think of it like this : the credit report is the raw data , and the FICO score is the quick-and-dirty number that sums up for creditors how risky you are . Your FICO score determines whether or not you 're given a credit card or a loan , as well as what interest rate you 'll pay , and can even influence a decision about whether someone will rent you an apartment or give you a cell phone . A FICO score is calculated based on information from your credit report , specifically 1 ) your record of paying your bills on time , 2 ) the ratio of how much debt you have compared to the total of all your credit limits ( i.e. how much of your credit you 're currently using ) , 3 ) the length of your credit history , 4 ) how much you 've been applying for new credit recently , and 5 ) your mix of credit cards and loans . ( I used Suze Orman 's <URL> to refresh my memory on this list . ) A credit report lists every creditor you currently or recently have had a relationship with . ( I think old creditors drop off 7 years after the account is closed . ) For each credit card or loan , it lists the date you opened the account , your current balance , the starting balance or credit limit , and month-by-month whether your payment was on time , or late . There are three bureaus that collect this information , Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion . You can obtain a free copy of each of your three credit reports once a year through <URL> . Each of the bureaus will also offer to allow you to see your FICO score for an extra fee ( $ 7.95 with my favorite , Equifax ) . I think it 's well worth it to check it every 6 months or so . One last note about FICO scores ... the " FICO " part is important . The FICO score is the real one . I 've seen lots of offers from credit cards , etc , offering a " free credit score . " If they 're not saying it 's a FICO credit score , it 's not , and it 's pretty useless . Lots of great information here : <URL> . Enjoy !
Your maximum risk is 100 % . If you buy the stock 15 % off and your company goes bankrupt tomorrow , you 've lost everything . It also sounds like you have foreign exchange risk . One can debate how much risk this is in terms of expected outcomes , but that was not your question . However , if you purchase the company stock and buy put options at the same time , you can lock in a sale price ahead of time and absolutely limit your risk . Depending on the amount of stock we 're talking about , you can buy currency futures as well to hedge the exchange risk . You do n't necessarily have to buy the break-even strikes , you can buy the ones that guarantee a positive return . These are probably fairly cheap . Note that a lot of companies have policies that prohibit beneficiaries from shorting the company stocks , in which case you might not be able to hedge yourself with put options .
Some ideas : You could begin shorting Canadian bank stocks that are issuing all the debt that may not be paid back . You have to be careful here . If things implode like they did in the US then the Canadian central bank ( Bank of Canada ) will bail out the " too big to fail " banks by printing money to cover their losses . You may want to stay away from the Big 5 - Royal Bank of Canada , Toronto-Dominion Bank , Bank of Nova Scotia , Bank of Montreal , and Cannadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and short stock of smaller banks . Money was still made , however , shorting even the big banks : You could short construction companies that are currently benefiting from the artifically low interest rates . I do n't know of the major construction companies in Canada . If things were to crash , where are people going to put their money ? This would be a good area to go long . In the US many piled into US treasuries . You could buy some Canadian treasuries and if the crash occurs , sell your treasuries when everyone is looking to buy . Buy stock in retail companies that offer very cheap goods . When the correction happens people become very frugal with their money : Buy stock in companies that produce goods that are desired in countries where economies are growing ( think China and Brazil ) . Canada is very fortunate in this regard with lots of mining and other natural resource companies ( e.g. Potash , Barrick Gold , etc. ) .
Your understanding is indeed wrong . Bond yield is the effective interest rate relative to the current market price of the bond , and it is anything but fixed . There was never anyone actually paying or receiving 42 % interest in the whole affair . What happened is that bonds with a nominal interest rate of perhaps 10 % ( for simplicity 's sake , and probably not too unrealistic at that point ) were selling at less than 25 % of their nominal value . Basically , there were bonds that said " The Greek government will pay you 100 EUR in 10 years , and until then 10 EUR each year " , which someone had originally paid 100 EUR for , but now people were only willing to pay about 24 EUR for them ( which would have made the 10 EUR per year a 42 % ROI ) . Why were they only willing to pay that little ? Because at that time everyone thought that there was a pretty good chance that Greece would default and they would get neither the 10 EUR interest payment nor the 100 EUR principal in 10 years , and instead would end up losing the 24 EUR they had just paid . What actually happened was a debt restructuring with the effect that Greece is now paying back considerably less , both yearly and at the end of the maturity period , which means that the people who paid 24 EUR for those bonds are getting a much less spectacular ROI ( not sure how much exactly , but probably still pretty good , after all they did bear a considerable risk of total loss ) . The takeaway ? A high bond yield is actually a big warning sign when you 're looking for an investment , because it means the market thinks it 's a high risk investment .
There are several reasons it is not recommended to trade stocks pre - or post-market , meaning outside of RTH ( regular trading hours ) . Liquidity is very low compared to RTH Fills of market orders can be way off your ordered price ( = possibly higher slippage than in RTH ) because of low Liquidity If you use a leveraged account , pre - and post-market margins are significantly higher than during RTH Since your question is not very detailed I have to assume you trade with a time horizon of at least more than a day , meaning you do not trade intra-day . If this is true , all of the above points are a non-issue for you and a different set of points becomes important . Enter and exit trades during post-market or enter and exit trades at market open , using orders you enter one day before in the post-market session - those orders will be executed automatically or enter trades via Limit and Stop Limit Orders exclusively As a general rule , using ( 3 ) is the safest regardless of what and how you trade because you get price guarantee in trade for execution guarantee . In the case of mid to longer term trading ( 1 week + ) any of those points is viable , depending on how you want to do things , what your style is and what is the most comfortable for you . A few remarks though : ( 2 ) are market orders , so if the open is quite the ride and you are in the back of the execution queue , you can get significant slippage . ( 1 ) may require ( live ) data of the post-market session , which is often not easy to come by for the entire US stock universe . Depending on your physical execution method ( phone , fax , online ) , you may lack accurate information of the post-market . If you want to execute orders based on RTH and only want to do that after hours because of personal schedule constraints , this is not really important . Personally I would always recommend ( 3 ) , independent of the use case because it allows you more control over your orders and their fills . TL ; DR : If you are trading long-term it does not really matter . If you go down to the intra-day level of holding time , it becomes relevant .
It appears that co-signing does impact your debt-to-income ratio , at least in the US . An article on <URL> says : The loan you 've co-signed for can show up on your credit report , just like any other debt you have ... As a result , the loan you 've co-signed for can increase the size of your outstanding debt -- added to your mortgage , credit-card balances , car loan or student loans -- when lenders are deciding whether to let you borrow more money . You might have a tough time taking out other loans if the lender decides that your debt-to-income ratio or balance-to-credit limit is too high -- even if the payment history is perfect . An article on <URL> agrees saying : When you cosign any form of loan or line of credit , you are liable for the amount of money borrowed . This may affect your ability to borrow money for yourself because a lender for a larger loan , such as vehicle and home loans , will include the amount of the loan you cosigned on as part of your debt load when calculating your debt-to-income ratio . There is a similar question <URL> .
First , a margin account is required to trade options . If you buy a put , you have the right to deliver 100 shares at a fixed price , 50 can be yours , 50 , you 'll buy at the market . If you sell a put , you are obligated to buy the shares if put to you . All options are for 100 shares , I am unaware of any partial contract for fewer shares . Not sure what you mean by leveraging the position , can you spell it out more clearly ?
According to Clark Howard . The best mix is to have at least two reward cards for no other reason than rewards , but you actually should have more as far as credit score goes . 30 % of your credit score is based on how much of your credit that you use . I had only 17k in credit . I usually spend 6k a month and pay it off every month . I went to 4 credit cards got the total line up to over 40k and because my usage went down to about 12 % of total credit , my credit score went up about 40 points to mid 700 's after two months Long story short the more credit cards you have the better for your credit score . You should use each one twice a year to keep them active . ( Not relevant for a store credit card , you do n't want to buy something from macy 's for the sake of keeping the card active )
Do I report it as income ? Is it subject to just the same amount of taxes ( ~ 30 % ) as regular income ? Are there any restrictions on how it can be used ? It is income . You can deduct the costs of maintaining the web page and producing the software from it ( have an accountant do that for you , there are strict rules on how to do that , and you can only deduct up to the income if its a hobby and not a for-profit business ) , but otherwise it 's earned income like any other self employment income . It is reported on your schedule C or on line 21 of your 1040 ( miscellaneous income ) , and you 're also liable for self-employment taxes on this income . There are no restrictions , it 's your money . Technically , who is the donation even being made to ? Me , just because I own the webpage ? Yes . This is for the United States , but is there any difference if the donations come from overseas ? No , unless you paid foreign taxes on the money ( in which case you should fill form 1116 and ask for credit ) . If you create an official 501 ( c ) organization to which the donations are given , instead of you getting it directly , the tax treatment will be different . But of course , you have to have a real charitable organization for that . To avoid confusion - I 'm not a licensed tax professional and this is not a tax advice . If in doubt - talk to a EA/CPA licensed in your State .
" Offset against taxable gains " means that the amount - $ 25 million in this case - can be used to reduce another sum that the company would otherwise have to pay tax on . Suppose the company had made a profit of $ 100 million on some other investments . At some point , they are likely to have to pay corporation tax on that amount before being able to distribute it as a cash dividend to shareholders . However if they can offset the $ 25 million , then they will only have to pay tax on $ 75 million . This is quite normal as you usually only pay tax on the aggregate of your gains and losses . If corporation tax is about 32 % that would explain the claimed saving of approximately $ 8 million . It sounds like the Plaintiffs want the stock to be sold on the market to get that tax saving . Presumably they believe that distributing it directly would not have the same effect because of the way the tax rules work . I do n't know if the Plaintiffs are right or not , but if they are the difference would probably come about due to the stock being treated as a " realized loss " in the case where they sell it but not in the case where they distribute it . It 's also possible - though this is all very speculative - that if the loss is n't realised when they distribute it directly , then the " cost basis " of the shareholders would be the price the company originally paid for the stock , rather than the value at the time they receive it . That in turn could mean a tax advantage for the shareholders .
There are lots of sub-parts to your question . Let 's takle them one at a time . Should I worry about an IRA at this age ? Absolutely ! Or at least some form of retirement account . When you are young is the BEST time to start putting money into a retirement account because you have so much time for it to grow . <URL> . Even if you can only afford to put a very small amount in the account , do it ! You will have to put a heck of a lot less money into the account over your working career if you start now . Is there a certain amount you need for the IRA deduction ? No . Essentially with a traditional IRA you can just subtract the amount you deposited ( up to the contribution limit ) from your income when calculating your taxes . What kind of IRA should I get ? I suggest a ROTH IRA , but be warned that with that kind you get the tax breaks when you retire , not now . If you think taxes will be higher in 40 years or so , then the Roth is a clear winner . Traditional IRA : Tax deduction this year for contribution ; investment plus gains are taxed as income when you take the money out at retirement . Roth IRA : Investment amount is taxed in the year you put it in ; no taxes on investment amount or gains when you take it out at retirement . Given the long horizon that you will be investing , the money is likely going to at least double . So the total amount you are taxed on over your lifetime would probably be less with the ROTH even if tax rates remain the same . Is the 401K a better option ? If they offer a match ( most do ) then it is a no-brainer , the employer 401K always comes out on top because they are basically paying you extra to put money into savings . If there is no match , I suggest a Roth because company 401K plans usually have hidden fees that are much higher than you are going to pay for setting up your own IRA or Roth IRA with a broker .
putting tax free investments into your traditional IRA I 'm not religious , but I know there 's a special place in hell for anyone advising this . Your Roth is tax free regardless of what was held inside . Your traditional IRA if funded with pre-tax money , is 100 % taxed on withdrawals regardless of what was invested in the account . I 'll give the author the benefit of the doubt and assume you misunderstood . I see Ed Slott wrote the introduction to that book , and Mr Slott knows his stuff . If not , the author got it very wrong .
The word " good " was used in contrast to " bad " but these words are misused here . There are three kinds of debt : Debt for spending . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacations , or other purchases with no lasting financial value . Debt for depreciating assets , such as cars and sometimes things like furniture . There are those who put this in the same category as the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they are renting their car and paying interest while doing so . Debt for appreciating , money-making assets . Mortgage and student loans are both often put into the good category . The house is the one purchase that , in theory , provides an immediate return . You know what it saves you on the rent . You know what it costs you , after tax . If someone pays 20 % of their income toward their fixed rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be paying 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loans are riskier in that the return is not at all guaranteed . I think that one has to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 years is pretty crazy , but some are in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt as bad debt , live beneath their means to be debt free as soon as they can , and avoid borrowing money .
end question
start question
Non US-resident , need to file 83b election TODAY with the IRS - I have an SSN but it says " valid for work only with DHS auth " - is this OK ?
Google that " valid for work ... " phrase . You 'll find that you have a SSN ; it is valid for many purposes ; it is valid for obtaining work , only when accompanied by DHS authorization . Does n't anyone know how to use commas anymore ?
If you can afford it , Yes . You will be able to roll it over ( however much it has in it ) to your next 401K , or to your own self-directed IRA . Anything you can afford to save now will begin to compound , and with compounding ( and being in your mid-twenties ) , time is everything .
<URL> covers Moving Expenses . According to Pub 521 , in order to deduct moving expenses , there are <URL> , one of which is called the <URL> : Time Test for Employees If you are an employee , you must work full time for at least 39 weeks during the first 12 months after you arrive in the general area of your new job location ( 39-week test ) . Full-time employment depends on what is usual for your type of work in your area . For purposes of this test , the following four rules apply . You count only your full-time work as an employee , not any work you do as a self-employed person . You do not have to work for the same employer for all 39 weeks . You do not have to work 39 weeks in a row . You must work full time within the same general commuting area for all 39 weeks . Yes , the 39-week employment period is a requirement . However , the 39 weeks do not have to be consecutive nor with the same employer . Also , the 39 weeks do not have to be complete before taking the deduction . Pub 521 goes on further to explain this in the section <URL> . Essentially , you can deduct your moving expenses if you think that you will meet this 39-week requirement over the 12 months following your move . If you decide to take the deduction and then it turns out that you did not meet the 39-week test , you must fix it by either amending your tax return or adding the deduction back in as " extra income " on the next year 's return . Pub 521 also lists <URL> which will get you out of the time test , ( including getting laid off ) , but quitting is not one of them . Since you have already left the area , you will not meet this 39-week test and should not deduct the expenses for that move . However , in moving back to your home state , you have made a new move that might be eligible for deduction , depending on your job situation .
The ( assets - liabilities ) / #shares of a company is its book value , and that number is included in their reports . It 's easy for a fund to release the net asset value on a daily basis because all of its assets ( stocks , bonds , and cash ) are given values every day by the market . It 's also necessary to have a real time value for a fund as it will be bought and sold every day . A company ca n't really do the same thing as it will have much more diverse assets - real estate , cars , inventory , goodwill , etc. . The real time value of those assets does n't have the same meaning as a fund ; those assets are used to earn cash , while a fund 's business is only to maximize its net asset value .
This is normal . The routing numbers were used once long time ago to actually physically route the checks to your branch ( or the main area branch ) . Then , the correct routing number was necessary for the check to physically reach you ( the checks were eventually mailed back to the customers ) . Now , it is all done electronically , and there 's no need in area-bound routing numbers any more .
No , inaction is not always the rational choice in your scenario . To give an extreme example as proof : Let 's say that you have $ 1,000 . The <URL> of inaction is $ 0 - you will end up with the same amount ( minus inflation , but we can ignore that for this exercise ) . If your only other option is an investment which has a 75 % chance of losing all of your money , and a 25 % chance of doubling your money , then your expected value is ( ( 75 % * - $ 1,000 ) + ( 25 % * $ 1,000 ) ) = - $ 500 . In that case your best option is obviously inaction . However , let 's say that you have a 75 % chance of losing all of your money , but a 25 % chance of making $ 1,000,000 on your investment . In that case , the expected value of investing is ( ( 75 % * - $ 1,000 ) + ( 25 % * $ 1,000,000 ) ) = $ 249,250 . This means that the rational thing is to make the investment . Basically , the 25 % chance of making $ 1M is worth the 75 % chance of losing everything .
If you are looking for a European financials ETF to short , you could take a look at the iShares EURO STOXX Banks , which is traded on a a few German stock exchanges ( Frankfurt etc. ) : <URL> You find its current holdings here : <URL> .
The IRA contribution for the year are allowed until the tax day of that year . I.e. : you can contribute for 2015 until April 15th , 2016 ( or whatever the first business day is after that , if the 15th is a holiday ) . You 'll have to explicitly designate your contribution for 2015 , since some of the IRA providers may automatically designate the current year unless you explicitly say otherwise . If that happens - it will be very hard to fix later , so pay attention when you 're making the contribution . You get a couple of things from your IRA provider : <URL> - details your contributions for the year , account FMV , and RMD details . You can see the actual form <URL> . You do n't always get this form , if you did n't contribute anything and no RMD is required for you . Since the last day to contribute is April 15th , these forms are usually being sent out around mid-May . But you should know how much you 've contributed by the tax day without it , obviously , so this is only for the IRS matching and your record-tracking . <URL> includes information about distributions ( including withdrawals and roll-overs ) . You may not get this form if you did n't take any money out of your IRA . These come out around end of January .
Not all limit orders add liquidity , but all market orders remove liquidity presuming there is liquidity to remove . A liquidity providing order is one that is posted to the limit book . If an order , even a limit order , is filled before being posted to the limit book , it removes liquidity . Liquidity is measured by a balance and abundance of quantities posted on the limit book and the best spread between the lowest ask and the highest bid .
It depends on the notice . It should usually be explicitly mentioned on the notice . Since in your case they 're rejecting the amended return , you are not limited by the usual 30/60/90 days , but by the dead-line to amend the return . Worst case you can just resubmit the amended return and attach the missing documentation to the submission . But better to respond to the letter and resolve the issue now than to restart the whole process later . The CPA should already have all the documentation from preparing the return .
Depends . The short answer is yes ; HSBC , for instance , based in New York , is listed on both the LSE and NYSE . Toyota 's listed on the TSE and NYSE . There are many ways to do this ; both of the above examples are the result of a corporation owning a subsidiary in a foreign country by the same name ( a holding company ) , which sells its own stock on the local market . The home corporation owns the majority holdings of the subsidiary , and issues its own stock on its " home country 's " exchange . It is also possible for the same company to list shares of the same " pool " of stock on two different exchanges ( the foreign exchange usually lists the stock in the corporation 's home currency and the share prices are near-identical ) , or for a company to sell different portions of itself on different exchanges . However , these are much rarer ; for tax liability and other cost purposes it 's usually easier to keep American monies in America and Japanese monies in Japan by setting up two " copies " of yourself with one owning the other , and move money around between companies as necessary . Shares of one issue of one company 's stock , on one exchange , are the same price regardless of where in the world you place a buy order from . However , that does n't necessarily mean you 'll pay the same actual value of currency for the stock . First off , you buy the stock in the listed currency , which means buying dollars ( or Yen or Euros or GBP ) with both a fluctuating exchange rate between currencies and a broker 's fee ( one of those cost savings that make it a good idea to charter subsidiaries ; could you imagine millions a day in car sales moving from American dealers to Toyota of Japan , converted from USD to Yen , with a FOREX commission to be paid ? ) . Second , you 'll pay the stock broker a commission , and he may charge different rates for different exchanges that are cheaper or more costly for him to do business in ( he might need a trader on the floor at each exchange or contract with a foreign broker for a cut of the commission ) .
Bank have their own Capital , Deposits from Depositors and lend money to Borrowers . In a liquidity problem , it is typically that either the Borrowers are taking time to repay [ they are not yet defaulters ] or there is more pressure on withdrawals from Depositors or there is a short term of mismatch between deposits and loans ... in all these valid scenarios FED does lend out the banks to met these short terms obligations . Banks fail when the losses are actually booked in comparison to the overall Capital or loss would materialize ... for example the Mortgage crisis in US meant that quite a few Banks the actual loss had materialized or would have any ways materialized . In such situations the short term leading does not help and they would burn it out anyways as the borrowers are not paying back any time soon ...
VAT can be loosely compared to the US sales tax . It is added to every purchase , service , and more or less everything that requires payment . But since you 'll probably be only shopping - consider it as " something like a sales tax " . In Europe , prices are always quoted with the VAT already included . The VAT itself can be up to 25 % in some places , so its good to know that you can get some of it back , when you leave with your purchase . For some ( larger ) purchases , you get the VAT back at the airport . It has to be over a certain amount per each receipt , and the store has to fill out a special VAT return form for you . Make sure , if you 're paying more than say 50-100 EUR in a single transaction , to ask the seller for that form . Sellers that provide this form have stickers showing " Tax Free Shopping " or " Vat Refund for Tourists " . Here 's an example of how to ask for the refund : <URL> <URL> Everywhere else its similar .
According to the state of New York , you may be eligible for unemployment . <URL> Unless excluded by law , all services an employee performs for a liable employer is covered . This applies whether it is : Part-time Full-time Temporary Seasonal Casual Employees may perform services : On or off the employer 's premises In their own homes But what 's " excluded by law " ? Excluded employment : The services of certain employees are not covered under the Unemployment Insurance ( UI ) Law . Their earnings are not subject to contribution . They are not entitled to UI benefits based on such services . You 'll need to view the full list to see if you are supposed to be covered or excluded , based upon the sector of your employment . But generally , most people are covered . Note that , at least in the state of New York , even part time , tempory , or seasonal/casual workers are covered by unemployment . If you are not clearly excluded , then it is absolutely likely to be worth your time to file for unemployment , you can be done online at <URL> . Note that you are expected to do this " promptly " ( ideally in the first week you are informed you are laid off ) , and there is a minimum week " waiting period " before you receive any money at all . However , so long as you are honest and provide the paperwork they request , the worst they can do is tell you that you are n't eligible , and you 've just lost a little time . In closing , please remember that unemployment benefits are insurance - if you are eligible both you and your employer have been paying money into the system . This is not some kind of welfare or charity - it is insurance you have been paying into for years ( if you have been - otherwise you are n't eligible at all ) , and you should not hesitate to make a claim when you are able to do so . Oh , and to answer your final question - yes , if you get a new job or are hired back you will just notify the unemployment service and they will discontinue paying you based on their timing policy ( it might be after your first day of new work , or some period after that - laws vary , so check with the Department of Labor to be sure so you can plan your finances accordingly ) . Good luck on the application and your job hunt !
In Minnesota , based on the <URL> , I believe that anything that is deductible for federal income taxes is deductible for the Minnesota State income tax . What is federal taxable income ( FTI ) ? Federal taxable income is the tax base used to calculate federal income tax liability . It is also the starting point for calculating Minnesota taxable income , the tax base used to calculate Minnesota income tax liability . Federal taxable income equals federal adjusted gross income ( FAGI ) after deductions and exemptions . Specifically , these are excluded ( bold added by myself ) : What kinds of income are excluded from FAGI ? FAGI excludes : deductible IRA , SEP , and SIMPLE contributions ; nontaxable employee fringe benefits ; student loan interest payments ; Health Savings Account contributions and investment income ; moving expenses ; one-half of self-employment tax ; health insurance premiums ( for self-employed taxpayers only ) ; penalty on early withdrawal of savings ; alimony paid by the taxpayer ; for tax year 2008 only , the first $ 500 of property taxes paid by standard deduction filers ( $ 1,000 for married joint filers ) ; and , through tax year 2009 , $ 250 of teacher classroom expenses and $ 4,000 of tuition expenses for higher education . FAGI does not exclude child support paid by the taxpayer . And finally the key statements : What itemized deductions are allowed ? Itemized deductions are allowed for the following : Payments of state and local property taxes and income taxes Mortgage interest Charitable contributions Medical expenses in excess of 7.5 percent of income Casualty and theft losses in excess of 10 percent of income Job expenses and miscellaneous expenses ( most only allowed in excess of 2 percent of income ) Obviously this is n't foolproof , as tax law always has " exceptions " but this is the best answer I 've found so far .
IANAL ( and nor am I an accountant ) , so I ca n't give a definitive answer as to legality , but AFAIK , what you propose is legal . But what 's the benefit ? Avoiding corporation tax ? It 's simplistic -- and costly -- to think in terms like that . You need to run the numbers for different scenarios , and make a plan . You can end up ahead of the game precisely by choosing to pay some corporate tax each year . Really ! Read on . One of the many reasons that self-employed Canadians sometimes opt for a corporate structure over being a sole proprietor is to be able to not pay themselves everything the company earns each year . This is especially important when a business has some really good years , and others , meh . Using the corporation to retain earnings can be more tax effective . Example : Imagine your corporation earns , net of accounting &amp; other non-tax costs except for your draws , $ 120,000 / year for 5 years , and $ 0 in year 6 . Assume the business is your only source of income for those 6 years . Would you rather : Pay yourself the entire $ 120,000 / yr in years 1-5 , then $ 0 in year 6 ( living off personal savings you hopefully accumulated earlier ) , subjecting the $ 120,000 / yr to personal income tax only , leaving nothing in the corporation to be taxed ? Very roughly speaking , assuming tax rates &amp; brackets are level from year to year , and using <URL> calculator ( which simplifies certain things ) , then in Ontario , then you 'd net ~ $ 84,878 / yr for years 1-5 , and $ 0 in year 6 . Overall , you realized $ 424,390 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600,000 was 29.26 % . vs. Pay yourself only $ 100,000 / yr in years 1-5 , leaving $ 20,000 / yr subject to corporation tax . Assuming a 15.5 % combined federal/provincial corporate tax rate ( includes the <URL> ) , then the corp. is left with $ 16,900 / yr to add to retained earnings in years 1-5 . In year 6 , the corp. has $ 84,500 in retained earnings to be distributed to you , the sole owner , as a dividend ( of the non-eligible kind . ) Again , very roughly speaking , you 'd personally net $ 73,560 / yr in years 1-5 , and then on the $ 84,500 dividend in year 6 , you 'd net $ 73,658 . Overall , you realized $ 441,458 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600K was 26.42 % . i.e. Scenario 2 , which spreads the income out over the six years , saved 2.84 % in tax , or $ 14,400 . Smoothing out your income is also a prudent thing to do . Would you rather find yourself in year 6 , having no clients and no revenue , with nothing left to draw on ? Or would you rather the company had saved money from the good years to pay you in the lean one ?
On a summary level , there are three conceptual ways of clearing money electronically . Immediate clearing , where banks ( often , but not necessarily ) with support of the supervisory entities , send immediate drawing rights against their own cash reserves , and dedicate this right to the account of the receiving customer . This is rather expensive , as it limits the banks ability to use their cash reserves for their own banking operations ( crediting etc ) . This is often the only way to wire significant ( in comparison to the bank size ) amounts of money . Internal clearing , where the money actually never leaves the bank - it 's just moved between accounts of two different customers of the same bank . It 's usually free , as the bank is still free to use your money to do it 's banking , and it 's usually immediate since nothing actually needs to happen besides a change in the banks entries . Batch clearing , where banks submit outstanding requests against each other , and calculate the net settlement . Basically , when you from bank A wire money to me in bank B , there is a high chance that a similar amount of money is wired between two other users it the opposite direction . After a bit of accounting the net imbalance is computed ( and often drawn via immediate clearing ) but the bulk of the money actually never leaves any of the banks , it just is reassigned between each banks customers as per agreed books . There are also additional ways where companies decide to open accounts in each of the banks and provide some sort of immediate clearing backed by the operators cash reserves rather than the banks . . and so on . . How does it happen in Indonesia ? I have no idea , but I think a good overview of how it happens around the world is a publication by a partner entity of ours ; <URL> If you are really curious , I 'd research under what legal form does Paypal Indonesia operate ( it should be somewhere in the archives ) and figure out what other wiring options are available .
Maryland , Virginia , and Washington DC have a reciprocity agreement . You fill out all your taxes based on where you live not where you work . I have worked for a company headquartered in Maryland , but in the DC office , while living in Virginia . The only tax form was for Virginia . The state W-4 was for Virginia . If you had your employer send your state income tax withholding to the wrong state , you will have to file a form with that state to get that money back . I was never in the situation where I had rental income in one state while living in the other , so I cant answer how that would change things .
You 're not subject to the US tax laws , and since the income is not US-sourced , it is not subject to withholding . Your employer does n't need any form , but if they insist - you can provide them a W8-BEN to certify your non-resident status . Keep in mind that if you do come to the US , the money you earn while in the US is US-sourced and subject to the US taxes and withholding , even if you 're non-resident .
Donations , particularly those in the context of you providing a free service ( software , libraries , etc. ) are a notable grey area in tax code . Simply naming a button " Donate " does n't necessarily classify the money transfer as a " gift " . The IRS can decide that it 's money you 're being paid to continue your excellent work/service , making it taxable income ( unless you 're a registered non-profit organization ) . In the instance of Patreon , and many other crowd-funding services , you 're providing a certain level of " service " for each tier of donations ( such as early access or something , I 'm not sure what you 're offering ) , which means they 're receiving consideration for their donations , which most likely makes it fall into taxable income ( again , unless you 're a registered non-profit organization ) . State tax law is even more convoluted , and you should consult your tax professional for clarification on your specific situation .
end question
start question
What are advantages & disadvantages of using a Peer-to-Peer lending site or network ?
Main advantages you are closer to your lenders , not some impersonal bank you are more likely to get a favorable rate more flexible terms Main disadvantages You are closer to your lenders ( see advantages ) , it is not as bad as borrowing money from your friends or relatives , but the personal factor can come into play ( even though p2p lending sites serve as a bit of buffer ) . You need to be aware on how the lending sites get paid and how much . Obviously you should not have to pay anything in advance to originate a loan ( those are generally scams ) . Finally a very subjective opinion , but I think in terms of financial returns p2p lending is not that great for lenders , but good for borrowers , precisely , because individual lenders are not that great at determining credit risk of borrowers . In any case it should not concern you too much , as long as you can get your loan .
Are you allowed to have two personal current accounts with a debit card attached to each one ? Yes , you may have as many current accounts you want , but you should ask why should I have more than one . It is cumbersome and time consuming to keep track of ongoing incoming credits and outgoing debits . Open to bank fraud too , if you are n't careful . If yes , can a sole trader in the UK use the second personal account for business transactions ? Yes , but no payments to the business . At the end of the year you file you P11D , even if you have a business bank account . You would need to justify the expenses by keeping the bills and stuff . As it will be a personal account , you have to little more careful , not to mix personal and business expenses . If you are allowed to use a second personal account for business transactions , then why would someone choose to open a business bank account , where you have to pay ? What are the benefits ? First of all no company will pay into you personal account , for any transactions , they need to pay you . They will only pay to an account registered with the business , with whom they are dealing with . Benefits are you have your business expenses sorted out in one account and personal expenses in other . Pure business expenses comes out of the business account , rather than from your personal purse , keeps the accounts smooth . No need to sort out expenses at the end of each quarter or at the end of each month .
A quick online search for " disadvantages of defence housing australia investment properties " turns up a <URL> <URL> that list a few possible disadvantages . I ca n't vouch for these personally because I 'm not familiar with the Australian rental market , but they may all be things to keep in mind . I quote verbatim where indicated . Defence housing tends to be priced 5 % to 10 % above the prevailing market price for suburbs in the same area . According to <URL> , the DHA admits that this is true , but states that it 's a fair price to pay for the additional security of the covenant . You 'll have to decide if the additional rent security is worth the higher price ( assuming these articles are accurate ) . Higher prices translate to lower rental yields , even before management fees . Most of the housing is located near ADF bases , which are usually low-growth or declining areas . This limits potential capital gains on the sale of the property . High management fees . DHA charges 16.5 % of gross rental income for houses ( or 13 % for units and townhouses ) , which is double the private sector average . As with any fees , these greatly reduce the return . " DHA restricts the sale of properties if a lease is still in place . The property must be sold with all lease conditions in place , which eliminates owner occupiers as buyers . Your only potential buyers are investors who think DHA properties are a good bet . " " DHA sets a non-negotiable sale price to the investor . " " DHA does review rents each year but is notoriously tough on paying increases . Owners end up with properties which are over-priced and under-rented in often ordinary locations - the essence of a bad property investment . " Finally , the <URL> states that " Rent may be subject to abatement in limited circumstances . " A quick glance does n't show me where to find any of these circumstances , but if you 're interested in pursuing such a property , it 's worth your while to look into what these circumstances might be ( and if you see it on their site , let me know , because I 'm curious ) .
This is a gross simplification as there are a few different ways to do this . The principle overall is the same though . To short a stock , you borrow X shares from a third party and sell them at the current price . You now owe the lender X shares but have the proceeds from the sale . If the share price falls you can buy back those shares at the new lower price , return them to the lender and pocket the difference . The risk comes when the share price goes the other way , you now owe the lender the new value of the shares , so have to find some way to cover the difference . This happened a <URL> when Porsche made a fortune buying shares in Volkswagen from short sellers , and the price unexpectedly rose .
If there is no match and you are disciplined enough to contribute without it coming directly out of your paycheck , dump the 401K . The reason : Most 401K plans have huge hidden fees built into the investment prices . You wo n't see them directly , but 3 % is not uncommon . 3 % is a horrible drag on your investment performance . Get an IRA or Roth IRA and pick something with low fees . Bonus : You will have a lot more investment choices !
Is there something else I need to be thinking about here ? I 'm assuming that I will not have to pay capital gains tax on the profit from the sale because I 'm putting it into another investment property . Is this correct ? No . You 're talking about <URL> . It would be correct if you would be buying a new , similar , investment property ( you 'd be deferring the tax , not " not paying " it ) . But in this case that is not what you 're doing . You 'll have to pay the capital gains tax on the profit . For the 1031 exchange the new property has to be acquired with relation to the disposition of the old property , and within the certain period of time ( 180 days , if I remember correctly ) . Had it been your primary residence for more than 2 years in the last 5 , you might have been able to use <URL> , in which case you would not be paying tax on the excluded gains ( which is way better than deferring ... ) . Since you updated the question saying you moved out in 2007 , its not relevant for you anymore . Adding to @mhoran_psprep 's point : since it has been a rental for the last several years , you will also have a " depreciation recapture " - a situation where the IRS will tax a deduction you made ( or could have made ) for depreciation of your property . Since you can not depreciate your primary residence - the recapture can not be excluded as part of the primary residence exclusion , so on this part you will have to pay taxes . Note that this is not capital gain , and the recapture rates are different ( 25 % if I remember correctly ) . You should discuss it with your tax adviser - a EA or a CPA licensed in your state .
A lot of Americans have used Swiss bank accounts to avoid paying taxes . However recently several large Swiss banks have started disclosing the details on some of their customers to the IRS . There is n't much security in Swiss banking at this point in time .
Taking out your equity when refinancing means that you take out a new loan for the full value of your house ( perhaps less 20 % as a down payment on the new mortgage , otherwise you 'll be paying insurance ) , pay off your old lender , and keep the rest for yourself . The result is much the same as using as a HELOC or home equity loan ( or a second mortgage ) , except it 's all rolled into a single new mortgage . The advantage is that the interest rate on a first mortgage is going to be lower than on HELOC or equivalent , and the equity requirements may be lower ( e.g. a HELOC may only let you borrow against the amount of equity that exceeds 25 % or 30 % , while a new mortgage will require you only to have 20 % equity ) . This is especially attractive to those whose homes have appreciated significantly since they bought them , especially if they have a lot of high-interest debt ( e.g. credit cards ) they want to pay off . Of course , rolling credit card debt into a 30-year mortgage is n't actually paying it off , but the monthly payments will be a lot lower , and if you 're lucky and your home appreciates further , you can pay it off fully when you sell the property and still have paid a lot less interest . The downside is that you have turned unsecured debt into secured debt , which puts your home at risk if you find yourself unable to pay . In your case , you do n't yet have even 20 % equity in your home , so I would n't recommend this . :-) Equity is simply the difference between the amount you still owe on your home and the amount you 'd get if you were to sell it . Until you do sell it , this amount is tentative , based on the original purchase price and , perhaps , an intervening appraisal that shows that the property has appreciated . That is really all that it is and there 's nothing magic about it , except that since you own your home , you have equity in it , while as a renter , you would not . It used to be ( decades ago , when you needed 20 % down to get a mortgage ) that selling was the only time you 'd be able to do anything with the equity in your home . Now you can " take it out " as described above ( or borrow against it ) thanks to various financial products . It is sometimes tempting to consider equity roughly equivalent to " profit . " But some of it is your own money , contributed through the down payment , your monthly principal payment , and improvements you have made -- so " cashing out " is n't all profit , it 's partly just you getting your own money back . And there are many additional expenses involved in owning a home , such as interest , property taxes , maintenance , utilities , and various fees , not to mention the commissions when you buy or sell , which the equity calculation does n't consider . Increasing equity reflects that you own a desirable property in a desirable location , that you have maintained and maybe even improved it , that you are financially responsible ( i.e. , paying your mortgage , taxes , etc. ) , and that your financial interests are aligned with your neighbors . All those things feel pretty good , and they should . Otherwise , it is just a number that the banks will sometimes let you borrow against . :-)
There are two levels to consider here : Small amounts ( To me , this means $ 20-30 ) - Just do it , if they pay you back , everything is fine . If they do n't , it 's not going to kill your friendship . In the latter case , do n't harp on them about it just let it slide and do n't loan them such money again Larger amounts - In general , do n't loan them money . If you can afford to lose the money just give it to them as a gift . I usually give them the money saying something like " If you need this money , just take it , if you want to pay me back , great . If not , that 's okay too " . If you are n't prepared to say that , loaning them money is probably not a good plan . That said , before loaning/giving anyone money ask yourself if it is good for them . If they have problems managing their money , or holding down a job , and you give them money , they are just going to come back for more later . In this type of situation , you should n't give/loan them money . But on the other hand , if a friend or family member has hit a rough patch and you know they are the kind of person that will be on their feet again soon , and you have nothing to lose , give them the money .
I 'm not a financial guy . That being said , I think you can make a couple of common sense points here : The reason this site exists is because in some of these countries there just is n't an established way to create credit history . Partly because the infrastructure is risky to build . It may also be due to the corruption within a country . The really cool part about Kiva and these other lending tools might be that they can be an end run around those governments and are a 21st century approach to building the infrastructure for credit worthiness . That being said , you probably already realize , in this situation - you 're the bank - and you really ought to be acting somewhat like a bank : What factors can I look at in each situation to evaluate whether or not this loan will be paid back ? What unknown factors am I looking at ? Are they likely to be able to get their money back to the website in question ? I 'm also curious whether or not the good loans and opportunities are snatched up so quickly that all you are left with is the really high risk stuff . Anyway that 's my non-expert 0.02 .
The cost of living is quite high in New York City . It has the highest CPI ( Consumer Price Index ) of any city in the U.S. Salaries also tend to be highest in NYC . Just about any bicycle lock sold in the U.S. has an exception in its warranty for NYC . It is the most populous American city . So , why do people deal with all the hassles of living here ? Because , it is a hotbed of activity . I venture that the advantages are basically the same in Zurich : Job opportunities Business opportunities Lifestyle options
Except in areas where there is a specific law against it , symbols or other marks may be used as a signature . There is no added " security " , however . I would think in most cases a symbol is much easier to duplicate than a handwritten name . In situations where the primary purpose of the signature is contractual , e.g. signing a will , marks are more likely to be allowed . You ca n't get out of a contract by claiming you did n't write your signature correctly . Where the primary purpose is verification of identity , such as signing your passport , your name is most often required .
This is an excellent question . The category of fixed income investments generally includes all kinds of bonds and preferred shares and other instruments that pay a fixed rate of return and are expected to return your principal by some maturity date . The spectrum of fixed-income investing is wide . For the fixed income component of a personal investment portfolio , I 'd look to investing in high quality , short-term government bonds or index funds and ETFs composed of such . Consider also holding some to protect against inflation -- such as <URL> ( TIPS ) in the U.S. , or <URL> ( RRBs ) in Canada . Corporate bonds , junk bonds , long term bonds , strip bonds , convertible bonds or debentures , and preferred shares ought to be avoided by investors who do not understand well the make-up and risks of such investments . Also , structured products like <URL> ( collateralized debt obligations ) , <URL> ( asset-backed commercial paper ) , <URL> ( mortgage-backed securities ) , etc. should be avoided . While originally marketed as high-quality fixed income investments , many structured products blew up during the credit crisis and left investors with a capital loss on their supposed " safe " investment . On the subject of CDs / certificates of deposit ( or GICs / guaranteed investment certificates in Canada ) : Yes , they can be considered fixed income investments , in that they yield a fixed rate of return and are expected to return one 's principal at maturity . However , if a fixed income investment 's maturity is short ( e.g. less than one year ) , and the quality high ( e.g. government paper or insured deposits ) , and it can be liquidated before maturity if desired ( at slight penalty ) , then such a fixed income investment could instead be considered part of the cash or cash equivalents component in a portfolio , since there is little risk of significant loss of principal due to interest rate fluctuations , and the money is accessible if necessary . Whereas , if a CD ca n't be sold before maturity , I would personally consider it fixed income yet not a cash equivalent until maturity . Additional Resources : <URL> <URL>
I am wondering weather it is worth it ( how taxation works in this scenario ect . ) or not and legally possible to do so ? Whether it is worth it or not is up to you . There 's nothing illegal in this , unless of course there 's a legal issue in the foreign country . The US does n't care . Re taxes - it is a bit trickier . If your lender does not provide you with form 1098 , you 'll have to report the lender 's name , address and SSN/ITIN on your tax return in order to claim a deduction . The IRS will then expect the lender to report that interest as income . This is US-sourced income and is taxed in the US despite the fact that the lender is non-resident . See <URL> for more info . If the lender does n't report the income and does n't pay the taxes - your deduction may be denied as well for double-dipping . It is easier if this is an investment . Then the deduction is not going to Schedule A , but rather as an expense to Schedule E . The IRS may still require matching , but you wo n't need to report the SSN/ITIN - just have the expense properly documented . Obviously , the best when it comes to legal issues , is to talk to an attorney licensed in the State in question . Similarly with tax questions - you should talk to a EA/CPA licensed in that State . I 'm neither .
Obviously you know your own circumstances , but it would be considered normal for a company to pay relocation expenses for someone they hire . Unless they have explicitly said no already you should at least ask . Even if they have said no , they might make you a loan to cover your expenses , at a low or even zero interest rate , to be paid back out of your salary . If they absolutely say no again , then go with the other options mentioned here .
Are you looking for this <URL> ? Or <URL> WFC is near the bottom of the BH portfolio but it seems to be a rather large investment for both .
Credit Cards There are quite a few statistics on this subject . <URL> - This might be a good starting point . The Federal Reserve reports that credit cards are used more than 20 billion times a year in the U.S. , with the total value of these transactions at about $ 1.9 trillion . Based on the number of transactions and the number of credit card holders , the average card holder uses a credit card 119 times a year , for transactions averaging $ 88 apiece . This comes to an average annual total of about $ 10,500 in credit card purchases . <URL> CardWeb reported that in the last year , the average size of credit card transaction tops $ 100 for the first time . 2003 's average of $ 101.64 is 1.9 % higher than last year 's $ 99.76 and represents 16 % increase in 10 years . <URL> At the end of 2009 the average purchase made with Visa or MasterCard Credit Cards was $ 82.56 , a number lower than previous years , where the average was slightly over $ 100 . You can order more recent reports on this figure from CardData . The indexcreditcards.com article might have some useful strategies for calculating these statistics , like combining the Federal Reserve data ( for example , from <URL> ) with Census and industry estimates . That 's probably the best place to start for recent data that should n't cost anything ( or if it does , the cost should n't be prohibitive ) . <URL> looks like it compiles the information you need too , but according to their site , subscriptions start at $ 1,495.00 . If you need this data for research purposes , citing a website is n't sufficient , but assuming you describe how to came up with your statistics , combining data sets in the way mentioned above should work . Debit Cards For similar information relating to debit cards , the <URL> also has information about that , since they work with payment processing networks . There were approximately 46.7 billion debit card transactions in 2011 , with a value of more than $ 1.8 trillion . This was a 24 percent increase from the number of transactions in 2009 ( 37.6 billion ) and a 27 percent increase from the value of transactions in 2009 ( $ 1.4 trillion ) . Signature debit transactions represented about 63 percent of transaction volume and 61 percent of transaction value in 2011 ; the remainder were PIN debit transactions . mainstreet.com also cites <URL> which finds that " the average debit card transaction amount in 2010 was $ 71 . " This is n't a random sample because it only represents data on mint.com users . Intuitively , I can think of reasons for why users of mint.com would spend either more or less than the population as a whole , but I 'm not sure which is true . Keep in mind , though , that debit card transactions <URL> as Electronic Fund Transfers , which could complicate the picture . I have n't researched payment processing networks extensively , so I ca n't make a statement on that one way or another .
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
The Motley Fool 's How to Invest <URL> Benjamin Graham 's The Intelligent Investor <URL> If you like The Intelligent Investor then try Benjamin 's <URL> . But that one is not a beginner book .
To add to @bstpierre 's answer , you should automate all your loans except for the one with the highest interest rate . Leave that one manual , and pay the most you can afford each month , to pay it off as quickly as possible . Once you finish that loan , move to the next highest interest rate . Ultimately , this wo n't be quite as convenient as just having 1 loan . The differences are : You need to set up all the automatic payments . This is probably comparable to in complexity of consolidating your loans . Each time you finish one loan , you need to turn off an automatic payment , and start doing the next loan manually . If you organize yourself well initially , you 'll know exactly what order to do the loans in , so this should n't take too long . However , unless your consolidated loan has the same interest rate of your cheapest current loan , you will likely save money over-all by using this method .
end question
start question
Can I retroactively get the tax assesment on my house adjusted and get a refund on previously paid taxes ?
Each tax year a local jurisdiction has a time window where homeowner can appeal their assessment . The law dictates the timing of the window , and how to appeal . Assuming that you are still in that window you could appeal . If you are outside that window , your ability is very limited and for all practical purposes is zero . Your local government website , or the copy of your tax bill will tell you how to appeal . The new homeowners would be able to appeal after the next assessment . The sale price of the home is not related to the assessed value . You have to show that the government made a mistake ( number of bedrooms , size of garage , lot size , age of house ... ) or that the other houses that were used by the government to make the assessment were not good matches ( too far away , different school , local environment ... ) . Many governments look at how the prices are changing to determine how to adjust the value next year , with the understanding that in a rapidly changing market the moment just prior to the next assessment will show the greatest mismatch between the direction of prices and assessed value .
My friend and tax-crush Kay Bell wrote an article that addressed this very well at <URL> . ( The short answer is yes , you most likely can . Read the article for full details . )
No not deductible . But - If you work more than one job , you run the risk of having too much SS withheld . Each employer does n't know what the others pays you . Tax time reconciles this . And much thanks to Dilip for the following clarification - Not only does each employer not know what the others pays you , but even if you tell him , he will not care . He is required to withhold Social Security tax on the wages he pays you ( and send in an equal amount as his contribution ) regardless of what anyone else pays you . If the sum of your taxable wages from all employers exceed the maximum wages subject to Social Security , the excess withholding is credited towards the income tax due ( and thus reduces the amount to be paid or increases the refund you are owed ) but the employer 's ( excess ) contribution that he sent in is not returned to him ... Also , there is no such things as excess Medicare tax having been withheld because there is no maximum wage beyond which Medicare tax does not apply .
The answer is no . A superannuation fund will have it 's own tax return , and any net loses during a financial year will be carried forward to offset superannuation gains in future income years . If you have a SMSF , then the SMSF will have to complete and lodge its own tax return .
In the US you are not required to have a corporation to use business expenses to offset your income . The technical term you need is " deducting business expenses " , and in matters of taxes it 's usually best to go straight to the horse 's mouth : <URL> Deducting Business Expenses Business expenses are the cost of carrying on a trade or business . These expenses are usually deductible if the business operates to make a profit . What Can I Deduct ? Cost of Goods Sold , Capital Expenses , Personal versus Business Expenses , Business Use of Your Home , Business Use of Your Car , Other Types of Business Expenses None of this requires any special incorporation or tax arrangements , and are a normal part of operating a business . However , there is a bit of a problem with your scenario . You said you " invested " into a business , but you mentioned buying specific things for the business which is not generally how one accounts for investment . If you are not an owner/operator of the business , then the scenario is not so straight-forward , as you ca n't simply claim someone else 's business expenses as your own because you invested in it . Investments are taxed differently than expenses , and based upon your word choices I 'm concerned that you could be getting yourself into a bit of a pickle . I would strongly advise you to speak with a professional , such as a Certified Public Accountant ( CPA ) , to go over your current arrangement and advise you on how you should be structuring your ongoing investment into this shared business . If you are investing you should be receiving equity to reflect your ownership ( or stock in the company , etc ) , and investments of this sort generally can not be deducted as an expense on your taxes - it 's just an investment , the same as buying stock or CDs . If you are just buying things for someone else 's benefit , it 's possible that this could be looked upon as a personal gift , and you may be in a precarious legal position as well ( where the money is , indeed , just a gift ) . And gifts of this sort are n't deductible , either . Depending on how this is all structured , it 's possible that you should both consider a different form of legal organization , such as a formal corporation or at least an official business partnership . A CPA and an appropriate business attorney should be able to advise you for a nominal ( few hundred dollars , at most ) fee . If a new legal structure is advisable , you can potentially do the work yourself for a few hundred dollars , or pay to have it done ( especially if the situation is more complex ) for a few hundred to a few thousand . That 's a lot less than you 'd be on the hook for if this business is being accounted for improperly , or if either of your tax returns are being reported improperly !
Books would be considered Personal-Use Property according to Canada 's income tax laws . The most detailed IT I was able to find is <URL> , which says : GAINS AND LOSSES 3 &#46; A gain on the disposition of personal-use property is normally a capital gain within the meaning of paragraph 39 ( 1 ) ( a ) . Where the property is a principal residence , the gain > is computed under paragraph 40 ( 2 ) ( b ) or ( c ) . 4 &#46; Under subparagraph 40 ( 2 ) ( g ) ( iii ) , a loss on a disposition of personal-use property , other than listed personal property , is deemed to be nil . [ ... ] This part of the bulletin indicates that a gain might be considered a capital gain - not income . However , you do n't get to book a loss as a capital loss . This is the first hint that your book sale - which is actually an exempt capital loss - should n't go on your tax return unless it 's one of the " listed " items : LISTED PERSONAL PROPERTY 7 &#46; Listed personal property is defined in paragraph 54 ( e ) to mean personal-use property that is all or any portion of , or any interest in or right to , any ( a ) print , etching , drawing , painting , sculpture , or other similar work of art , ( b ) jewellery , ( c ) rare folio , rare manuscript , or rare book , ( d ) stamp , or ( e ) coin . So unless you 're selling rare books , the disposition ( sale ) of them is essentially exempt as income , regardless of whether you sold it at a profit or at a loss . If it is rare , then you might be able to consider it a capital loss , which does n't help you much unless you had other capital gains , but you can carry over capital losses to future years . There 's also a newer IT related to hobbies and " collecting " items , <URL> . This one says : 11 &#46; In order for any activity or pursuit to be regarded as a source of income , there must be a reasonable expectation of profit . Where such an expectation does not exist ( as is the case with most hobbies ) , neither amounts received nor expenses incurred are included in the income computation for tax purposes and any excess of expenses over receipts is a personal or living expense , the deduction of which is denied by paragraph 18 ( 1 ) ( h ) . On the other hand , if the hobby or pastime results in receipts of revenue in excess of expenses , that fact is a strong indication that the hobby is a venture with an expectation of profit ; if so , the net income may be taxable as income from a business . The current version of IT-504 , Visual Artists and Writers , discusses the concept of " a reasonable expectation of profit " in greater detail . Where a hobby consists of collecting personal-use property or listed personal property , dispositions should be accounted for as described in the current version of IT-332 , Personal-Use Property . ( emphasis mine ) In other words , if it 's not the type of thing where you 'd make a tax deduction when you bought it in the first place , then you clearly do n't need to report it as income when you sell it . Just to be absolutely clear here : The fact that you are selling them at a loss is not actually what 's important here . What 's important is that , if the books are n't collectibles , then you would have had no expectation of profit . If you did have that expectation then you could have made a tax deduction when you first purchased them . So in this case , it is probably not necessary for you to report the income ; however , for the benefit of other readers , in some cases you might need to report it under " other income " or book it as a capital gain/loss , depending on what those personal items are and whether or not you made a net profit .
Each tax year a local jurisdiction has a time window where homeowner can appeal their assessment . The law dictates the timing of the window , and how to appeal . Assuming that you are still in that window you could appeal . If you are outside that window , your ability is very limited and for all practical purposes is zero . Your local government website , or the copy of your tax bill will tell you how to appeal . The new homeowners would be able to appeal after the next assessment . The sale price of the home is not related to the assessed value . You have to show that the government made a mistake ( number of bedrooms , size of garage , lot size , age of house ... ) or that the other houses that were used by the government to make the assessment were not good matches ( too far away , different school , local environment ... ) . Many governments look at how the prices are changing to determine how to adjust the value next year , with the understanding that in a rapidly changing market the moment just prior to the next assessment will show the greatest mismatch between the direction of prices and assessed value .
It is typically very easy to roll a 401 ( k ) into an IRA . Companies that provide IRA 's are very experienced with it , and I would expect that they will take your calls from overseas . You will likely be able to do it over the internet without using a phone at all . Just open an IRA with any brokerage company ( Scottrade , Vanguard , Fidelity , Schwab , Ameritrade , etc. ) and follow instructions to roll your 401 ( k ) into it . Most likely they will need your signature , but usually a scan of a form you have filled out will do . Be sure to have information on your 401 ( k ) provider , including your account number there , on hand . These companies are all very reputable and this is not a difficult transaction . There 's really no downside to rolling into an IRA . 401 ( k ) plans usually have more limited options and/or worse fee structures and are frequently harder to work with , as you have observed .
They will credit your account and it will be applied to future purchases . If the credit card is not used for several months , they will send you a check or transfer it to your bank account . Some people on this site have actually considered sending money to the credit card company in advance , so that the amount that can be charged is temporarily inflated . Keep in mind they will eventually refund the money . Plus you will not earn interest on the refund .
A reason to get an accountant is to avoid penalties for possible mistakes . That is , if you make a mistake , the IRS can impose penalties on you for negligence . If the professional makes the SAME mistake , the burden of proof for " negligence " shifts to the IRS , which probably means that you 'll pay more taxes and interest , but NO penalties ; hiring an accountant is prima facie evidence of NOT being negligent . I would get an accountant since this the first time for you in the present situation , when mistakes are most likely . If you feel that s/he did the same for you that you would have done for yourself , then you might go back to doing your own taxes in later years .
The best way to estimate taxes is <URL> by Intuit . Although it files with TurboTax , which does not support F1 tax filing , you may want to enter your details just to see how much you could expect as a return -- just do n't file your taxes with it .
I would not be concerned about the impact to your credit rating . You already have an <URL> , and the temporary change to your utilization will have minimal impact to your score . If you really need to make this $ 2500 purchase and you have the money in the bank to pay for it , I would not recommend borrowing this money . Only put it on the credit card if you plan on paying it off in full without paying interest . Let me ask you this : Why do you want to keep this $ 2500 in the bank ? It certainly is n't earning you anything significant . My guess is that you 'd like to keep it there for an emergency . Well , is this $ 2500 purchase an emergency ? If it is necessary , then spend the money . If not , then save up the money until you have enough to make the purchase . It does n't make sense to keep money for an emergency in the bank , but then when one comes up , to leave the money in the bank and pay interest on your emergency purchase . If you make this emergency purchase and another emergency comes up , you can always ( if necessary ) borrow the money at that time . It does n't make sense to borrow money before you need it . That having been said , I would encourage you to build up your emergency fund so that you have enough money in there to handle things like this without completely depleting your savings account . 3 to 6 months of expenses is the general recommendation for your emergency fund . Then if something unplanned comes up , you 'll have the money in the bank without having to borrow and pay interest .
Yes , you can get cash for the accident . I was in exactly the same scenario and got an insurance payout for a repair I did not want to make . The risk you are taking is that there is more damage than readily apparent . For example , if you let the insurance company repair the car , this is a typical scenario : Initial estimate is $ 1000 Insurance pays $ 1000 Take car to get it fixed . Discover $ 500 more damage Insurance company will now cover that additional $ 500 . Decide based on the damage and estimates if it 's worth taking the risk of having damage missing from the estimate . In my case it was worth the risk .
<URL> and <URL> allow shipping packages with COD ( Collect on Delivery ) option . You tell them how much to collect , and they will hold the package and attempt to collect it from the receiver and then remit to you . If they can not collect - they 'll return the package to you . In the ( post - ) Soviet Union republics , the local post offices provide ( d ) similar services . If you 're shipping from/to these areas - check with the postal service if they have it . However , that may be only limited to the postage costs ( I believe that 's the case with the USPS ) .
Yes , you can have a buy-to-let mortgage on a rental property at the same time as a residential mortgage on your own property . A lot of landlords do this . I would n't go expecting your rental property to contribute much to paying off your residential mortgage . Most of it will go on the various costs and fees of renting out a property ( not least the buy-to-let mortgage ! ) . The main financial benefit in the UK of owning a rental property with a substantial mortgage on it is that the value of the property goes up ( in a rising market , which it normally seems to be ) .
For your mortgage to be tax deductible there 's no requirement on who the lender should be . The requirement is that the mortgage is secured by your primary residence and is used to buy or improve such . If you can show the documentation for the loan and the actual interest paid , and if you can show that the proceeds were used to buy and/or improve your primary residence - you should be able to claim the interest paid as deduction on Schedule A. See <URL> . Keep in mind , that in order for your interest to be deductible , the receiver ( lender ) must also properly document and declare it on their own tax return . If they evade taxes on the interest , your own deduction may be disallowed . To ensure that your lender does in fact report everything properly , you should ask for form 1098 . Pay attention : if your lender does n't provide you with the form 1098 - your interest goes on a different line of schedule A ( line 11 and not line 10 ) , and details about the lender may be required .
<URL> : Include taxes ( state , local , or foreign ) paid on real estate you own that was not used for business . ... If you want to make a business out of her property and be her agent in the management , you might be able to work with an accountant on this , but it wo n't be a valid personal deduction .
To clarify . APY will always be an annual number . To calculate your APY you use the formulas below with your APR , the applicable compounding frequency , and duration of an entire year . The more frequent the compounding occurs the greater your yield relative to your rate . When you have a maturity period less than a year , the APY is still calculated based on holding for a full year . Assuming a 0.4 % APR , you will receive 0.4 % for the duration of the CD . Generally bank CDs are compounded daily which will help out a bit . You can roughly calculate your return by ( assuming a $ 1,000 deposit and a 3 month duration ) : On such a short time frame the effects of compounding will be negligible . And the published APY can be largely ignored as you will not be holding the CD for a year , unless you buy another three month CD at the same rate after maturity .
The answer is no . The " deadline " is called such for a reason . The only case where I have seen receipts issued after the deadline but for the prior year is when the financial institution made a mistake . Even then there is the burden of proof that a mistake was indeed made . The good news is you do n't lose your RRSP contribution room ; it carries forward indefinitely . Perhaps in a later year it can again be used to best effect . Interestingly , RRSP contribution deductions can also be carried forward ; i.e. make a contribution this year , but only deduct it in a later year . Sadly , not backwards . The point here , though , is you are not required to deduct your contribution on your 2010 income tax return , either . Young people just starting out sometimes make contributions but defer deduction until they are in a higher tax bracket later .
This is a tax , not a deposit . So no , you will not get it back . You will be able to use your AMT credit , under certain conditions , see the <URL> . Obviously , the actual value of the credit depends on your other items of income , and you may end up never using the whole credit .
end question
start question
What should I do with a low value pension that I probably wo n't contribute any more to ?
If possible , I 'd rather get ahold of some of the value of that pension It 's not ( currently ) possible . Although there has recently been a pretty big shake-up in the world of UK pensions , the fundamental principle that money put into a pension is inaccessible until retirement still holds . If anyone Advised you , they should have made this extremely clear ; if there was no Advice , there would have been prominent text to this effect somewhere in the written materials you were given ( the Key Facts Illustration or similar ) . In your position ( NB this is not Advice , and I am not a financial adviser ) , I would transfer that pension to a low-cost SIPP , using a provider offering free transfers , rather than allowing it to possibly be marked ' dormant ' and the funds invested in a poor-value tied fund . Then at least you could choose where it was invested . Check for any guaranteed benefits you would lose by transferring out .
There are certain allowable reasons to withdraw money from a 401K . The desire to free your money from a " bad " plan is not one of them . A rollover is a special type of withdrawal that is only available after one leaves their current employer . So as long as you stay with your current company , you can not rollover . [ Exception : if you are over age 59.5 ] One option is to talk to HR , see if they can get a expansion of offerings . You might have some suggestions for mutual funds that you would like to see . The smaller the company the more likely you will have success here . That being said , there is some research to support having few choices . Too many choices intimidates people . It 's quite popular to have " target funds " That is funds that target a certain retirement year . Being that I will be 50 in 2016 , I should invest in either a 2030 or 2035 fund . These are a collection of funds that rebalances the investment as they age . The closer one gets to retirement the more goes into bonds and less into stocks . However , I think such rebalancing is not as smart as the experts say . IMHO is almost always better off heavily invested in equity funds . So this becomes a second option . Invest in a Target fund that is meant for younger people . In my case I would put into a 2060 or even 2065 target . As JoeTaxpayer pointed out , even in a plan that has high fees and poor choices one is often better off contributing up to the match . Then one would go outside and contribute to an individual ROTH or IRA ( income restrictions may apply ) , then back into the 401K until the desired amount is invested . You could always move on to a different employer and ask some really good questions about their 401K . Which leads me back to talking with HR . With the current technology shortage , making a few tweaks to the 401K , is a very cheap way to make their employees happy . If you can score a 1099 contracting gig , you can do a SEP which allows up to a whopping 53K per year . No match but with typically higher pay , sometimes overtime , and a high contribution limit you can easily make up for it .
These are the basics in order : Max your employer contributions to your 401k if available Pay off any loans Contribute to an IRA Perhaps max out your 401k Look into other investment options ( refinance your mortgage , buy stocks ) Those are the typical rules , special situations may need specials actions ...
Usually the best advice is to find a company that offers IRAs containing low-cost index funds . <URL> is a noted example . Open a rollover IRA there and invest in funds the <URL> way . Pick an allocation by using the <URL> tag here to get the information you need about international stocks , domestic stocks , bonds , risk tolerance , and where you can find way more information . Rebalance that allocation every 12-18 months . Other than that , ignore the market . Unless you have the resources of a hedge fund manager , and maybe not even then , you wo n't be able to beat indexes like the S&amp;P 500 on their performance . Why should you go this route ? A little-touted fact about retirement investing is that one of the best ways to grow your money is to choose funds with the lowest expense ratio ( percentage of your earnings that go to the fund managers ) . See these questions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
1 . What forms do I need to file to receive money from Europe None . Your client can pay you via wire transfer . They need to know your name , address , account number , and the name of your bank , its SWIFT number and its associated address . The addresses and names are required to make sure there are no typos in the numbers . 2 . What forms do I need to file to pay people in Latin America ( or any country outside the US ) None . 1099s only need to be filled out when the contractor has a US tax ID . Make sure they are contractors . If they work for you for more than 2 years , that can create a problem unless they incorporate because they might look like " employees " to the IRS in which case you need to be reporting their identitites to the IRS via a W-8BEN form . Generally speaking any foreign contractor you have for more than 2 years should incorporate in their own country and you bill that corporation to prevent employee status from occurring . 3 . Can I deduct payments I made to contractors from other countries as company expense Of course .
First , your benchmark : Your SB account gives you 4 % . Now , consider a fixed deposit . Banks offer you those , at rates that depend on the term . The 1-year FD today gets you between 9 and 9.5 % . While the term is locked in , you can get an early withdrawal - if you exit the 1 year FD within , say , 60 days , they 'll give you the interest rate that applied for 60 days when you started the FD ( with some banks reducing a further 1 % from that rate as a penalty ) . Still , your principal is returned in full ( the penalty is only on the interest ) . Negatives : Taxes . The interest paid is fully taxed , and worse , taxes are deducted at source ( TDS = 10 % of the interest ) , so even if you do n't use the interest it 's counted as income and taxed . Next , consider a short term debt mutual fund . These are , for terms of more than a month , just as low on risk as a bank fixed deposit . There is no equity , and these funds put money back into bank wholesale deposits which give an even better rate . You can withdraw any time you want ( it takes only a day to get money back into your account ) . Usually early withdrawal penalties will apply for about 30 days , but if you have a longer horizon that should n't be a problem . The good part : No TDS , and the interest received is not considered " income " , until you withdraw . So if you get 9 % and do n't exit , you pay no taxes , and the compounding of the full 9 % happens . It 's an alternative to a Savings Bank account - just keep putting your money in , and take it out when you need it . The bad part : There is no guarantee that you 'll get 9 % ; with market prices being volatile , the yields could drop to 6 % . So you have to track this carefully ( currently , yields have been between 8 and 9 % for the last year ) A more detailed piece on this at : <URL> Choosing such a fund : I wrote an article about it at <URL> - I still continue to be invested in those funds ( and they 're giving me about 9 % ) The above are limited risk options . For a long term view I would consider equity investments ( buying stocks or equity mutual funds ) from reputed funds . If you 're risk averse consider buying a " balanced " fund like HDFC Prudence , where they invest part in fixed income markets and part in stocks . Lastly , do n't look at the recent past only . The Sensex has returned over 18 % in the last ten years , but the ten years before that were horrible . Equity markets are risky , but can give you fantastic returns as well .
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
Do not provide any personal information . If the debt is not yours , ask the caller to provide all the identifying information they have over the phone to verify whether they have your information , or are just following up on similar names . Even if they have information that is yours , do not provide more information . Always make them tell you what they know . If they provide information that is not yours , simply state that it is not your information and politely end the call . If they persist in calling you , there are local agencies you can report them to . If they have your information , then ask for all of the details of the debt -- who is it owed to , when was the debt incurred , what was the original amount of the debt , what is the current balance , when was the last activity on the account , what is their relation to creditor . Once you know the creditor , you can contact them directly for more information . It is possible they may have written off the account and closed it , selling it to a debt collector in order to get some sort of return on debt . If they truly have a debt that is yours , and you did not incur it , then you will need to file a police report for a case of identity theft . Be prepared for some scrutiny .
The recipient might be tough , not all checks I receive will have my address . If it does , and you 're inclined , just mail it to them or drop it off if you are nearby . If not , I might just return to sender . This all depends on the nature of the check , if it 's a refund/rebate check from a big company , mailing it back may be pointless .
" The SEC considers a day trade to be any trade that is opened and closed within the same trading day , and considers a day trader to be any trader that completes 4 or more day trades within 5 business days . " If so they would label you day trader and in the US you are required to have at least $ 25K in your account . Maybe that 's why they require you to add more money to your account ? See more at <URL> and <URL> .
The psychology of investing is fascinating . I buy a stock that 's out of favor at $ 10 , and sell half at a 400 % profit , $ 50/share . Then another half at $ 100 , figuring you do n't ever lose taking a profit . Now my Apple shares are over $ 500 , but I only have 100 . The $ 10 purchase was risky as Apple pre-iPod was n't a company that was guaranteed to survive . The only intelligent advice I can offer is to look at your holdings frequently , and ask , " would I buy this stock today given its fundamentals and price ? " If you would n't buy it , you should n't hold it . ( This is in contrast to the company ratings you see of buy , hold , sell . If I should hold it , but you should n't buy it to hold , that makes no sense to me . ) Disclaimer - I am old and have decided stock picking is tough . Most of our retirement accounts are indexed to the S&amp;P . Maybe 10 % is in individual stocks . The amount my stocks lag the index is less than my friends spend going to Vegas , so I 'm happy with the results . Most people would be far better off indexing than picking stocks .
You could find a relative in another country who has the ability to receive PayPal , and have them transfer the money to you via Western Union or Hawala .
According to <URL> : Your eligibility to claim a deduction for your Traditional IRA contribution on your federal tax return depends on whether you are an active participant of an employer-sponsored plan in the year to which your deduction applies . If neither you nor your spouse is an active participant , you may deduct your full contribution for the year , up to the contribution limit . [ further down the page ] If you are eligible to make salary-deferral contributions but elect not to , you are not considered an active participant for that year . This should probably be qualified by nothing that the <URL> also says you are considered " covered " by a retirement plan if " any contributions or forfeitures were allocated to your account " . In other words , if your employer 's plan involves them putting money into your account on their own ( regardless of your own contributions ) , then you are covered . This is an interesting question that I have seen asked many times but never seen definitively answered by a truly authoritative source ( i.e. , the IRS or a tax attorney ) . The above is the clearest info I could find .
I just withdrew the the amount for the partial loan payment , so now I end up paying only partial penalty for the amount i needed to fulfil the loan .
If you believe you can time the crash , then " invest " in cash keep a good credit rating and buy some property just after the crash that cashflows well enough to pay the mortgage for a long time We all know what comes after a crash ... just as we know what comes after the doom , we just do n't know when ... .
Right now interest rates are pretty low and as such you wo n't see blockbuster interest rates in anything highly liquid . That being said you 're motivation is liquidity over rate of return anyway so I do n't think that is a concern . Money Market funds should give you a similar return to AMEX Personal Savings . Due to their lack of a rate guarantee I would n't be surprised if that is simply a branded Money Market account . Your best bet is to look at what rates you can get on any short term security and park your money in the one that best suites your needs and offers the greatest return . Money Markets are simply a great way for you to keep your cash liquid while investing you in a broad range of liquid assets ( diversification is key ) .
You must leap frog . Open the new account ( which increases your credit limit and decreases your utilization , therefore increasing your credit score a tad ) then close the old account a bit later . Closing will have opposite effect on your score . ( Decreasing your overall limit and increasing your utilization . ) Unless you are paying an annual fee , I would n't bother actually closing the old account , just stop using it and shred the cards . The bank will close it for you eventually . By the way , if you are planning on letting it expire , do n't forget to keep it up to date in your budget or tracking software . And do n't lose any online account information either . You still need to pay attention to it for odd activity and keep it secure . If you are paying an annual fee , and it is due soon , then I would suggest closing it after you have your new card to avoid the fee .
You need to file an amended return with the IRS . You can find details <URL> . I believe you 'd file the 1040X and the NR . Attach the 1040NR to the 1040X . More detailed instructions can be found <URL> .
The benefit of multiple accounts - You might wish to have more beneficiary combinations than one account form will permit . You wish to buy a fund that 's part of a different broker 's free offering . If held in banks where the FDIC insurance limits might be an issue , separate banks might make sense . I 'll edit ( and invite others to ) if I think of others , but Dilip 's answer , ' no ' is correct . Taxwise , no benefit .
There are brokers that offer mutual funds with no fee . Others offer no commission ETFs . This would enable you to buy funds or ETFs from multiple fund families , if that 's your wish , but keep them in the same account . My own preference is to keep things as simple as possible , the fewer accounts , the better . If somehow one broker 's offering is n't to your liking , you should be able to do it with 2 . Great start , and the Roth is a great choice to kickstart your retirement account .
end question
start question
Is it better to use a 401k loan to make a down payment or to put less than 20 % down ?
I would put down 12 % and pay PMI . Either way , you are taking out a loan , with payments against 88 % of the value of the home . I assume the mortgage note would be either 15 or 30 years and the 401k loan would be less ( 5 ? 10 ? ) . If you take out an 88 % mortgage loan and pay it off at the same pace you would have paid the 401k loan , you 'll be down to 80 % LTV quickly and PMI will stop . If the housing market rebounds and your house appreciates , you 'll be at 80 % LTV quickly . If you change jobs/lose jobs your mortgage will be unaffected . PMI is an easily quantifiable risk that is worth paying in this case . Contrasted with the 401k loan , the job loss/job change risk is great . It is n't just if you lose your job . Maybe you 'll find a great opportunity with a great company that has a 401k plan that does n't allow loans . Will you forgo taking that job because of your 401k loan ?
There are multiple answers here which discuss credit scoring criteria . A good score does n't require that you pay interest on a loan . I like that you 're thinking about this so far in advance . A credit inquiry does impact your score for 2 years . I refinanced my mortgage in November 2011 , and the result was nearly $ 5000 less interest per year . Along with that , came a ding to my report , it fades overtime , and falls off after the second year . I do recommend finding the cards that you plan to use for a long time . ( again , other posts here discuss ideal cards ) For me , it was a card that gives 2 % to my daughter 's 529 college account . For you , a different cash back card might be better . Either way , enough available credit so you do n't get a bill representing more than 19 % of the total credit lines . Then pay in full . Do n't apply for any new credit starting 25 months prior to house hunting . And plan to put 20 % down . Average age of accounts helps your score , so constantly opening new accounts and cancelling old is bad . A few related answers help provide a greater understanding of credit scoring - <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
I would guess that before the spin-off , more money would be available In my experience the reverse is true . The finance folks go into overdrive tightening everything up so that budget forecasts for the transition period are as accurate and predictable as possible . This can be true 6 months out , 12 months out , etc - depending on the size and complexity of the business . So in terms of when to renegotiate , I think approaching the issue after the dust has settled is more realistic . Make sure you know your numbers as per normal and just remember that after the spin-off has occurred it 's a business like any other business : if you are in position to negotiate ( and reasonably expect ) a raise then the fact that they spun off recently - a month or two before - is meaningless to the negotiation .
The following advice assumes that you have a significant amount already in the account in cash equivalents . If you are only talking a few hundred bucks or so , then just jump in at the next dip ( like today 's ) . If you have a larger amount to move into equities , the safest approach is to gradually move it into investments over some period of time at regular intervals regardless of what is going on in the market . This mitigates the risk of investing it all into an fund that is peaking at the exact moment you buy . So , for example , you might invest 20 % of the total amount each month for 5 months to gradually get into the market . The larger the amount you are investing , the more you probably want to spread it out , but do n't spread it out much further than a year or you are losing opportunity cost by leaving your money in cash-type investments with likely a very poor rate of return . This strategy is called <URL> if you want to research it more .
You can rollover money from a 401 ( k ) to Traditional IRA and back to a 401 ( k ) . There are likely account closure fees associated with this , so it 's not completely free . As long as you 're rolling from one tax deferred account to another there are no penalties . The IRS has a <URL> showing what accounts can roll where . Note , starting next year , you can only do one IRA rollover per year . The IRS has <URL> . One additional comment - on the concept of your money being " locked " into an IRA . Generally you have far more options with an IRA than a 401 ( k ) . If you go with a large , low cost provider like Vanguard you 're likely to be much better off than in a small company 401 ( k ) that only offers costly funds that are likely selected primarily to benefit the administrator of the plan . Choose your IRA provider and the investments with them wisely , and leave that money there for a very long time .
As I understand it ( please correct me if i 'm wrong , i 've looked at this before and i 've been a sole trader briefly but I 've never formed a LTD company ) there are pros and cons to forming a limited company . Pros The tax situation is more flexible . As a sole trader all profits are considered income and subject to income tax and class 4 NI . With a LTD company there is a distinction between money paid out in salary , profits paid out as dividends and profits retained in the buisness . This can sometimes reduce your total tax outlay if you think about how you move the money arround and especially if you want to reinvest your profits in growing the buisness rather than taking them as personal income . you have some shielding ( though not total protection ) . from liabilities run up by the company if it goes bankrupt . You have the structure in place to sell parts of your buisness to other investors . Some companies dislike dealing with sole traders because they can get into trouble if a self employed contractor starts acting like an employee . Cons More paperwork , you have to keep track of the companies money seperate from your own . You should also generally pay yourself at least some of your income as salary which means dealing with the employer side of PAYE and possiblly with workplace pensions . Self employed class 4 NI is lower than the NI ( employees and employers ) paid for an employee . ( It 's also lower than corporation tax but dividends attract a reduced level of income tax which offsets this ) . So if you are n't careful about managing your money you may end up paying more tax as a LTD company .
There 's a different reason to have more than one credit card . ( If you have three , that 's probably enough . ) Someone can get access to your account number , and start making fraudulent charges . When you report this to the issuer , they cancel your account to prevent further charges . They send you a new one , but there 's a delay . This happened to not one , but two of our credit cards at the same time . Thank goodness we had a third one that we could use in the meantime . If we had had just one card to use , we 'd be cash only until the new cards arrived , which would have been a big inconvenience because we were used to using our card for everything . ( It was inconvenience enough tracking down all of the automatic bill payments we had on the cards that were compromised . )
Specifically on the subject of maxing out your 401k , there are several downsides : The employer match usually only applies to the first 6 % . Some employers offer no match at all . You listed the match as a pro , but I think it should be pointed out that you can usually get this benefit without maxing out your plan . The investment options are limited . Usually there is at least one fund available from all the common investment classes , but these may not be your preferred funds if you were able to choose for yourself . Fees can be very high . If you are working for a small to medium size company , the fees for each fund will often be higher than for the same funds in a plan offered by a large company . Fees are usually related to the dollar amount of assets under management . Each person has a different tax situation , so if you are single and making 6 figures , you might still be in the 25 % bracket even after maxing out your 401k , but the same person filing jointly with a spouse that makes less could get down to the 15 % bracket with a smaller contribution . I meet my retirement savings goals without maxing out the 401k . As long as the amount is above the employer match amount , my second priority is to funnel as much money as possible in to my IRA ( because I get lower fees and better investment options from Vanguard ) .
Did you read your own question out loud ? Holy cow . Two years to pay off $ 1700 !? Get a part time job , sell some stuff on eBay , and cut your lifestyle . You can be done with this in two months . Despite the math , you 'd be better off to cut your 401 ( k ) contributions to zero until the balances are paid off . That sense of loss of the 9 % income will motivate you to get this nonsense cleaned up , and will probably preclude you from borrowing money at 17.9 % again . The course of action you are proposing is not the smartest . In two years , you have a decent chance of being laid off or changing jobs . Once that happens your 401 ( k ) loan is due in 60 days , or it is considered a withdrawal . Tack on another 40 % to your loan balance . You also have to consider the behavior aspect of your plan . If you solve this problem in a painless way will you likely borrow again ? Yep . So now you will have a 401 ( k ) loan for $ 1700 and probably your credit cards will have a similar balance to what they are today . Still , it was good of you to ask .
BlackJack 's answer is technically correct : government credit ratings are independent of corporate credit ratings . The rating should reflect the borrower 's ability to repay its obligations . One reason the book you read may have stated that corporate credit ratings can not be better than the government 's credit rating is that the government , unlike the corporation , can steal ( or in government parlance " tax " ) from anywhere or anyone . So if a government finds itself in financial difficulty it could simply take the cash from corporations or people with high credit ratings by a variety of methods : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or simply <URL> . This increases the risk of doing business in a country with an over-extended government . Over extended governments do not die gracefully . They only die when there is nothing left to steal .
If you have any non-mortgage debt -- e.g. a credit card , a line of credit , a student loan , or a car loan -- then I would pay that down first . The interest being paid on that kind of borrowed money likely exceeds what you could expect to earn in reasonable investments . If you do n't have any non-mortgage debt , and your mortgage is large ( e.g. thinking about it keeps you up at night , sometimes :-) then go for the the extra mortgage payment . Also go for the mortgage if you 're paying at a relatively high interest rate compared to what you could expect from investments . If your mortgage is small ( e.g. it 's going to be paid off in a few years ) and at a relatively low interest rate , then I would choose the RRSP or TFSA . Unless you 're in the top income tax bracket , I would favor the TFSA over RRSP -- TFSAs were only introduced this year and any balance there already is likely tiny compared to the RRSP . For retirement , I 'm aiming to have equal amounts of RRSP and TFSA money . One option you have n't mentioned is an RESP . If you have children under the age of 18 , your bonus could also be used to make next year 's RESP contribution and qualify for the 20 % matching Canada Education Savings Grant ( CESG ) from the government .
Self employment is typically harder to qualify with than W2 income . In general the bank is going to want 2 years of tax returns . You will be asked to sign a 4506-T that allows the bank to get the records directly from the IRS . Self employment income will be averaged across the 2 years , I do n't think a 20 % drop in profits is large enough to cause concern but it might . I would plan on being able borrow against the lowest year just in case . If you get a W2 job you will be able to count the income immediately assuming it is not a temporary position . The bank will ask for the offer letter . If you have decent credit and 20 % down , you should be able to get a mortgage either way . A W2 is typically less paperwork and you would get to claim your current income assuming that is higher than your past income .
From a user perspective , my standpoint is to use the cheapest available to me , that the receiver will find acceptable .
In most of North America , water rates are cheap enough that it will save in actual dollars to do this at home ; but there are other considerations . You might also factor in your own enjoyment ; if you like washing the car , more power to you , if you do not , then your time might be better spent doing something else . The environmental factors are harder . The car-wash probably uses more electricity , and the amount of water is difficult to judge , as it depends on how you wash the car yourself . One major difference , from an environmental perspective would be that all your soap and other grime and oils , in the city , are all washing down a storm drain and going untreated into your local waterway . The car-wash likely is connected to a sanitary sewer , so the water would be treated before being released . I tend to take the most cost and environmentally effective approach ; and wait for rain . :-)
It 's an effective way to achieve market segmentation without having to ask your customers how rich they are , and you get the benefit of finding out additional information like their address , email etc. . The principle is similar to coupons on cereal boxes , anybody can get the rebate/discount if they go to the effort , but people who are cash rich/time poor are less likely to do so than those that really need the money . Joe Spolsky <URL> about this and various other pricing mechanisms a while back , I like to reference the article every few weeks . It 's well worth a read . Now , if you 're retired and living off of social security , $ 7 an hour sounds pretty good , so you do it , but if you 're a stock analyst at Merrill Lynch getting paid $ 12,000,000 a year to say nice things about piece-of-junk Internet companies , working for $ 7 an hour is a joke , and you 're not going to clip coupons . Heck , in one hour you could issue " buy " recommendations on ten piece-of-junk Internet companies ! So coupons are a way for consumer products companies to charge two different prices and effectively segment their market into two . Mail-in rebates are pretty much the same as coupons , with some other twists like the fact that they reveal your address , so you can be direct marketed to in the future .
revised after your edit You 'd be potentially earning $ 8-10K a year after property taxes ( before income taxes ) , and getting the balloon payment in 5 years . Add to that maintenance fees , you would have a $ 30K cushion allowing you to sell at $ 30K loss to break even . So if you sell at gain - you made some money . During the last 5 years the prices fell by 25-50 % , so people who tried this trick 5 years ago are in a very bad place right now . You have a very good chance to join them . However , if the prices are to go up and you are able to sell the property in 5 years , you can make some gain . At current ARM 5/1 rates ( 3.125 % according to zillow mortgage marketplace ) , it looks like you 're borrowing ~ $ 655K , which makes it $ 850K purchase . Prices go down 5 % - you lost all your profits . Prices go up 5 % - you doubled it . Quite a gamble , I 'd say . I think that its insane , for someone who has no idea in real estate , to spend $ 200K in cash and more than half a million in liability , that 's what got us into the housing market collapse to begin with . in addition A point made by @mhoran_psprep is depreciation . For a $ 850K you 're writing off $ 30K a year depreciation . That will be recaptured when you sell , i.e. : if you sell for the same price as you bought it for , you 're going to have $ 150K capital gain on your hands . Which in turn means , assuming current long term capital gains rates , $ 22.5 K tax bill . Current rates are for this year only , and if expire - the tax bill is going to be even higher . $ 30K cushion we calculated above ? Paid to Uncle Sam . Pufff , gone . You 're with 5K left of it , for 5 years period of investing your $ 200K cash . That 's 0.5 % annual ROI . HORRIBLE . You can put your $ 200K in a savings account and get higher guaranteed returns . And that 's with a reasonable scenario of prices staying more or less flat in the next 5 years .
As a general principle if you are able to comfortably afford Rs20 K every month , with contingency , you should go ahead . The value of Rs 7000 may be less in later years , however it does not impact anything , the other consideration you need to make is if you can afford 20 K , then paying 7 K in interest will leave you with 13 K. Are you comfortable to make an investment of 13 K in something that will return you more than 10 % [ the rate you are paying as interest ] . If you do n't believe you can get more return , then you should take the loan for shorter period .
The preapproval is the bank stating that they will loan you up to A with a down-payment of B for Y years at R rate . If you do n't ned all the money that is great they will still give you the loan . You can keep the down-payment thew some amount of money or the same percentage of the purchase price whichever you want . For example : Preapproval of $ 200,000 and a down-payment of $ 50,000 ( 20 % ) allows you to buy a house for $ 250,000 . But you find one for $ 240,000 , you can either : get a loan for $ 190,000 with a down-payment of $ 50,000 . or get a loan for $ 192,000 and a down-payment of $ 48,000 . Neither of these needs a new pre-approval . In both cases your monthly payment will be lower than the original loan was expected to be . If you want to change to $ 200K for the loan and $ 40K for the down payment . or in other words decrease the percentage of down-payment ; you might run into an issue that the bank does n't think you have enough of your own money in the deal . Or you may now require PMI where you did n't previously . In this case they will need to re-approve you . Now if the price goes up the bank could require more money down , or may need to re-evaluate the loan .
Every 401 ( k ) has managers to make the stock choices . They all have different rates . You want to see that fidelity or Vangard is handling your 401 ( k ) . ( and I am sure others ) If you have a mega bank managing your funds or an insurance company odds are you are paying way to high management fees . So find out , the management fees should be available should be less than 1 % . They can get as high as 2 % ... Ouch
What you propose puts you at risk to owe tax next April . If you are using the Traditional , pre-tax account , $ 100 you put in will reduce the tax withheld , so you might see $ 70 less in your check . By bumping the allowances you withhold even less . If the employer is doing it right , the allowances do n't change for the fact that your 401 ( k ) changes deposits . Edit - To clarify - Traditional 401 ( k ) are withheld pretax . The effect is that my W2 reflects a box 1 Wages figure that is lower than either my Social Security wages or Medicare wages . All else being equal , 2 people with same number of W4 allowances , first has $ 60K income with a $ 10K 401 ( k ) deduction , the second has $ 50K income . The federal tax withholding should be identical as payroll withhold on the same $ 50K for each . My <URL> may help explain this a bit more . To specifically answer your last edited line , if your W4 is perfect , and you increase 401 ( k ) deductions , aside from trivial anomalies , it should remain perfect .
end question
start question
Why do governments borrow money instead of printing it ?
Governments borrowing money does n't create new money . When banks " borrow " money ( i.e. take deposits ) , it does effectively create money because the depositor expects to be able to get the money back at any time , but the bank assumes that most wo n't actually do this and lends out most of the money to other people . If everyone did actually ask for their money back at once , the illusion of the extra money created by this process would collapse , and the bank would go bust . In contrast when governments borrow money , the loan is n't repayable on demand , it has a fixed maturity and the money is only repaid at the end of that period ( plus interest at defined points during the period ) . So holders of government debt do n't have money they can spend ( they can turn it into money they can spend but only by finding someone else to buy it ) . So government debt does n't create inflation in itself . If they printed money , then they 'd be devaluing the money of everyone who had saved or invested , whereas if they borrow money and use taxes to repay it , the burden falls more evenly across the economy and does n't disproportionately penalise certain sets of people .
The mechanism of supply and demand is imperfect . Producers do n't know exactly how many purchasers/consumers for a good there are . Some goods , by their nature , are in short supply , and some are plentiful . The process of price discovery is one where ( in a nominally free market ) producers and purchasers make offers and counter-offers to assess what the price should be . As they do this the historical price changes , usually floating around some long-term average . As it goes up , we experience inflation . As it goes down , deflation . However , there is n't a fixed supply of producers and purchasers , so as new ones arrive and old ones leave , this too has an impact on supply and prices . Money ( either in electronic or physical form ) needs to be available to reflect the transactions and underpin the economy . Most central banks ( at least in more established economies ) aim for inflation of 2-4 % by controlling the availability of money and the cost of borrowing new money . There are numerous ways they can do this ( printing , issuing bonds , etc. ) . The reason one wants some degree of inflation is because employees will never accept a pay cut even when one would significantly improve the overall economy . Companies often decrease their prices in order to match lower demand , but employees do n't usually accept decreased wages for decreased labour demand . A nominal degree of overall money inflation therefore solves this problem . Employees who get a below-inflation wage increase are actually getting a wage cut . Supply and demand must be matched and some inflation is the inevitable consequence of this .
As you point out , the moving average is just and is applied in technical analysis ( TA ) to smooth out volatile ( noise ) price action . If it has any logic to it , you might want to think in terms of return series and you could hypothesize that prices are in fact predictable and will oscillate below and above a running moving average . Below is a link to a study on MA trading rules , published in the Journal of Finance , with the conclusion of predictive power and abnormal returns from such strategies . As with any decision made upon historical arguments , one should be aware of structural changes and or data mining . <URL> Brock , W. , J. Lakonishok and B. Le Baron , 1992 , Simple technical trading rules and the stochastic properties of stock returns , Journal of Finance , 47 , 1731-64 . MA rules betterthan chance in US stock market , 1897-1986 I do n't know whether you are new to TA or not , but a great commercial site , with plenty of computer-generated signals is <URL> .
They borrowed it from the people , and typically to finance wars and military spending . For example , Wikipedia suggests that the Bank of England <URL> It 's a game that everyone has to play once started ; if Napoleon buys an army on credit , you 'll have to raise an equal amount or face quite a problem . As for why they 've grown so large , it 's because governments are quite skilled at owing large sums of money . Only a small portion of the debt comes due in full at a given moment , and they constantly reissue new debt via auction to keep it rolling . So as long as they can make coupon ( interest ) and the lump sum at maturity , it 's not difficult to keep up . Imagine how much credit card debt you could rack up if you only ever had to pay interest . This game will continue for as long as people lend . And there are plenty of lenders . There 's pensions , mutual funds and endowments , which find public debt typically safer than stocks . And money market funds , which target 1 dollar NAV and only invest in the " safest " AAA-rated bonds to protect it . There 's central banks , which can buy and sell public debt to manipulate inflation and exchange rates . Absent some kind of UN resolution to ban lending , or perhaps a <URL> , these debts will likely continue to grow . You think they " collectively owe more money than can exist " , but there 's a lot of wealth in the world . Most nations owe less than a year 's GDP . For example , the US 's total wealth is in the neighborhood of 50 trillion .
In short ( pun intended ) , the shareholder lending the shares does not believe that the shares will fall , even though the potential investor does . The shareholder believes that the shares will rise . Because the two individuals believe that a different outcome will occur , they are able to make a trade . By using the available data in the market , they have arrived at a particular conclusion of the fair price for the trade , but each individual wants to be on the other side of it . Consider a simpler form of your question : Why would a shareholder agree to sell his/her shares ? Why do n't they just wait to sell , when the price is higher ? After all , that is why the buyer wants to purchase the shares . On review , I realize I 've only stated here why the original shareholder would n't simply sell and rebuy the share themselves ( because they have a different view of the market ) . As to why they would actually allow the trade to occur - Zak ( and other answers ) point out that the shares being lent are compensated for by an initial fee on the transaction + the chance for interest during the period that the shares are owed for .
Some companies have banks and brokerages that are completely separate systems . So you could be actually running ACH transactions between two different banking entities . Bank of America used to have significant latency between BoA accounts , because they ran into delays integrating Fleet , BankSouth and BoA systems .
I like to put money I am going to spend in my Quicken register ( similar to Money in my limited experience ) and that is the big ticket feature missing from mint.com . Mint.com can only tell you what you did , or in a very general sense what you plan to do . As a register , mint.com is flexible enough for me to categorize my transactions . As a planning / budgeting tool mint.com is very simple and fast to get going , but lacks the depth of a budget I want to manage every week . Mint.com also tracks my investments , but I freely admit my investment management is nothing more than putting money into the same accounts . I bother with investment tracking other than looking to see it is n't zero . I say try mint.com . Mint.com has a place to totally delete your account .
Some banks waive the normal holds for check clearance for paychecks .
I would not recommend borrowing your 401 ( k ) money to buy a house for two reasons : When you borrow money from your 401 ( k ) , it is no longer invested . Yes , you pay yourself interest , but you miss out on the investment gains for the life of the loan . If you leave your job , the loan is due in full shortly thereafter . If you do not pay it back , you are hit with taxes and penalties . If I were you , I would roll it over into an IRA for the reasons you mentioned .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
" It 's more complicated than that . " Governments raise money in a number of ways . First , they tax economic activity within their borders and for connected companies and individuals . Then , some governments have actual revenues from state-owned enterprises ( licences , patents , courts , business revenues , and so on ) . Whatever shortage arises between state expenditure and this income is the deficit which is usually financed through debt . Government usually issues a bond ( <URL> ) of various types , some with extremely lengthy maturation dates . These bonds can be purchased both locally and by foreign investment funds . The nature of who buys is important . From the Wikipedia link you 'll see that most government debt is very highly rated based on the ability of the state to simply raise taxes in order to fund redemption . Pension funds are legally bound to only invest in highly-rated investment classes and the bulk of bonds may be purchased to support local pensioners . A state that defaults on debt will first hit its own most vulnerable citizens . In addition , the fall-out will result in a savage cut in ratings . Countries like Argentina and Zimbabwe , which have both refused to repay their debts even to the IMF , are currently unable to raise investment at all . This has a tremendous impact on local economic development . So , default is out of the question without severe penalties . The second part of your question is about paying down the debt . As debts increase , more and more of the revenue that a country does earn is spent on servicing debt repayments . Sometimes bonds are issued merely to refinance old debt . A country that spends too much on refinancing debt is no different from an individual . Less and less money is available to do other things . In conclusion : governments can neither default nor binge-borrow unless they wish to severely limit economic opportunities for their citizens .
First lets understand what convexity means : <URL> - convexity refers to non-linearities in a financial model . In other words , if the price of an underlying variable changes , the price of an output does not change linearly , but depends on the second derivative ( or , loosely speaking , higher-order terms ) of the modeling function . Geometrically , the model is no longer flat but curved , and the degree of curvature is called the convexity . Okay so for us idiots this means : if the price of ABC ( we will call P ) is determined by X and Y . Then if X decreases by 5 then the value of P might not necessarily decrease by 5 but instead is also dependent on Y ( wtf $ % # ! is Y ? , who cares , its not important for us to know , we can understand what convexity is without knowing the math behind it ) . So if we chart this the line would look like a curve . ( clearly this is an over simplification of the math involved but it gives us an idea ) So now in terms of options , convexity is also known as gamma , it will probably be easier to talk about gamma instead of using a confusing word like convexity ( gamma is the convexity of options ) . So lets define Gamma : <URL> - The rate of change for delta with respect to the underlying asset 's price . So the gamma of an option indicates how the <URL> will change relative to a 1 point move in the underlying asset . In other words , the Gamma shows the option delta 's sensitivity to market price changes . or Gamma shows how volatile an option is relative to movements in the underlying asset . So the answer is : If we are long gamma ( convexity of an option ) it simply means we are betting on higher volatility in the underlying asset ( in your case the VIX ) . Really that simple ? Well kinda , to fully understand how this works you really need to understand the math behind it . But yes being long gamma means being long volatility . An example of being " long gamma " is a <URL> Side Note : I personally do trade the VIX and it can be very volatile , you can make or lose lots of money very quickly trading VIX options . Some resources : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> - further reading if your interested . <URL> - even more reading .
While the US hosts most of the world 's innovative startups , its own financial and banking systems are very slow to change . The infrastructure exists , however the ACH transfers are not wide-spread between individuals . Banks much prefer the option of bill-pay ( i.e. : as you said , mailing a check , something in other countries people would n't even think of ) , than letting you do it yourself . Why ? Because they can . There 's no real competition over consumers , and the consumers themselves are not educated or sophisticated . Thus , the banks are comfortable with the lack of innovation - since as long as they are all lacking innovation - consumers wo n't demand it because they wo n't even know things are possible . And it is definitely cheaper for the banks not to innovate and keep your money for a week while the bill-pay check is en route , than try and develop new things . In other countries , the regulator would step up and force banks to develop new infrastructure and widen the options , but in the US regulation is considered a bad thing , and people are easily swayed , being uneducated and uninformed , by the corporations to support politicians who act against their ( people 's ) best interest in protecting the corporations and reducing and limiting the regulators even further .
To answer your specific question about income , the answer is : about $ 20,000 ( or a little less ) in yearly income put you in the top 10 % of income earners in the United States in 1970 . This information is provided by <URL> ( PDF page 13 , labeled as page 11 , table 1 , document entitled " Household Money Income in 1975 and Selected Social and Economic Characteristics of Households " ) . The census data also has a breakdown by race of head of household , and note that this is household income and not individual income ( so 2 income households are included in this data , though 2-income families were more rare then than today ) . Median income was around $ 9,000 per year at this time , so a little more than double the average family would put you in the top 10 % . There was also much less inequality in both income and wealth during this time period as compared to now . To <URL> , and you 'll need a household income over $ 150,000 to get into the top 10 % . Note that this link also shows 1970 information , but everything is inflation adjusted to make it more easily comparable dollar-for-dollar - sort of . What Was " One Million Dollars " In 1970 ? About $ 100,000 ( by income - sort of ) If you are a top-10 % earner with a yearly income of $ 150,000 now , 1 million bucks is a little less than 7 years of income . If we apply this multiple to 1970s income of $ 20,000 per year , that means that 7 years of income is $ 140,000 . So I suppose in a very rough estimate sort of way , you could say that $ 100,000 in 1970 is kind of like $ 1,000,000 today - about 7 years of income if you are just barely making enough to be in the top 10 % of wage earners . Why Not Use Inflation ? The problem with inflation is it is generally defined in terms of a specific " market basket " of consumer goods , to try to compare general buying power over time . The problem is that this is a really rough , problematic estimate , because things change in price relative to each other over time . JoeTaxpayer makes a very good point about interest rates and houses , and another example is consumer electronics . Not only are today 's electronics actually cheaper than they use to be , but they are difficult to compare at all because they are more powerful and useful than ever before . Similarly , cars are safer , have less emissions , and are more fuel efficient - so a simple inflation calculation based on macroeconomic changes can provide a very distorted and inaccurate picture . It 's up to you if you think an income-based estimate is more helpful to you in actual 1970s dollar amounts , or if you 'd prefer to think costs and use measures of inflation as your guide . Side Note : Income Inequality Has Changed a Lot Since 1970 In 1970 , half of households made more than $ 10,000 a year and only 4 % made over $ 25,000 ( more than 2.5 X as much as the median ) . In 2014 about half of households make over $ 50,000 a year , while 5 % make over $ 200,000 a year ( more than 4X as much as the median ) . These numbers are all rounded to convenient numbers , but the reason I mention this is that the difference in the top 10 % of wage earners now compared to the " average " American is far greater ( in absolute dollar terms ) than it was during the 1970s . There is also a greater proportion of the population now that earns more than 2.5 X as much as the median - about 11 % of households in 2014 - which suggests perceptions of what is " a lot of money " will vary more now than it would have in 1970 . In 1970 our top-10 % family needed around 7 years to make $ 100,000 , while the median family needed 14 years to make that much . In 2014 the top-10 % family needs around 7 years to earn a million , yet the median family needs more than 20 years to earn the same amount .
Following up on this , here is what I did . First , I called my benefits provider . They had documentation of my election over the phone , which then allowed them to retroactively fix the problem . Had they not had this documentation , I would have been out of luck . Second , the next step for " fixing " occurred when I received my W-2 for this position . This W-2 mistakenly showed the amount for my medical FSA in box-10 of my W-2 as the same dependent care FSA . This requires calling/emailing my benefits and payroll department to get an updated W-2 ...
In the case of WhatsApp they probably use revenue from the apple affiliate program , this is how it works : After you sign up and are accepted you can generate links . When someone clicks on the link a cookie is installed on their iDevice , this cookie attributes all purchaces generated to the owner of the affiliate link for the life of the cookie ( 24 hours ) . The owner will then recive a 7 % commission on those purchaces .
John 's answer is similar to what I was thinking . You should invest in insurance " because there 's an insurance salesman who needs to pay to send his kid to college . " I will never be a fan of any type of permanent insurance , and I think it wrong to sell a single person with no dependents such a policy . I 've used the expression " Variable Annuities are sold , not bought . " I feel the same about these insurance policies . The best advice I can offer in a short reply is this : If you need life insurance , buy term . Save as much as you can , 10 % minimum , more if you are able . A young person should be saving for retirement and to position them self to buy their first house , if that 's what they wish . What good is a full up Whole Life policy when you need to raise $ 40K to put down on a house ? Sorry to sound like I 'm lecturing , this is one of my hot points .
In most cases of purchases the general advice is to save the money and then make the purchase . Paying cash for a car is recommended over paying credit for example . For a house , getting a mortgage is recommended . Says who ? These rules of thumb hide the actual equations behind them ; they should be understood as heuristics , not as the word of god . The Basics The basic idea is , if you pay for something upfront , you pay some fixed cost , call it X , where as with a loan you need to pay interest payments on X , say % I , as well as at least fixed payments P at timeframe T , resulting in some long term payment IX . Your Assumption To some , this obviously means upfront payments are better than interest payments , as by the time the loan is paid off , you will have paid more than X . This is a good rule of thumb ( like Newtonian 's equations ) at low X , high % I , and moderate T , because all of that serves to make the end result IX > X. Counter Examples Are there circumstances where the opposite is true ? Here 's a simple but contrived one : you do n't pay the full timeframe . Suppose you die , declare bankruptcy , move to another country , or any other event that reduces T in such a way that XI is less than X . This actually is a big concern for older debtors or those who contract terminal illnesses , as you ca n't squeeze those payments out of the dead . This is basically manipulating the whole concept . Let 's try a less contrived example : suppose you can get a return higher than % I. I can currently get a loan at around % 3 due to good credit , but index funds in the long run tend to pay % 4 - % 5 . Taking a loan and investing it may pay off , and would be better than waiting to have the money , even in some less than ideal markets . This is basically manipulating T to deal with IX . Even less contrived and very real world , suppose you know your cash flow will increase soon ; a promotion , an inheritance , a good market return . It may be better to take the loan now , enjoy whatever product you get until that cash flows in , then pay it all off at once ; the enjoyment of the product will make the slight additional interest worth it . This is n't so much manipulating any part of the equation , it 's just you have different goals than the loan . Home Loan Analysis For long term mortgages , X is high , usually higher than a few years pay ; it would be a large burden to save that money for most people . % I is also typically fairly low ; P is directly related to % I , and the bank ca n't afford to raise payments too much , or people will rent instead , meaning P needs to be affordable . This does not apply in very expensive areas , which is why cities are often mostly renters . T is also extremely long ; usually mortgages are for 15 or 30 years , though 10 year options are available . Even with these shorter terms , it 's basically the longest term loan a human will ever take . This long term means there is plenty of time for the market to have a fluctuation and raise the investments current price above the remainder of the loan and interest accrued , allowing you to sell at a profit . As well , consider the opportunity cost ; while saving money for a home , you still need a place to live . This additional cost is comparable to mortgage payments , meaning X has a hidden constant ; the cost of renting . Often X + R > IX , making taking a loan a better choice than saving up . Conclusion " The general advice " is a good heuristic for most common human payments ; we have relatively long life spans compared to most common payments , and the opportunity cost of not having most goods is relatively low . However , certain things have a high opportunity cost ; if you ca n't talk to HR , you ca n't apply for jobs ( phone ) , if you ca n't get to work , you ca n't eat ( car ) , and if you have no where to live , it 's hard to keep a job ( house ) . For things with high opportunity costs , the interest payments are more than worth it .
Another reason for banks to push this is sitckyness . Once you have all of your bills setup , its more trouble to change banks . This reduces the customer turnover rate , which lowers their costs .
One is a choice the other is not . While they are both liabilities on the balance sheet , in the real world they are quite different . We do not feel as much ownership over our money that goes to interest payments as we do over our tax payments . Taxes pay for our government and the services it provides . Interest , on the other hand , is what we pay in order to have a bank loan us money . Similar to paying for a good or service obtained from some other business , we do not feel we have a say in what the bank does with that money . If we disapprove of a business ' practices , we stop doing business with them ; assuming there are other choices . We can not practically avoid dealing with our government . We certainly feel that we should have a say in what is done with our tax money . I doubt there is anyone in the world that completely approves of their government 's spending . It is very easy to feel marginalized with regard to our tax payments . For example , some people feel resentment because their taxes fund the welfare rolls . All that said , I believe there is little overlap between the two groups . It seems to me that you are referring to those with large amounts of high interest ( e.g. credit card ) debt . I doubt that a large percentage of them are scouring the tax laws , looking for deductions and loopholes . If they had that mindset , they would also be working hard to get out of the hole they are in . In summary , we choose to pay a financial adviser , to take out a loan or to obtain a credit card . We do not choose to pay taxes . Since taxes are supposed to pay for our government and things which should benefit everyone , we want a say in what is done with it . This is also the case because it is forced on us . ( " Fine son , I 'll lend you some money , but I do n't want you buying cigarettes with it . " ) Since our say is limited and we likely will not approve of everything our government does , we want to exert what control we do have : reduce our payments as best we can .
end question
start question
Relocating for first real job out of college ?
Source : I 'm recently ( 2 years ) out of college ( Info Sciences + Technology degree ) Disclaimer : Speaking from limited personal experience ( see above ) A lot of corporate recruiters like the prospect of hiring recent college grads of because of the location flexibility they have ( typically own no real estate , are not married , and have no children ) . " What should I take into consideration given the possibility of relocation ? " - This is very broad , but if you 're open to moving anywhere , let them know . Large companies that work nationally / globally should offer a cost-of-living adjustment ( either separately , or built-in to your salary ) depending on location . This usually does n't equal the difference in cost of living , but it helps . They may also cover relocation expenses . " What questions should I ask of the recruiters extending employment ? " - That 's kinda out of the scope of this site . If they want your input for finance-related issues ( target salary ) , they 'll ask . " Should I consider an apartment or buying a house ? " - You 'll want to rent to start out . At the moment , you 've got a lot of loan debt , a very short income history , and you 're about to ( potentially ) change jobs . Also , relocation means you may not have a great context for where you want to live for the next few years . If you get a job with Amazon and relocate , take a year to settle your finances , then determine if purchasing a house is something you can manage . If you do n't have a savings set aside for a reasonable down payment on a house , you 'll get hit with a mortgage insurance payment each month =\ , and that 's not fun . Do n't try to do too much at once , and make sure you have a full assessment of your finances before making any major purchases . I follow this general rule : Every few months , I fully re-assess our expenditures , and see what we can cut out or cut back on , put a bit into savings , and put the rest against outstanding student loans .
Real estate professionals are able to apply any losses ( in most cases due to depreciation ) to their entire federal tax obligations , personal or professional . If you own an investment property , but are not working in real estate , your investment 's losses can be applied to your tax obligations for that property only , not your overall tax liability .
The buyer discloses the financing arrangements to the seller because it makes his offer more attractive . When a seller receives and accepts an offer , the deal does not usually close until 30 to 60 days later . If the buyer can not come up with the money by closing , the deal falls apart . This is a risk for the seller . When a seller is considering whether or not to accept an offer , it is helpful to know the likelihood that the buyer can actually obtain the amount of cash in the offer by the closing date . If the buyer ca n't acquire the funding , the offer is n't worth the paper it is printed on . The amount of the down payment vs. the amount of financing is also relevant to the seller . Let me give you a real-world example that happened to me once when I was selling a house . The buyer was doing a no-money-down mortgage and had no money for a down payment . He was even borrowing the closing costs . We accepted the offer , but when the bank did the appraisal , it was short of the purchase price . For most home sales , this would not be a problem , as long as the appraisal was more than the amount borrowed . But in this case , because the amount borrowed was more than the appraisal , the bank had a problem . The deal was at risk , and in order to continue either the buyer had to find some money somewhere ( which he could n't ) , or we had to lower the price to save the deal . Certainly , accepting the offer from a buyer with no cash to bring to the table was a risk . ( In our case , we got lucky . We found some errors that were made in the appraisal , and got it redone . )
Your premise is false . When you withdraw money from a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , there is no tax due . Yes , you can read that again : <URL> . They are labeled " tax free " for a good reason ! After-tax money is deposited , and then from that point forward , no tax , no tax , no tax . :-) On a " normal " , non-registered investment or savings account with no special treatment , your investment earnings will be taxed whenever gains are realized or income received ( e.g. dividends or interest ) . You will necessarily have less in a normal non-registered investment or savings account compared to a TFSA , as long as the rate of return was positive , i.e. growing . Perhaps you were thinking not of comparing a regular investment account to a TFSA , but rather to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan ( RRSP ) ? In the case of an RRSP , there is an up-front tax deduction , then earnings grow tax-deferred , and then on withdrawal , income tax is paid at regular rates . Even then , with RRSPs , if your marginal tax rate remains the same over time ( not necessarily a reasonable assumption , but let 's go with it ) then you should still realize more after-tax income from your RRSP than from a normal non-registered investment or savings account . ( Though , there 's likely an exception case when most income came as qualified dividends and the capital itself has n't appreciated . )
Letting idle space is always worth a look , Kaushik . The trick is to find the right mix of the tenant 's needs and your needs . Having been through something similar , here 's a few key points I took away from the experience : It has to feel like an office space/work space for the tenant . This means you will have to consider furniture placement and removal of personal items from the " space " that the tenant will be using . Define the space . Saying something vague like " condo available " will never fly . What space in the condo is available ? What services are available - water , electricity , use of the bathroom ( which one ( s ) ) , etc ? What equipment will they be bringing in with them ? How can the tenant advertise ? What can they say about the setting that wont upset you ( and your neighbours ) ? Who will they be bringing into the premises ? How many at a time ? Will they have assistants with them ? How many parking spaces will they be using ( always more than people think ) ? What are your use expectations ? Trash removed at the end of the day ? Their equipment gone from the premises entirely , or stowed in a closet somewhere ? etc etc Be formal . Have a written agreement that clearly spells out all the details , including an opt-out clause for both parties . In terms of who to look for - that 's an individual decision ( on one hand ) and a business decision ( on the other ) , both in terms of what works for you and what will work for them . Artists , yoga teachers , tutors ( educators ) , music teachers ( probably not drums ) , etc are all good choices . Depending on where the condo is , professional services such as speech/language pathologists , and ed psychs might also work ( you would be looking at subsets for some of these professions - you probably wont want a behavioral specialist working in your condo ) . It does require some planning and thought , but it can be a very good situation for all involved . Specific pros - some minor income for you , the place being looked after while you 're out . Specific cons - tenants can be unpredictable , setting and meeting expectations can be two different things . Treat it formally and you will minimise the surprises .
If your current property is valued at $ 270K and you currently have a mortgage of $ 200k , then your equity in the current property is $ 70K or 25.9 % This means that your LVR is about 74 % . So since your current LVR is below 80 % you do n't pay any LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) . If you were looking to buy another property worth approximately $ 300K you would need to have more than $ 114K in equity ( I say more because you would have to include the extra required for closing costs - including Stamp Duty if required and conveyancing costs in addition to the $ 114K ) to keep your LVR to 80 % or below and avoiding LMI . ( 20 % of $ 570K = $ 114K ) . So if you want to avoid paying LMI you will need an additional $ 50K or so at least . Even if you went for a LVR of 95 % on the new property you would still need $ 69K plus closing costs , so you are still a bit short . You would also have to pay LMI on the new mortgage and you would be taking on a lot of extra risk , especially if interest rates rise ( as they are likely to in 12 to 18 months time ) , you lost your job or some other emergency came up . You are better off waiting some time before purchasing a second property , allowing your equity to grow further and for you to save up a bit more . You may want to open up an offset account linked to your loan account ( if you have n't already ) so that any additional savings you have in the offset account reduces the interest payable on your mortgage . When you are ready to purchase a second property allow an additional 2-3 % in your serviceability calculations on top of the mortgage interest rates you get , so that you do n't get into trouble when interest rates do go up , or if you are on a fixed rate , when your fixed period ends and the variable at the time is higher than your fixed rate .
A 529 has a custodian and beneficiary . If , say , my Mom is custodian and my daughter the beneficiary , neither my daughter , my wife , nor I can access this account . In fact , if my daughter chooses not to attend college , Mom can change beneficiaries . So , a 529 is ideal for what you have described . By the way , your wife may have broken the law . Money in your child 's name/SSN can not simply be taken from the account at a parent 's whim . You have every right to ask for an accounting of that money and insist she return it to your child 's account . Edit - I was going to add that UTMA money may only be spent for the benefit of the child , and not for day to day items , food , clothing , etc. . The article <URL> provides a bit of support to my position on that .
Roth IRAs divide your withdrawal into 3 categories : Contributions , Conversions , and Earnings . This is significant , because each have different tax consequences and the order of withdrawal is dictated by tax law . Contributions - First to be withdrawn . This is the money you invested and has already had taxes paid on it . No taxes will need to be paid on it . Conversions - Second to be withdrawn . This is money converted from a traditional IRA and does sound like it applies in your question . Earnings - Last to be withdrawn . This is investment gain made from contributions and conversions . You can withdraw your contributions in less than 5 years for any reason ( home buyer or not ) . You can not withdraw your conversions or earnings without waiting 5 years unless you pay the 10 % penalty . The home buyer exemption is only after the 5 years are met . Further detail found on the motley fool : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> .
When you have a credit freeze , or security freeze , in place with the credit bureaus , this restricts access to your credit report . However , it does not completely prevent all access . Some situations where your credit information is still available , even with a security freeze in place are : Your existing creditors ( and debt collectors acting on their behalf ) still have access to your report . Government agencies can get the report if they have a court order , subpoena , or search warrant . Limited information is still available to potential creditors for " pre-screened " offers . When a company obtains information about you this way ( which is normally done in large groups of people ) , it appears as an inquiry on your credit report . This is most likely what has happened to you . The third one is confusing . You would think that a security freeze would prevent this , but no . In order to prevent pre-screened offer companies from obtaining any information about you , you need to opt-out separately , which you can do online at <URL> * . To answer the second part of your question , I 'm not aware of a way to erase your credit report completely . When you take out a loan , one of the things you agree to is the creditor 's right to add to your credit report . However , closed accounts drop off your credit report after 10 years , so if you wait long enough you 'll have an empty report . More information from the FTC : <URL> <URL> * Note : When you opt out of the prescreen offers online , the opting out is only valid for 5 years ( for your convenience , of course ) . If you want to make it permanent , opt out online , then fill out a " Permanent Opt-Out Election " form , and mail it in .
Once all the papers are signed , quitting your job will not have any consequences for the mortgage as long as you make all the payments on time . If you made any false statements when applying for the mortgage it 's possible that the mortgage could be nullified after it closes , but otherwise , it 's your obligation , and until you stop meeting that obligation ( including any other agreements you made like keeping it insured and not letting it fall into disrepair ) no one is going to bother you .
One of the reasons , apart from historical , is that different people have different tax liabilities which the employer may not be aware of . For example , in the US we do n't pay taxes in source on investment income , and there are many credits and deductions that we ca n't take . So if I have a child and some interest income from my savings account - employer 's withholding will not match my actual tax liability . There are credits for children , additional taxes for the interest , and the actual tax brackets vary based on my marital status and filing options I chose . So even the same family of two people married will pay different amounts in taxes if they chose to file separate tax returns for each , than if they chose to file jointly on one tax return . For anyone who 've lived anywhere else , like you and me , this system is ridiculously complex and inefficient , but for Americans - that works . Mainly for the reason of not knowing anything better , and more importantly - not wanting to know .
It is a very bad idea in almost all circumstances to borrow/withdraw from an IRA ( or other retirement account ) for a down payment on a house and I would only suggest it as a last resort . Even as a last resort it is a bad idea , and I 'd suggest you are n't ready to buy a house until you have enough non-retirement money to do the deal . In your case you have money in savings , you should absolutely do that . If you do n't feel comfortable using your emergency fund , you need to keep saving until you can afford to buy a house . Your retirement fund is n't a piggy bank for when you need money now , it is a payment you make to keep a decent lifestyle later in life . When you are retired your options for alternate income streams will be much more limited . The biggest hidden cost is the opportunity cost of not having that money working for you . Your final retirement balance is very likely ( when done correctly ) going to be mostly comprised of the return on your investment more so than the money you put in . While you are young your greatest asset is time for that money to grow , do n't throw that away when you have viable options ! The other problem , if you are talking about an employer plan ( 401K/Roth ) is that if you lose your job you will have 60-90 days to pay back the loan or it will be considered a distribution and subject to taxes plus a 10 % early withdrawal penalty . This happened to a bunch of my friends from work when our company got bought by another company forcing them to close the old 401K plan and transfer to the new one . Short version : Do n't touch retirement money for non-retirement things unless it is a life/death emergency and you have no other options .
If you refer to <URL> , then yes - if Juan DaSilva chooses to be treated as resident , then both Seor and Seora DaSilva will be taxed as residents for the whole year . Note that if Seor DaSilva is single , or married to another Seor DaSilva - then he can not make the choice . It can help the taxpayer if the worldwide income is the same as the US income , but they want to itemize deductions . It can also help with taxes in their home country , if they 're taxed as residents in the US ( depending on the local laws and treaties ) . correction Reading your comment I see that you 're referring to a different portion . Yes , in this case Seor DaSilva will only pay on the world-wide income for the part of the year he considers to be resident . This is for people in transition from non-residency to residency . This might not always be good for the taxpayer , but in some cases it might be beneficial . Partial resident can not claim standard deduction , but can itemize , and if there 's a lot to itemize it might be beneficial . The choice is available to those who 're definitely going to be residents for tax purposes the next year .
The " $ 1000 is no money at all " people are amusing me . Way back in the mists of time , a very young me invested on the order of ~ $ 500 in a struggling electronics manufacturer I had a fondness for . An emotional investment , not much money , but enough that I could get a feel for what it was like owning stock in something . That stock 's symbol was AAPL . This is admittedly a rare outcome , but $ 1000 invested over the long term is n't not worth doing . If for no other reason then when the OP has " real " money , he 'll have X + $ 1000 invested rather than X , assuming 0 % return , which I doubt . It 's a small enough amount that there are special considerations , but it 's a solid opportunity for learning how the market works , and making a little money . Anyway , my advice to the OP is as follows : All of this assumes you have enough money to live on , and this $ 1000 is indeed " play money " . If you need this money for books , rent , etc. put it in a savings account . Putting $ 1000 into the market , and then needing to tap high interest credit card debt to make ends meet is losing money . Consider opening a Roth IRA . If you 've already got the money , you 've already been taxed on it , and as a non-working student , your tax rate is as low as its likely going to be . Consider how much risk you 're willing to shoulder . Are you alright with having $ 0 at the end of all this ? Take a look at index ETFs and mutual funds . While these do n't have a spectacular return , at least recently , the market as of Fall 2011 is unusually highly correlated , which means it 's unlikely that you 'll do much worse or staggeringly better unless you 're lucky . Pay special attention to commissions and expenses with these , as they can eat into your returns , which will admittedly be small . An $ 10 commission on a $ 10,000 investment is much less of a big deal than it is on a $ 1,000 investment . Some discount brokerages even have mutual funds that are themselves baskets of index funds ( instant diversification ) , and if you 're a client with them , these have low minimum investments and fairly small fees , which are properties you 're looking for . Which brings me to the last bit . Whatever you end up doing , hold it . Actively trading with as little money as you have will devour your returns with transaction fees .
To give up your Social Security number , you would probably have to renounce your citizenship , since merely leaving the United States , becoming a permanent expatriate , etc. would n't be enough . Paying Social Security taxes is mandatory , however . Even if your income exceeds the means testing limits , you are still required to pay Social security ( FICA ) taxes on the income that falls beneath it . That being said , there are several groups that are exempt from paying Social Security taxes , based on what I can scrounge up through online searching . College students who work under the Federal Work Study program . <URL> State or local government workers ( like teachers , city workers , police , firefighters , etc. ) hired before March 31 , 1986 and who participate in their employers ' alternative retirement systems . Self-employed workers with with yearly net earnings less than $ 400 Ministers , members of certain religious orders , and Christian Science practitioners may file <URL> to exempt themselves from self-employment taxes , including FICA taxes . The picture is more complicated than this , however ( see below ) . All members of certain religious groups , like the Amish , Mennonites , etc. . <URL> Election workers earning $ 1,000 or less a year . Minor children with earnings from household work but for whom household work is not their principal occupation . If you are n't part of one of these groups or you joined them after already being enrolled in the Social Security system ( i.e. paid FICA taxes , etc. ) , you do n't have to take Social Security payments , but you are not exempt from FICA payroll taxes . This means that you ca n't simply become Amish and be exempt if you 've already paid into the system . Many of these answers were listed <URL> , but the only stated source is " Wikipedia , " so take it with a grain of salt . I 've tried to provide other sources where I could . Ministers/religious officials I mentioned that the situation with ministers and/or religious officials is more complicated . Among other things , these officials need to certify that they are religiously opposed to receiving public insurance benefits and they have to file by a certain deadline soon after earning a certain amount as a minister . <URL> , if you file this exemption and choose/chose to revoke it later on , e.g. by filing IRS Form 2031 , during the short time windows when this is possible , you 're no longer eligible to file for another exemption . Once you revoke your exemption , you wo n't get another one . Also note that this opt-out only applies to income earned as part of your ministry . For non-ministerial income , you 're still required to pay FICA taxes even if you follow the procedure ( s ) above . If you do opt-out Clearly , opting out of the Social Security is n't easy , or even feasible , for many people , but if you are outside the system , common sense dictates that you should insure yourself against risks that would usually be covered , at least in part , by Social Security . Dave Ramsey maintains a <URL> that he recommends ministers and religious officials who opt out of the Social Security system should purchase , but the rationale applies to anyone who is n't part of the system . Term life insurance that covers 10x your annual income . Normally , your spouse or dependents will receive a <URL> upon your death , but if you opt-out , your family does n't have this option . Since the death benefit is a pittance ( $ 255 ) , however , you may want life insurance regardless of your participation in Social Security . Long-term disability insurance . If you become disabled , you wo n't receive disability benefits , so you 'll may want insurance to cover this risk . Long-term care insurance . Similar to disability insurance , you may want additional income to cover you in case you require long-term care , and <URL> is n't enough . Other retirement savings . If you 're not going to be paying money into Social Security , it makes sense to invest that money in some form of tax-advantaged or tax-sheltered retirement account to ensure that you still have some income in retirement . You wo n't be receiving Social Security checks , but you 'll still need income . Depending on your circumstances , it 's may be a good idea to invest in some or all of these instruments anyway ( especially tax-advantaged/tax-sheltered retirement accounts ) , because Social Security does n't cover 100 % of the risks you 'll face , but that decision is highly specific to each person/family .
As an individual freelancer , you would need to maintain a book of accounts . This should show all the income you are getting , and should also list all the payments incurred . This can not only include the payments to other professionals , but also any hardware purchased , phone bills , any travel and entertainment bills directly related to the service you are offering . Once you arrive at a net profit figure , you would need to file this as your income . Consult a tax professional and he can help with how to keep the records of income and expenses . i.e. . You would need to create invoices for payments , use checks or online transfers for most payments , segregate the accounts , one account used for this professional stuff , and another for your personal stuff , etc. . In a normal course the Income Tax Department does not ask for these records , however whenever your tax returns get scrutinized on a random basis , they would ask for all the relevant documentations .
A falling $ AUD would be beneficial to exporters , and thus overall good for the economy . If the economy improves and exporters start growing profits , that means they will start to employ more people and employment will increase - and with higher employment , employees will become more confident to make purchases , including purchasing property . I feel the falling $ AUD will be beneficial for the economy and the housing market . However , what you should consider is that with an improving economy and a rising property market , it will only be a matter of time before interest rates start rising . With a lower $ AUD the RBA will be more confident in starting to increase interest rates . And increasing interest rates will have a dampening effect on the housing market . You are looking to buy a property to live in - so how long do you intend to live in and hold the property ? I would assume at least for the medium to long term . If this is your intention then why are you getting cold feet ? What you should be concerned about is that you do not overstretch on your borrowings ! Make sure you allow a buffer of 2 % to 3 % above current interest rates so that if rates do go up you can still afford the repayments . And if you get a fixed rate - then you should allow the buffer in case variable rates are higher when your fixed period is over . Regarding the doomsayers telling you that property prices are going to crash - well they were saying that in 2008 , then again in 2010 , then again in 2012 . I do n't know about you but I have seen no crash . Sure when interest rates have gone up property prices have levelled off and maybe gone down by 10 % to 15 % in some areas , but as soon as interest rates start falling again property prices start increasing again . It 's all part of the property cycle . I actually find it is a better time to buy when interest rates are higher and you can negotiate a better bargain and lower price . Then when interest rates start falling you benefit from lower repayments and increasing property prices . The only way there will be a property crash in Australia is if there was a dramatic economic downturn and unemployment rates rose to 10 % or higher . But with good economic conditions , an increasing population and low supplies of newly build housing in Australia , I see no dramatic crashes in the foreseeable future . Yes we may get periods of weakness when interest rates increase , with falls up to 15 % in some areas , but no crash of 40 % plus . As I said above , these periods of weakness actually provide opportunities to buy properties at a bit of a discount . EDIT In your comments you say you intend to buy with a monthly mortgage repayment of $ 2500 in place of your current monthly rent of $ 1800 . That means your loan amount would be somewhere around $ 550k to $ 600K . You also mention you would be taking on a 5 year fixed rate , and look to sell in about 2 years time if you can break even ( I assume that is break even on the price you bought at ) . In 2 years you would have paid $ 16,800 more on your mortgage than you would have in rent . So here are the facts : if you are looking to buy now you would be buying when properties are at their highs , if you plan to sell in 2 years time you will be selling possibly when prices have dropped , if you take on a 5 year fixed rate and plan to sell in 2 years time you may be hit with extra fees from your lender for getting out of the mortgage before the fixed period is over , you will be paying $ 700 more in mortgage repayments than rent - costing you $ 16,800 over 2 years , you will lose money on the extra required to pay the mortgage , you will lose money in buying high and selling low , and you will lose money in fees for breaking your fixed rate period early . A better strategy : do n't buy now , keep renting and save up extra money , wait for interest rates to go up and property prices to drop a bit - 5 % to 10 % - this will enable you to negotiate a better price when the market is week and vendors are desperate to sell , if you buy when interest rates are higher and you can afford the property and the repayments , then you will certainly be able to afford it when interest rates come down again , you will buy at a discount so there is more room for the price to move up when rates go down again and the market starts booming again , if you chose to live there for 2 years and then rent it out you will be able to ask for a higher rent ( when interest rates are higher there is less demand for buying property so you can usually buy cheaper , but there is more demand in renting - meaning rents will go up quicker ) , if you hold the property long term - 10 years , 15 years or more , you will build yourself an asset that has increased in price but also provides you with a net positive income each week . It will turn into an asset that you will never want to sell .
Typically related to real estate prices they mean simple interest . For example assume in 2005 a property is worth $ 100,000.00 . In 2010 that property would be worth $ 108,000.00 .
It sounds like the two best options would be to <URL> or <URL> . If there is n't much money in your SIMPLE IRA , it might make more sense to just roll it over into your 401 ( k ) so you have fewer retirement accounts to keep track of . However , if you do have a significant amount of money in the SIMPLE IRA then you may wish to take advantage of the greater freedom in investment options that IRAs offer over most 401 ( k ) plans . Keep in mind the 2-year rule for SIMPLE IRAs . You will face tax penalties if you roll it and it has n't yet been 2 years since the SIMPLE IRA was opened .
I would go for the Roth for the reasons already described by JoeTaxpayer and JohnFx . Furthermore , there are two additional things I 'd like to point out : First , income tax rates in the U.S. may , in general , rise in the future . If tax rates are expected to rise , then it makes sense to pay the tax now and not later , even if your own income level were otherwise unchanged . While guessing what tax rates might be in retirement does amount to speculation , I suggest there 's little chance of income tax rates remaining low in the U.S. , with continuing large budget deficits each year . Second , even when you select the Roth option for 100 % of your 401 ( k ) contributions , your employer 's matching contributions are still made on a pre-tax basis and will be accounted for in a pre-tax portion of the account ! This may make a decision to go 100 % Roth easier , considering you 'll have some pre-tax dollars as a hedge in case rates or your tax bracket end up actually lower in retirement . Below is a supporting reference for that second point , from <URL> , a pamphlet called " Designated Roth Accounts under a 401 ( k ) or 403 ( b ) Plan " . Here 's the relevant excerpt : Q. Can my employer make matching contributions on my designated Roth contributions ? And , can the matching contributions be allocated to my designated Roth account ? A. Yes . Your employer can make matching contributions on your designated Roth contributions . However , only an employee 's designated Roth contributions can be allocated to designated Roth accounts . The matching contributions made on account of designated Roth contributions must be allocated to a pre-tax account , just as matching contributions are on traditional , pre-tax elective contributions . [ ... ] The remainder of the pamphlet is worth reading , too .
end question
start question
Do you have to file taxes even if you did n't make any money ?
You 're essentially asking the very common " Do I Need to File a Tax Return ? " question . It 's common enough that the IRS answers it right at the beginning of the Form 1040 Instructions , and it 's answered fairly thoroughly here : <URL> There 's about 20 questions in that checklist which are mostly pretty specialized , but assuming you did n't have taxes withheld that you 'd like to get back , and did n't have any retirement income/disbursements this year , the only interesting question is this : " Were you self-employed with earnings of more than $ 400.00 ? " Sounds like your losses outweighed your profits , and assuming you had no other income , I 'd say you 're fine not filing . Ca n't really speak to state law since that can vary so much , but your state 's laws are likely similar to federal , and you can probably find a very similar answer near the beginning of the instructions of your state 's income tax form .
Is there a word for that $ 20k owed ? Trade Receivables , Accounts Receivables , or just Receivables Is there a different word for that $ 30k " hypothetical " total ? Current Assets ( Includes Inventory and other short term assets )
If you do n't know the refund amount - how exactly do you expect anything to be filed ? The CPA can not file anything on your behalf without you signing <URL> - which has the refund amount printed on it . You should have signed this form and received a copy of the tax return , otherwise - the CPA can not file anything . In case your CPA is a crook and filed your tax return without your authorization - you 'll see it on your IRS transcript . I wrote a <URL> . However , CPA doing so may very easily lose the license , so I doubt that it happened in your case . More likely than not your CPA just did n't do it on time . If it results in any penalties for you - you can demand the CPA to cover it ( but not the actual tax - that is yours ) . If you 're due refund there will be no penalties .
<URL> of what 's required to handle the reporting of tip income . To address this question specifically , here 's the relevant instructions from that post : If your allocated tips are less than what 's recorded in your daily log , and you reported your tips to your employer , then it is likely that something is wrong with your employer 's recordkeeping system . You can ask your employer to correct your W-2 . You should report the allocated tips on Form 4137 , plus any additional tips you show in your daily records .
You 're thinking that by rolling over your Roth 401 ( k ) to Roth IRA the whole amount becomes " contribution " . That is not so , you 're not losing the characteristics of the amounts within the account . The grouping rules of <URL> still apply , and you still need to separate contributions from earnings . See specifically this text in the statute : Any distribution allocated to a qualified rollover contribution under clause ( ii ) ( II ) shall be allocated first to the portion of such contribution required to be included in gross income . So no , you do not get to withdraw earnings tax free just because you rolled them over . As a general rule , when you read the IRS pub 590 - consider your rollover from Roth 401 ( k ) as if it was a roll-over from a different Roth IRA . But do consult a tax professional ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) as there are intricacies . You seem to be confused about various holding period limitations ( " 5-year rules " ) for Roth IRA . There are two : You can not have qualified distributions unless you had the Roth IRA for at least 5 years . You can not withdraw earnings on amounts from conversions without penalty ( additional 10 % ) within the first 5 years of conversion . These are two separate and unrelated limitations . Since you 're talking about Roth 401 ( k ) roll-over - the second one does n't apply , since you did n't do any conversion . The first one does . See <URL> for in-depth discussion on this . In any case , you pay tax ( with or without the additional 10 % penalty ) on distribution attributed to earnings , unless it is qualified distribution .
IRS does n't require 1099 to be filed for payments of less than $ 10 . It is , however , taxable income . The fact that 1099 was n't filed with the IRS does n't affect your tax liabilities . If for example you have a private loan ( say to a family member ) and get paid interest on it , the payer will also probably not file 1099-INT with the IRS . However the interest you 're being paid is taxable income to you and should be reported on Schedule B.
No , certainly not , with respect to what you wrote about the payroll contributions . You 're misunderstanding calculation and the meaning of the $ 53,600 " maximum amount " , which is but one input to the calculation that limits the pensionable earnings ( salary ) amount before a contribution rate is applied to those pensionable earnings to determine contributions . The employee and the employer each pay a percentage of salary ( 4.95 % ) into CPP , on the amount of pensionable earnings exceeding the basic exemption amount ( $ 3500 , constant ) and not exceeding the year 's maximum pensionable earnings ( $ 53,600 in 2015 , varying each year as it is indexed for average wage growth . ) So , a full-time employee earning $ 100K per year will pay in annual CPP contributions , and their employer the same ( 100 % match ) . The two contributions combined equal what a self-employed individual would pay into CPP for pensionable earnings ( salary , but not dividends ) . The calculation for employees and self-employed individuals is the same -- the principal difference is that somebody who is self-employed must pay both the employee portion ( 4.95 % ) and the employer portion ( also 4.95 % ) of the CPP contributions , for a total 9.9 % on their pensionable earnings exceeding $ 3,500 but not exceeding $ 53,600 . After all , somebody who works for their own company is both the employee and employer . Service Canada makes it very clear <URL> . Quoting : If you have an employer , you pay half the required contributions and your employer pays the other half . If you are self-employed , you make the whole contribution . The retirement pension benefit calculation is also identical . Years of self-employment pensionable earnings are not worth any more or any less than years of regular pensionable earnings from employment . Here 's a great article on estimating your CPP benefits : <URL> . The author of that article worked for Service Canada and is a CPP expert . Finally , the real ( and only ) advantage that self-employed individuals that work through their own corporation have with respect to CPP is that they can elect , in any given year , to take more compensation as dividend income instead of as salary . Dividends are n't subject to CPP contributions , and so less can be paid into CPP than someone who ca n't structure their compensation that way . Yet , since the CPP retirement pension calculation drops some low earnings years from the earnings history , a self-employed individual who takes lower salaries from time to time ( and pays less into CPP in those years ) could still end up with an unreduced pension -- provided they plan accordingly .
Short Answer : You 're going to end up paying taxes on it . Despite the home being your primary residence , you do n't meet the ownership test , and it is n't noted that you have had a change in employment , health , or other unforeseen circumstances that are " forcing " you to sell . Otherwise , you could qualify for a reduced maximum exclusion that might allow you to walk away without owing taxes , or with a reduced tax bill . You ca n't even do a 1031 exchange to re-invest into a new primary residence . You should check with a tax professional to see what adjustments you can make to the cost basis of the property to minimize your reported net profits . EDIT : Ownership and Use Tests During the 5-year period prior to the sale , you must have : Owned the house for at least 2 years , and lived in the house as your main home for at least 2 years . These periods do not necessarily have to coincide ( You do n't to live in it as your main house for 2 consecutive years , just 2 years worth of time of the last 5 ) .
Yes , you will need to deposit the funds into your HSA , then withdraw them to reimburse yourself for the expenses . The tax deduction comes when you contribute ( deposit ) to your HSA . If you do not deposit the money there , you will not be able to claim the deduction . Your HSA provider reports the amount of your contributions to the IRS , so the amount you say you contribute to your HSA on your tax return has to match what your HSA provider reports . When you deposit the money to your HSA , you need to explicitly tell your provider that the contribution is for tax year 2014 . The reason is that you want to make sure that they report the amount of your 2014 contributions to the IRS correctly . After you 've deposited the amount into your HSA , you can withdraw it to reimburse yourself for an eligible medical expense . In order to be eligible , it needs to be an expense that was incurred while you had the HSA in place . If you had your HSA account in place before you paid the expense , no problem . But if you set up the HSA account after you paid for the expense , you might be out of luck . The distribution ( withdrawal ) will be a part of tax year 2015 , and you 'll see this amount included as part of the gross distributions on your 1099-SA form next year . When I first set up my HSA , I did n't have any extra money to fund the HSA , so I handled it just like you are talking about . I would wait until I had a medical bill , then deposit the amount I needed into my HSA and withdraw it back out to pay the bill .
Yes , you can make the election to file your LLC as an S-Corp , and Turbo Tax Business can help you with the S-Corp business return . You need to make sure you 're set up correctly and there are a lot of things to be aware of . For example , the whole " reasonable salary " thing is a can of worms . So while the answer to your question is " yes , it 's manageable , you can do it on your own , " it might be worthwhile to have a professional help you the first year , make sure it 's set up right , and then you can do it on your own in subsequent years .
It 's not so much about time but about intent . If your intent is to move there permanently , it would be when you arrive in the state for the purposes of living there ( i.e. not from a while before that when you went to check a place out or for an interview ) . I believe that most ( if not all ) states expect you to get a Driver 's License from that state within 30-days of moving there . Something like a Driver 's License or State ID would be proof of your residency . These things vary greatly from state to state , so you 'd have to research particular states . Or find someone who 's done that already . A bit of searching , specifically for Texas , brought me to this <URL> : If you / he wish to establish residency here -- here being Texas -- get a Texas Driver 's License and Voter Registration here . Government issued ID with a Texas address is pretty much bulletproof defense against being found to be a resident of elsewhere . Your battle , if there is one , will not be with Texas , but with your present home of record state and/or local government if there are income taxes associated with having been a resident there during the tax year . Which brings up the other question : You would need to make sure that California does not have some provision that would cause you issues . ( This is n't so much a case of income from a company in the state as it about capital gains , but it is still prudent to check . )
If you open a brokerage account , it 's certain that at the END of the calendar year a 1099-INT or 1099-DIV or related tax document will likely be sent to the IRS . What happens after that point is unknown . If you are asking if you will get " caught " by opening a brokerage account , no one here can answer that question . Based on the change in banking/securities laws after 9/11 there are many more reporting burdens that the brokerages and banks follow . If you are a US citizen , even if you are living abroad , as you already know <URL> ( even though most likely you will owe no tax ) . Whether you open a brokerage account or not , it wo n't change that obligation . The obligation is born out of your citizenship , not your activities in the US .
A non-deductible IRA contribution gives you the same sort of benefit as a deductible contribution does , just less of it . In all cases , you are postponing paying taxes on some income until you withdraw it years later . This postponement : Postpones taxes on the income ( e.g. interest ) earned on your principle over the years . This is beneficial because of the following aspects . Provides income on the postponed taxes over those years . This interest income is income you would not have otherwise ever received . Allows the income to be taxed at your retirement tax bracket rather than the current tax bracket . This might be lower if your retirement income is lower and/or tax rates are lower , but might be higher if the opposite holds . ( Also , one gets no benefit from capital gains rates on IRA-generated income . ) Allows the postponed taxes to be paid in " cheaper " dollars if inflation has occurred over the years . The difference is that with a non-deductible IRA contribution one is not postponing a large chunk of current-year taxes , and so does not gain the above benefits on those taxes . One only gains on the taxes that are postponed on the income which accumulates inside the IRA . ( With a non-deductible contribution , one does not pay taxes on the contribution a second time when the contribution is withdrawn during retirement , if one keeps proper records . )
401 ( k ) withdrawals - early or otherwise - are not subject to FICA or Medicare taxes . That 's because <URL> when they were contributed . ( And of course , the earnings from the 401 ( k ) contributions are not earned income and thus are not subject to payroll taxes for that reason . ) While 401 ( k ) contributions are exempt from federal ( and generally state ) income taxes , they are n't exempt from payroll taxes - and as such , you 'll see two separate amounts on your W2 and paystub if you contributed : the amount that is subject to those taxes , and the amount that is subject to income tax . So , no , you do n't have to pay payroll ( FICA , Social Security ) taxes on your early withdrawal . As for the penalty , that is basically an extra tax - so if you withdraw $ 1000 , you pay income tax at your marginal rate plus 10 % penalty ; if your marginal rate is 25 % [ and you 're not moving across a rate step boundary ] , you will pay .
Each company gets to select which pension provider ( s ) they will deal with . You can certainly ask your company to consider paying into a different pension but you ca n't force them to . Many/most companies will say no since they do n't want the overhead of dealing with more than one provider , although I did once work for a company that had a policy of paying into whatever pension each employee nominated . If you move to another employer then you will be auto-enrolled in their choice of provider unless you opt-out . You may be able to transfer your pension savings from your old employer 's scheme to the new one , but this is not currently guaranteed to be possible . If you ca n't transfer , or choose not to , then the money in your old employer 's scheme will stay there being invested according to your choices . Thus over your working life you may accumulate savings in multiple pension schemes ( and yes , it 's on you to keep track of this ) .
The mechanism of supply and demand is imperfect . Producers do n't know exactly how many purchasers/consumers for a good there are . Some goods , by their nature , are in short supply , and some are plentiful . The process of price discovery is one where ( in a nominally free market ) producers and purchasers make offers and counter-offers to assess what the price should be . As they do this the historical price changes , usually floating around some long-term average . As it goes up , we experience inflation . As it goes down , deflation . However , there is n't a fixed supply of producers and purchasers , so as new ones arrive and old ones leave , this too has an impact on supply and prices . Money ( either in electronic or physical form ) needs to be available to reflect the transactions and underpin the economy . Most central banks ( at least in more established economies ) aim for inflation of 2-4 % by controlling the availability of money and the cost of borrowing new money . There are numerous ways they can do this ( printing , issuing bonds , etc. ) . The reason one wants some degree of inflation is because employees will never accept a pay cut even when one would significantly improve the overall economy . Companies often decrease their prices in order to match lower demand , but employees do n't usually accept decreased wages for decreased labour demand . A nominal degree of overall money inflation therefore solves this problem . Employees who get a below-inflation wage increase are actually getting a wage cut . Supply and demand must be matched and some inflation is the inevitable consequence of this .
In other words , math . All the other answers are great , but I thought I might add something concrete to clarify slightly . Consider a counterexample . Suppose I borrow $ 120000 at 1 % / month interest ( I know mortgages are usually priced with annual rates , but this will make the math simpler ) . Further suppose that I want to pay a fixed amount of principal each month , rather than a fixed payment . Let 's say we want to pay off the loan in 10 years ( 120 months ) , so we have a fixed principal payment of $ 1000/month . So what 's the interest for month 1 ? One percent of $ 120K is $ 1200 , so your total payment will be $ 2200 . The second month , the interest will be on $ 119K , so your payment will be $ 2190 . And so on , until the last month you will be paying $ 1010 . So , the amount of interest you pay each month declines , as does your monthly payment . But for most people , paying big payments at the beginning and smaller ones toward the end is completely backwards , since most of us earn more as we progress in our careers . Sixteen years after I took out a mortgage with a $ 1300/month payment , I find it fairly easy to pay , although it was a bit challenging to our cash flow initially . The standard amortization requires a fixed payment each month , but the interest amount still has to decline as the principal declines . That means the amount of principal paid must increase as you go along .
The one I 've seen recommended by Clark Howard is <URL> , takes your last name , and the state you want to search in , you can also add first name , but its optional .
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
Short answer : it 's complicated . The UK govt pages on foreign income are probably your best starting point : <URL> As you can see , it depends on your precise residence status here . ( There is a tax treaty between the UK and the US so you would n't be double taxed on the income either way . But there might still be reporting obligations ) .
end question
start question
Can Homeowners insurance be cancelled for non-removal of tree debris ?
The state insurance regulation office ( Florida ) has told her that this is totally within their right to do so . Respectfully , mom contacted her state regulatory agency , and received an answer , but you 're here to seek an alternate view ? The downed tree is an <URL> . If I were 8 again , I 'd love to come play on it , fall off , break my ankle and sue mom . But , the insurance company does n't need to spell this out , they just want your mom to pay the couple hundred bucks to remove it . Even in Florida , people sell cordwood . Depending what kind of tree that was , someone might be happy to come harvest it at no cost . They 'll sell the firewood . Just a thought .
There 's a couple of nuances to bear in mind . If your employer is subject to COBRA requirements , as Ben Miller mentions , you 'll be able to continue your coverage via COBRA as long as there was no gross misconduct . Continuation coverage must be continuous , you ca n't have a break in coverage . ( e.g. if you lose coverage June 30 , you can not elect to have COBRA begin 8/1 ) You 'll pay the full gross premium , not just your contribution , plus an up to 2 % administrative fee . ( It would n't surprise me if your monthly COBRA premium is several hundred dollars ) If your current employer offers multiple medical plan options you will only be offered continuation under your currently elected plan option . You can continue your coverage via COBRA even if you are eligible for a new employer 's plan . But , if you waive your new employer 's coverage when it 's offered to you , you will not be able to enroll in your new employer 's plan until the next open enrollment or your next qualifying event . You have 63 days from your coverage loss date or your date of COBRA notification , whichever is later , to actually elect COBRA continuation . It 's pretty common to wait until you actually need the coverage to make the election . Though do n't wait until too close to the deadline . Understand the COBRA offering before you make your decision . The price is likely to carry some sticker shock . If possible , understand your new employer 's plan before making your decision . It may actually be advantageous to you to walk away from the deductible you 've paid to take advantage of your new employer 's plan . If you 're on an HDHP with an HSA account , it may also be in your best interest to load up that HSA account with tax-free money while you 're still enrolled in the HDHP . You can spend HSA funds on qualified expenses but you can only contribute to it while you 're enrolled in a qualified HDHP . Depending on your age it may even be financially advantageous to buy yourself a $ 0 deductible gold or platinum individual plan as you transition from one employer to the next .
Yes it is legal , in fact according to <URL> , foreign investors are the largest holders of UK shares ( as of 2008 ) . Investors from outside the UK owned 41.5 per cent of shares listed on the London Stock Exchange at the end of 2008 , up from 40.0 per cent at end of 2006 , according to the latest Office for National Statistics report on share ownership .
I would suggest to buy your own printer , and calculate the cost for a page including the wear to the printer . Then either deduce these printing expenses , or ask the charity to reimburse you . This is not much different than when you would go to a copyshop , those easily charge 10-30c per page , with your own printer you can probably get it around 5-10c per page , including paper , toner , drum , and amortization . The advantage is that when you do use the printer for other purposes , you wont get into any problems with who owns the printer or deductions .
While the chance of a plane crash is very low , and the insurance one buys for a two day trip very overpriced for the risk , I always hear " tell that to the families of flt xxx that crashed last week . " So , I understand your request . Life insurance is tough . You usually have to die to collect . A complete disability or long term illness is n't enough . This is one of those times I suggest talking to an insurance agent , both medical and life . Explain your intention , as it 's best to be honest . If I buy life insurance , there may be some exclusions or waiting period , after all , a suicidal person may very well have the thought to first buy a huge policy for his family . By explaining the reason and timing of your purchase you can make sure you have the right product . ( by the way , I wish you well , it 's a kind , amazing , thing you are about to do . )
The FDIC is pretty confident about them being legit . <URL> ( type in Bank Of The Sierra in the name field and search on that ) You got to realize how much money they will make if you use them per the agreement . Every credit card / debit transaction gets them some cash . <URL> even on debit cards . Then there is a flat fee the merchant pays for accepting the credit card between .25 and .50 per transaction . Even at 12 transactions a month , the bank is looking at making around $ 6/month . Probably more because who uses a debit card just 12 times a month . It would be convenient for most people to juse use it all the time . Does 4.09 % APY beat $ 6/month ? You would have to keep a balance of <URL> to cost more than you earn . And if you keep more than $ 2k in the account , they have other ways to make money off of you . I would also assume they make money on the bill pay and direct deposit side of things , but I ca n't speak for certain about that . Bottom line is this seems like a good deal to attract customers , they would rather make a bit less profit then BofA to grow their business . They are betting their offer restrictions will change your habits and make you more profitable to them .
The rule of thumb ( and that is also what the IRS say in the link Chris posted in the comment ) is that if the institution is eligible for FAFSA - the tuition qualifies for the credits . The quote from <URL> : Eligible educational institution . An eligible educational institution is any college , university , vocational school , or other postsecondary educational institution eligible to participate in a student aid program administered by the U.S. Department of Education . It includes virtually all accredited public , nonprofit , and proprietary ( privately owned profit-making ) postsecondary institutions . The educational institution should be able to tell you if it is an eligible educational institution . To the best of my knowledge , none of the options you mentioned qualify for FAFSA ( one requirement would be accreditation , which none of the MOOCs have , IIRC ) .
Insurance on something that you could replace out of your own pocket is almost always not worth it . If you have the discipline to put $ 1,000 in a savings account , and only use that to replace the phone , you 'll be ahead , plus you 'll also get to pocket the interest .
This is generally a legal question , and depends on the laws of your state ( where you were insured , not where you live now ) , and the contract ( policy ) you had with your insurer . Generally , insurance policies include provisions where you are required to co-operate with the insurer in order for insurer to defend you . This includes depositions and court appearances . Some policies include compensation for time , others do n't , you 'll need to look into your policy for details . Waivers are granted by the court , not by the insurer , and since you 're the one being sued I 'd guess ( not being a lawyer or a legal professional of any kind ) that it would be in your best interests to do everything in your defense . You need to remember that insurance policy is not a " send and forget " thing . You have to work with them . They 're defending you , it 's your $ 70K on the line , and if you do not help them - they 'll just leave you hanging there on your own .
Yes , absolutely . Consider Microsoft , Updated Jan. 17 , 2003 11:59 p.m. ET Software giant Microsoft Corp. , finally bowing to mounting pressure to return some of its huge cash hoard to investors , said it will begin paying a regular annual dividend to shareholders . From <URL> . Thus , for the years prior to 2003 , the company did n't pay dividends but changed that . There can also be some special one-time dividends as Microsoft did the following year according to the <URL> : The $ 32 billion one-time dividend payment , which comes to $ 3 for each share of Microsoft stock , could be a measurable stimulus to the U.S. economy -- and is expected to arrive just in time for holiday shopping . Course companies can also reduce to stop dividends as well .
IANAL , nor am I a financial professional . However , I 've just looked into this because of a relative 's death , and I have minor children . I am in the US . First , a named beneficiary on many accounts means that any proceeds are kept out of the estate and do not have to go through probate . That usually means that they 're available much more quickly . Second , a beneficiary statement trumps a will . The account may pay out long before a will is even filed with the probate court . Third , you can name a trust as the beneficiary . In this case , because you want to make sure the money goes to your children , that 's likely your best option .
Quoted from <URL> Personal injury protection ( or PIP , for short ) is a type of medical payments coverage added on to an auto > insurance policy that provides you , the policyholder -- as well as your passengers , relatives living in your home , > and drivers authorized to operate your vehicle -- with medical coverage for immediate and subsequent injuries > sustained during an auto accident . PIP also covers you and your family if you 're injured in a car accident while in someone else 's vehicle and , in > some states , if you 're struck by a vehicle while you 're a pedestrian . So if everyone you are driving with is covered by Personal Health Insurance , you may not need to go for this .
My experience is with Carnival Cruise lines . It may be different on other lines . The two biggest things that will run up your tab are drinks and shore excursions . Drinks : Expect to pay $ 2 - $ 4 for a beer or coke , and $ 7 - $ 12 for a mixed drink . You can often buy a " Fountain card " or something like that that is a fixed price for sodas throughout the cruise . Probably a good deal if you are a big soda drinker or are with kids . You get juice , iced tea and water at no charge . Oh yeah , and they add an automatic tip on every drink . I 'm sure you could ask them to take the tip off , but you 'd look like a tool for doing it considering the ( mostly ) Phillipinos who serve you drinks are probably working 16 hour days for peanuts . Shore Excursions : These can really add up . You could easily double the price of your cruise if you do a lot of the higher end ones . You can usually save a ton of money by not booking them through the cruise ship and just pre-arranging them through the internet or booking them at the kiosks that are inevitably right next to the dock at each port . The cruise director will tell you all sorts of scary stories to dissuade you from doing this , but it is mostly bunk . Often the cruise ship goes through the exact same tour companies and they add as much as a 2-3x markup . The Fancy Dining option : There is usually a high-end restaurant that you need reservations for and charges a $ 25 - $ 30/person . I never bother with them . The regular dining options are good enough for me . But if you are a surf &amp; turf aficionado you might want to budget for that . Internet is super expensive , around 70 cents a minute if I recall . You can buy bulk minutes , but it is n't that much cheaper . You are better off just bringing a laptop or smartphone and using them in ports . I had no trouble finding free wifi at most ports . Cell Phone : Danger Will Robinson ! Your cell phone will work on-board , but be prepared for a huge bill when you get back . I STRONGLY suggest turning off your phone on board or at least disabling the ability to receive calls and text messages . You can passively run up a bill that way . Tips : This is one thing I like about cruises . They just add about $ 10/day/person to your bill for tips and there is an option at the end of the cruise to add to that tip for the room steward , maitre 'd , etc. . There is absolutely no pressure at all to add to that tip , i.e. there is no one standing with their palm out . I never minded tipping for service , I always just hated having to carry cash around to do it . They make this process very easy on board . You really do n't need to have cash on board at all . Bottom Line : I tend to buy at least a few drinks/day and find my own shore excursions . With a few souvenirs thrown in here and there I typically spend about 50 % of the cruise price in extras per person .
Life Insurance is valid anywhere in the world irrespective of where you stay or where you die . Medical insurance on the other hand is bound by geography . IE general medical policies issued in India are valid only within India for treatment . So you can develop the condition anywhere , but you need to be treated in India in order to get cover under the policy . This is because the premium charged is less as the medical expenses in India are less say compared to US or Europe . Hence if you are travelling outside India you need to take a seperate Overseas Travel Insurance that covers ; - Medical Cover - Loss of Luggage due to Transit - Delayed flights etc So the policy is in effect from the time you cross Indian Immegration . It is irrespective of the mode of travel . I do not think in India we have a regular Travel Insurance for domestic travel .
I can come up with a case . Line 22 of form 1040 is the first line where you add up your income , and this is called " total income " . However , some of the lines that sum into this can be reported as losses ( negative numbers ) in the total income : rows 12 , 13 , 14 , 17 , 18 , and 21 . Keep an eye on 17 ( rental income/loss ) and 21 ( other income ) Line 37/38 is the AGI calculation . This is line 22 with 0 or positive values subtracted . Line 37 is always less than or equal to Line 22 , so : Short story : " AGI " is always less than or equal to " total income " . Form 8582 introduces MAGI on line 7 , referring to instructions to calculate . Most of the exclusions are from row 23-36 ( the positive numbers subtracted from AGI ) . However , it also excludes rental losses , which could be a negative number ( from row 17 ) added into row 22 . There is something of a race condition in whether or not the real estate losses can actually be claimed ( depending on if you qualify as a so-called " active participant " , if the losses are less than $ 25,000 and if the MAGI as calculated is greater than $ 100,000 , with a series of prorating calculations to determine the allowable loss . Nevertheless , Form 8582 , line 7 ( modified adjusted gross income ) can be greater than 1040 , line 22 ( total income ) if there is a loss in 1040 , line 17 ( real estate income/loss ) . Short story : If you have a large rental income loss , you could have MAGI greater than " total income " . As a bonus consideration , Form 6251 , line 28 introduces " alternative minimum taxable income " as a sum . This calculation starts from the AGI , and adds back to total income certain expenses that could have been included in Schedule C or Schedule E ( part of the total in 1040 , line 12 or 17 ) , and certain categories of other income in form 1040 , line 21 . So by adding back in certain expenses , it 's possible that alternative minimum taxable income exceeds total income from 1040 , line 22 . Short story : if you are a mining or petroleum explorer , had a large quantity of investment expenses , had a partnership that reported a loss , or otherwise had specific types of expenses , you may find you have an " alternative minimum taxable income " greater than " total income "
You should fund the 401 ( k ) and get the 4 % matching because it 's free money . When you leave the US , patience is a virtue to get the money penalty-free : Rollover to an IRA . Take " <URL> " for 5 years or until age 591/2 , whichever is longer , to avoid the 10 % penalty . A long payout time for someone starting out , but penalty-free . Or you can take the 10 % penalty and take out the money all at once . You 'll still owe income tax in either case , something to keep in mind if an early withdrawal would put you into a higher tax bracket . Also see this article : <URL> Another thing to keep in mind is that you never know what might happen -- you could fall in love with the US ( or someone in the US , [ smiley face ] ) , apply for residency , decide to stay a long time , and that 401 ( k ) with the 4 % matching might turn out to have been a very nice thing when you retire .
Roth distributions will not count against your income , since contributions have already been taxed , and earnings are not taxable . If you have $ 1,000,000 in your Roth , you can withdraw it all as a lump sum , tax-free ( assuming penalty-free withdrawal ) . Traditional 401K/IRA distributions count as income . You asked what bracket these distributions are " applied against " , but this is not really the way the tax system works . Your distribution income gets combined with your other forms of income , minus credits , deductions , etc. to come up with your Taxable Income , which is used to determine how much tax you pay . That 's a highly simplified explanation -- I think a full discussion of the federal tax system might be too much for this question , but reading up on <URL> should help . The question of the benefits of Roth vs. Traditional is also a very complex question/calculation , and involves a slew of inputs , many of which are purely speculative ( e.g. expected federal tax rate in 30 years ) .
They will include the rental income into the calculation . They do n't give you a 100 % credit for the income because they have to factor that you might have a gap between tenants . Years ago they only credited me with 66 % of the expected monthly income . Example : $ 600 Principal , Interest , Taxes , Insurance , Condo Fee $ 400 Rent credit ( 2/3 of the $ 600 in rent I charged the tenant ) Resulting in an expected loss of $ 200 a month . This expense was then supposed to come from the 10 % of my income that was allocated for monthly non-principal mortgage loans , e.g student loan , auto loan , credit card debt ...
In the old days , a well-written mortgage was based on the mortgage and property tax being less than 28 % of one 's gross income , and total debt including these , no more than 36 % . A 20 % downpayment was required . I dare say that if these rules had been followed , the bubble would not have occurred , and had it still occurred it would not have been as severe . Let 's look at that 28 % number . A $ 60K income gives you $ 1400/mo for the mortgage and property tax . At 5 % , a $ 200K loan ( 30 yr fixed ) is $ 1074 . That leaves $ 326 x 12 = $ 3912 for taxes , more than enough in most towns . So , in conclusion , you can get a mortgage of just over 3X your income and stay within the guidelines if you put that nice downpayment . I am a fan of only going 2X , a $ 135K mortgage . Update - The rates are lower , in 2013 we still see the 30 year as low as 4 % . The same $ 1074 payment will support a $ 225K loan .
Stop watching . When I first got a job where I could log in to a website and view accounts , I did so pretty heavily for a few months . Typically there is n't any harm , but there are downsides ; you might be more tempted to trade or act on a rumor . You simply have more opportunity to act on a whim if you are logged in to your account . So stop watching . I have will power issues , so I ca n't have too much junk food in the house , and I learned to quit logging into my brokerage account . ( I still stare at quicken every couple nights . ) Just setup up systems to automatically deposit money and make purchases . Once a year on your birthday , log in and do whatever maintenance you need to do like overbalancing and such . If you really are a buy and hold type investor ( I am , for all the reasons you cited ) then be a buy and hold and stop watching one .
end question
start question
Are real estate prices memory-less ?
For various reasons , real estate prices exhibit far more memory than stock prices . The primary reason for this is that real estate is much less liquid . Transaction costs for stock trading are on the order of 10 basis points ( 0.1 % ) , whereas a real estate transaction will typically have total costs ( including title , lawyers , brokers , engineers , etc. ) of around 5 % of the amount of the transaction . A stock transaction can be executed in milliseconds , whereas real estate transactions typically take months . Thus today 's behavior is a much better indicator of future price behavior for real estate than for stocks .
It is very helpful to understand that Free File is not actually " by " the US Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) . The IRS does indeed offer access to the program through their website , but Free File is actually a public-private partnership program operated and maintained by the <URL> . Who is the Free File Alliance ? Well , according to their <URL> : 1040NOW Corp. , Drake Enterprises , ezTaxReturn.com , FileYourTaxes , Free Tax Returns , H&amp;R Block , Intuit , Jackson Hewitt , Liberty Tax , OnLine Taxes , TaxACT , TaxHawk , and TaxSlayer . Why the income restriction ? Well , that 's part of the deal the IRS struck - <URL> " dedicated to helping 70 percent of American taxpayers prepare and e-file their federal tax returns " . Technically the member companies are offering their own software to handle tax preparation , and the rule is that 70 % of American 's must ' qualify ' for at least one product , so this adjusted gross income limit changes periodically so that 70 % of the population can use it . Why restrict it at all ? This was part of the give and take involved in negotiation with the businesses involved . If the program was " everyone files for free " , then it is presumed that many reputable businesses that make the program valuable would choose not to continue to participate . In other words , they want to be able to not give away their services for free to customers who are - at least by income definition - more than capable of paying them . The IRS has said it does not want to be in the tax prep software business , so they are not offering their own free software to do the job that private companies would otherwise charge for . However , there are other restrictions to being in the program - like the fact that no business in the program can offer " <URL> " , offer commercial services more than a certain amount of times ( so they ca n't hound you to upgrade ) , and so on . Some businesses were making a killing off these , though they are pretty much solely developed to be predatory on people with the lowest incomes ( and education levels , and IQ , and with cognitive disabilities , and basically anyone they could sucker into paying what were effectively absurd rates for short term loans along with inflated filing/preparation fees ) . Finally , Free File was partly developed as an initiative to increase the amount of digitally filed taxes and reduce the paper-based burdens of accepting and processing turns . In other words : to cut government costs , not to be a government welfare program . Even if it were , one can generally obtain commercial software for $ 30 - $ 100 , so the benefit to those above gross income levels is pretty minor ; yearly costs to file taxes with such software for those payers would be less than 0.001 % of their yearly expenses . Compared to the benefits obtainable by households living below the poverty line , fighting to cover an extra 5-30 % of the population at the potential expense of having the whole program be a failure probably seemed like a more than worthwhile trade-off .
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
Several , actually : Maintenance costs . As landlord , you are liable for maintaining the basic systems of the dwelling - structure , electrical , plumbing , HVAC . On top of that , you typically also have to maintain anything that comes with the space , so if you 're including appliances like a W/D or fridge , if they crap out you could spend a months ' rent or more replacing them . You are also required to keep the property up to city codes as far as groundskeeping unless you specifically assign those responsibilities to your tenant ( and in some states you are not allowed to do so , and in many cases renters expect groundskeeping to come out of their rent one way or the other ) . Failure to do these things can put you in danger of giving your tenant a free out on the lease contract , and even expose you to civil and criminal penalties if you 're running a real slum . Escrow payments . The combination of property tax and homeowner 's insurance usually doubles the monthly housing payment over principal and interest , and that 's if you got a mortgage for 20 % down . Also , because this is not your primary residence , it 's ineligible for Homestead Act exemptions ( where available ; states like Texas are considering extending Homestead exemptions to landlords , with the expectation it will trickle down to renters ) , however mortgage interest and state taxes do count as " rental expenses " and can be deducted on Schedule C as ordinary business expenses offsetting revenues . Income tax . The money you make in rent on this property is taxable as self-employment income tax ; you 're effectively running a sole proprietorship real-estate management company , so not only does any profit ( you are allowed to deduct maintenance and administrative costs from the rent revenues ) get added to whatever you make in salary at your day job , you 're also liable for the full employee and employer portions of Medicare/Medicaid/SS taxes . You are , however , also allowed to depreciate the property over its expected life and deduct depreciation ; the life of a house is pretty long , and if you depreciate more than the house 's actual loss of value , you take a huge hit if/when you sell because any amount of the sale price above the depreciated price of the house is a capital gain ( though , it can work to your advantage by depreciating the maximum allowable to reduce ordinary income , then paying lower capital gains rates on the sale ) . Legal costs . The rental agreement typically has to be drafted by a lawyer in order to avoid things that can cause the entire contract to be thrown out ( though there are boilerplate contracts available from state landlords ' associations ) . This will cost you a few hundred dollars up front and to update it every few years . It is deductible as an ordinary expense . Advertising . Putting up a " For Rent " sign out front is typically just the tip of the iceberg . Online and print ads , an ad agency , these things cost money . It 's deductible as an ordinary expense . Add this all up and you may end up losing money in the first year you rent the property , when legal , advertising , initial maintenance/purchases to get the place tenant-ready , etc are first spent ; deduct it properly and it 'll save you some taxes , but you better have the nest egg to cover these things on top of everything your lender will expect you to bring to closing ( assuming you do n't have $ 100k + lying around to buy the house in cash ) .
I found a page , <URL> , listing fuel taxes by province . Ontario 's gas prices already includes 14.7 cents per litre of provincial fuel tax , and comments noted " Additional taxes include 5 % GST . " For Nova Scotia and New Brunswick , where HST is in effect , comments noted " Additional taxes include 13 % HST . " That would seem to imply that if Ontario is introducing the HST , then there will be an additional 8 % added ( Ontario 's current PST ) to the price at the pump . I wanted definitive information , though , so I did a little more digging : First , I came across <URL> , at the Ontario Ministry of Revenue , confirming fuel tax of " 14.7 cents per litre of unleaded gasoline " . While it confirmed the fuel tax , it did n't mention GST or HST . Next I found <URL> , also from the Ontario MoR . That page lists goods &amp; services that wo n't be affected because they are already subject to both GST + PST , and then goes on to list those that will be affected since they are n't currently subject to PST . One item listed under " Change in Taxable Status " is gasoline : ... some goods and services that were not subject to the PST will be subject to the provincial portion ( eight per cent ) of the HST for the first time . ... Change in Taxable Status Electricity Gasoline Heating Fuels Internet Access Fees Personal Services ( e.g. , Hairstyling ) Professional Services ( e.g. , Legal , Accounting and Real Estate Fees and Commissions ) Tobacco So : I expect all-in fuel prices in Ontario to jump on July 1st , 2010 , when HST takes effect . Finally , here 's one more resource I came across : Petro Canada has a blog called <URL> with this post : <URL> ( March , 2009 ) . Relevant excerpt : ... Obviously there are many details yet to be released , so this is just for fun . If nothing were to change , simply adding the 8 % Ontario PST and applying it the same way as the GST is applied to today 's pump price in Ontario would add 6.6 cents in tax to a litre of gasoline . That means a pump price of about 92 cents per litre today in Toronto rather than 86 cents ... or about $ 2.64 more for that 40 litre fill-up . ...
There can be Federal estate tax as well as State estate tax due on an estate , but it is not of direct concern to you . Estate taxes are paid by the estate of the decedent , not by the beneficiaries , and so you do not owe any estate tax . As a matter of fact , most estates in the US do not pay Federal estate tax at all because only the amount that exceeds the Federal exemption ( $ 5.5 M ) is taxable , and most estates are smaller . State estate taxes might be a different matter because while many states exempt exactly what the Federal Government does , others exempt different ( usually smaller ) amounts . But in any case , estate taxes are not of concern to you except insofar as what you inherit is reduced because the estate had to pay estate tax before distributing the inheritances . As JoeTaxpayer 's answer says more succinctly , what you inherit is net of estate tax , if any . What you receive as an inheritance is not taxable income to you either . If you receive stock shares or other property , your basis is the value of the property when you inherit it . Thus , if you sell at a later time , you will have to pay taxes only on the increase in the value of the property from the time you inherit it . The increase in value from the time the decedent acquired the property till the date of death is not taxable income to you . Exceptions to all these favorable rules to you is the treatment of Traditional IRAs , 401ks , pension plans etc that you inherit that contain money on which the decedent never paid income tax . Distributions from such inherited accounts are ( mostly ) taxable income to you ; any part of post-tax money such as nondeductible contributions to Traditional IRAs that is included in the distribution is tax-free . Annuities present another source of complications . For annuities within IRAs , even the IRS throws up its hands at explaining things to mere mortals who are foolhardy enough to delve into Pub 950 , saying in effect , talk to your tax advisor . For other annuities , questions arise such as is this a tax-deferred annuity and whether it was purchased with pre-tax money or with post-tax money , etc. . One thing that you should check out is whether it is beneficial to take a lump sum distribution or just collect the money as it is distributed in monthly , quarterly , semi-annual , or annual payments . Annuities in particular have heavy surrender charges if they are terminated early and the money taken as a lump sum instead of over time as the insurance company issuing the annuity had planned on happening . So , taking a lump sum would mean more income tax immediately due not just on the lump sum but because the increase in AGI might reduce deductions for medical expenses as well as reduce the overall amount of itemized deductions that can be claimed , increase taxability of social security benefits , etc. . You say that you have these angles sussed out , and so I will merely re-iterate Beware the surrender charges .
At <URL> , they have some historical data which you can grab from their charts : Find the commodity on the left hand side choose your date range ( I used 25 years ) Right click on the chart and select Copy data to clipboard Open notepad ( or some other text editor ) and past in the data . Save your file as a . txt ( you could also try pasting directly into a spreadsheet ) It only has a price on a monthly basis ( at least for the 25 year chart ) . It has a number of things , like barley , oranges , crude oil , aluminum , beef , etc. . I grabbed the data for 25 years of banana prices and here 's an excerpt ( in dollars per metric ton ) : That page did not appear to have historical prices for gold , though .
I appreciate the clarifications . You bought the option . You transferred the upside price risk to the builder for a price . Also , you are not obligated to buy . The market did n't rise enough to have your option go " in the money , " so to speak . That 's the other side of the risk . The builder assumed the future risk of losing money back in 2005 when you bought the option . He has n't yet had to sell you the apartment at a below market price , but he could have . So , he came out ahead in the deal . It would be silly for you to exercise your option to buy if the market price of a comparable apartment is lower than the contract price . This depends on where you live , of course , but I do n't see things rebounding much within two years . That 's my opinion ( and you should get others ) . I 'd get out .
The buyer discloses the financing arrangements to the seller because it makes his offer more attractive . When a seller receives and accepts an offer , the deal does not usually close until 30 to 60 days later . If the buyer can not come up with the money by closing , the deal falls apart . This is a risk for the seller . When a seller is considering whether or not to accept an offer , it is helpful to know the likelihood that the buyer can actually obtain the amount of cash in the offer by the closing date . If the buyer ca n't acquire the funding , the offer is n't worth the paper it is printed on . The amount of the down payment vs. the amount of financing is also relevant to the seller . Let me give you a real-world example that happened to me once when I was selling a house . The buyer was doing a no-money-down mortgage and had no money for a down payment . He was even borrowing the closing costs . We accepted the offer , but when the bank did the appraisal , it was short of the purchase price . For most home sales , this would not be a problem , as long as the appraisal was more than the amount borrowed . But in this case , because the amount borrowed was more than the appraisal , the bank had a problem . The deal was at risk , and in order to continue either the buyer had to find some money somewhere ( which he could n't ) , or we had to lower the price to save the deal . Certainly , accepting the offer from a buyer with no cash to bring to the table was a risk . ( In our case , we got lucky . We found some errors that were made in the appraisal , and got it redone . )
Generally , the paperwork realtors use is pre-written and pre-approved by the relevant State and real-estate organizations . The offers , contracts , etc etc a pretty straightforward and standard . You can ask a realtor for a small fee to arrange the documents for you ( smaller than the usual 5 % sellers ' fee they charge , I would say 0.5 % or a couple of hundreds of dollars flat fee would be enough for the work ) . You can try and get these forms yourself , sometimes you can buy them in the neighborhood Staples , or from various law firms and legal plans that sell standard docs . You can get a lawyer to go over it with you for almost nothing : I used the LegalZoom plan for documentation review , and it cost me $ 30 ( business plan , individual is cheaper ) to go over several purchase contracts ( $ 30 is a monthly subscription , but you do n't have to pay it for more than one month ) . But these are standard , so you do it once and you know how to read them all . If you have a legal plan from work , this may cover document review and preparation . Preparing a contract that is not a standard template can otherwise cost you hundreds of dollars . Title company will not do any paperwork for you except for the deed itself . They can arrange the deed and the recording , escrow and title insurance , but they will not write a contract for the parties to use . You have to come with the contract already in place , and with escrow instructions already agreed upon . Some jurisdictions require using a lawyer in a real-estate transaction . If you 're in a jurisdiction ( usually on a county level ) that requires the transaction to go through a lawyer - then the costs will be higher .
The problem might be that by contacting the sales people you make them your agents . By mere requesting information you may inadvertently establish client-agent relationship . Once you 've established it - you can not bring another agent . I believe it depends on jurisdictions and local rules , but I was aware of something like that being a problem here in California . Here 's an article from a real-estate agent in New York explaining the <URL> . Here 's also a <URL> .
One things about psychology - people spend more money when its an abstract concept instead of having cold , hard cash . What does this mean ? People spend more money when they use credit cards for day to day purchases . While I still use a credit card for day to day purchases , there 's a big difference between bringing $ 200 to costco to pay for groceries and laying out 10 $ 20 bills vs swiping a card when you see a number flash on the screen . If you 're truly looking to reduce expenses , keep this in mind .
Typically related to real estate prices they mean simple interest . For example assume in 2005 a property is worth $ 100,000.00 . In 2010 that property would be worth $ 108,000.00 .
There are two components of option valuation , the value that 's " in the money " and the " time value . " In the case of the $ 395 put , that option was already in the money and it will move less than the stock price by a bit as there will still be some time value there . $ 22.52 is intrinsic value ( the right word for ' in the money ' ) and the rest is time . The $ 365 strike is still out of the money , but as jldugger implied , the chance of it going through that strike is better as it 's $ 6.66 closer . Looking at the options chain gives you a better perspective on this . If Apple went up $ 20 Monday , and down $ 20 Tuesday , these prices would be higher as implied volatility would also go higher . Now , I 'd hardly call a drop of under 2 % " tanking " but on the otherhand , I 'd not call the 25 % jump in the option price skyrocketing . Options do this all the time . Curious what prompted the question , are you interested in trading options ? This stock in particular ?
The most obvious answer is by referral . A friend or loved one who had a good experience with this process . I 'd suggest you first research the topic itself on your own . If you read a few books on this topic just to get an understanding , you 'll know better what to ask during the process itself , and you 'll better gauge the attorney 's expertise . The one key thing I 'd suggest is that you not go with a generalist . You need to use an attorney who only does estate planning along with the sub topics you seek . There 's enough for them to keep on top of in the way of changing laws that you do n't want a jack-of-all-trades . Her office may also handle real estate closings ( for example ) but you want her to be 100 % focused . I 've had dealings with a full service firm , but each lawyer had a narrow expertise .
You 've already hit on the big difference . If you buy a property , you 've made a big commitment , for better or worse . If you bought wisely , you 'll be very happy . If not , you could go bankrupt . An REIT spreads out the risk , but the reward is n't as great . There 's less barrier to entry in buying shares of an REIT than there is in buying an investment property : money , time , maintenance . The answer for you depends on what level of effort you want to put into your investment . If you are all ready to pick up an investment property , make the down payment , get appraisal and inspection , clean up the house , and fill it with tenants , then go for it . Otherwise , research some REITs and buy some shares . ( Disclaimer : I have a rental property that 's doing pretty well now . )
As recommended by littleadv , I searched online for lists of banks in both my state and the state where the will was probated . The first one I tried , PNC Bank , was a winner . They offered estate accounts , online banking , mobile deposit , and have local branches that are open on Saturday .
Options reflect expectations about the underlying asset , and options are commonly priced using the Black-Scholes model : and are probability functions , is the spot ( current ) price of the asset , is the strike price , is the risk free rate , and represents time to maturity . Without getting into the mathematics , it suffices to say that higher volatility or expectation of volatility increases the perceived riskiness of the asset , so call options are priced lower and put options are priced higher . Think about it intuitively . If the stock is more likely to go downwards , then there 's an increased chance that the call option expires worthless , so call options must be priced lower to accommodate the relative change in expected value of the option . Puts are priced similarly , but they move inversely with respect to call option prices due to Put-Call parity . So if call option prices are falling , then put option prices are rising ( Note , however , that call prices falling does not cause put prices to rise . The inverse relationship exists because of changes in the underlying factors and how pricing works . ) So the option action signifies that the market believes the stock is headed lower ( in the given time frame ) . That does not mean it will go lower , and option traders assume risk whenever they take a particular position . Bottom line : got ta do your own homework ! Best of luck .
The relevant section from <URL> seems to be <URL> : Long-Term Care You can include in medical expenses amounts paid for qualified long-term care services and premiums paid for qualified long-term care insurance contracts . Qualified Long-Term Care Services Qualified long-term care services are necessary diagnostic , preventive , therapeutic , curing , treating , mitigating , rehabilitative services , and maintenance and personal care services ( defined later ) that are : Required by a chronically ill individual , and Provided pursuant to a plan of care prescribed by a licensed health care practitioner . Chronically ill individual . An individual is chronically ill if , within the previous 12 months , a licensed health care practitioner has certified that the individual meets either of the following descriptions . He or she is unable to perform at least two activities of daily living without substantial assistance from another individual for at least 90 days , due to a loss of functional capacity . Activities of daily living are eating , toileting , transferring , bathing , dressing , and continence . He or she requires substantial supervision to be protected from threats to health and safety due to severe cognitive impairment . Maintenance and personal care services . Maintenance or personal care services is care which has as its primary purpose the providing of a chronically ill individual with needed assistance with his or her disabilities ( including protection from threats to health and safety due to severe cognitive impairment ) .
Exchange rates are not calculated from anything . They are based on the price that someone is willing to pay to buy that currency . It 's a purely market-driven thing . Interest rates do have an effect on exchange rates , since high interest rates make a currency more desirable , but it 's not based on any kind of formula .
end question
start question
Are variable rate loans ever a good idea ?
First , let me fill in the gaps on your situation , based on the numbers you 've given so far . I estimate that your student loan balance ( principal ) is <URL> . With the variable rate loan option that you 've presented , the maximum interest rate you could be charged would be <URL> , which would bring your monthly payment up to that $ 382 number you gave in the comments . Your thoughts are correct about the advantage to paying this loan off sooner . If you are planning on paying off this loan sooner , the interest rate on the variable rate loan has less opportunity to climb . One thing to be cautious of with the comparison , though : The $ 1200 difference between the two options is only valid if your rate does not increase . If the rate does increase , of course , the difference would be less , or it could even go the other way . So keep in mind that the $ 1200 savings is only a theoretical maximum ; you wo n't actually see that much savings with the variable rate option . Before making a decision , you need to find out more about the terms of this variable rate loan : How often can your rate go up ? What is the loan rate based on ? I 'm not as familiar with student loan variable rate loans , but there are other variable rate loans I am familiar with : With a typical adjustable rate home mortgage , the rate is locked for a certain number of years ( perhaps 5 years ) . After that , the bank might be allowed to raise the rate once every period of months ( perhaps once every year ) . There will be a limit to how much the rate can rise on each increase ( perhaps 1.0 % ) , and there will be a maximum rate that could be charged over the life of the loan ( perhaps 12 % ) . The interest rate on your mortgage can adjust up , inside of those parameters . ( The actual formula used to adjust will be found in the fine print of your mortgage contract . ) However , the bank knows that if they let your rate get too high above the current market rates , you will refinance to a different bank . So the mortgage is typically structured so that it will raise your rate somewhat , but it wo n't usually get too far above the market rate . If you knew ahead of time that you would have the house paid off in 5 years , or that you would be selling the house before the 5 years is over , you could confidently take the adjustable rate mortgage . Credit cards , on the other hand , also typically have variable rates . These rates can change every month , but they are usually calculated on some formula determined ahead of time . For example , on my credit card , the interest rate is the published <URL> plus 13.65 % . On my last statement , it said the rate was 17.15 % . ( Of course , because I pay my balance in full each month , I do n't pay any interest . The rate could go up to 50 % , for all I care . ) As I said , I do n't know what determines the rate on your variable rate student loan option , and I do n't know what the limits are . If it climbs up to 11.5 % , that is obviously ridiculously high . I recommend that you try to pay off this student loan as soon as you possibly can ; however , if you are not planning on paying off this student loan early , you need to try to determine how likely the rate is to climb if you want to pick the variable rate option .
First , let me fill in the gaps on your situation , based on the numbers you 've given so far . I estimate that your student loan balance ( principal ) is <URL> . With the variable rate loan option that you 've presented , the maximum interest rate you could be charged would be <URL> , which would bring your monthly payment up to that $ 382 number you gave in the comments . Your thoughts are correct about the advantage to paying this loan off sooner . If you are planning on paying off this loan sooner , the interest rate on the variable rate loan has less opportunity to climb . One thing to be cautious of with the comparison , though : The $ 1200 difference between the two options is only valid if your rate does not increase . If the rate does increase , of course , the difference would be less , or it could even go the other way . So keep in mind that the $ 1200 savings is only a theoretical maximum ; you wo n't actually see that much savings with the variable rate option . Before making a decision , you need to find out more about the terms of this variable rate loan : How often can your rate go up ? What is the loan rate based on ? I 'm not as familiar with student loan variable rate loans , but there are other variable rate loans I am familiar with : With a typical adjustable rate home mortgage , the rate is locked for a certain number of years ( perhaps 5 years ) . After that , the bank might be allowed to raise the rate once every period of months ( perhaps once every year ) . There will be a limit to how much the rate can rise on each increase ( perhaps 1.0 % ) , and there will be a maximum rate that could be charged over the life of the loan ( perhaps 12 % ) . The interest rate on your mortgage can adjust up , inside of those parameters . ( The actual formula used to adjust will be found in the fine print of your mortgage contract . ) However , the bank knows that if they let your rate get too high above the current market rates , you will refinance to a different bank . So the mortgage is typically structured so that it will raise your rate somewhat , but it wo n't usually get too far above the market rate . If you knew ahead of time that you would have the house paid off in 5 years , or that you would be selling the house before the 5 years is over , you could confidently take the adjustable rate mortgage . Credit cards , on the other hand , also typically have variable rates . These rates can change every month , but they are usually calculated on some formula determined ahead of time . For example , on my credit card , the interest rate is the published <URL> plus 13.65 % . On my last statement , it said the rate was 17.15 % . ( Of course , because I pay my balance in full each month , I do n't pay any interest . The rate could go up to 50 % , for all I care . ) As I said , I do n't know what determines the rate on your variable rate student loan option , and I do n't know what the limits are . If it climbs up to 11.5 % , that is obviously ridiculously high . I recommend that you try to pay off this student loan as soon as you possibly can ; however , if you are not planning on paying off this student loan early , you need to try to determine how likely the rate is to climb if you want to pick the variable rate option .
No , SPDR ETFs are not a good fit for a novice investor with a low level of <URL> . In fact , there is no investment that is safe for an absolute beginner , not even a savings account . ( An absolute beginner could easily overdraw his savings account , leading to fees and collections . ) I would say that an investment becomes a good fit for an investor as soon as said investor understands how the investment works . A savings account at a bank or credit union is fairly easy to understand and is therefore a suitable place to hold money after a few hours to a day of research . ( Even after 0 hours of research , however , a savings account is still better than a sock drawer . ) Money market accounts ( through a bank ) , certificates of deposit ( through a bank ) , and money market mutual funds ( through a mutual fund provider ) are probably the next easiest thing to understand . This could take a few hours to a few weeks of research depending on the learner . Equities , corporate bonds , and government bonds are another step up in complexity , and could take weeks or months of schooling to understand well enough to try . Equity or bond mutual funds -- or the ETF versions of those , which is what you asked about -- are another level after that . Also important to understand along the way are the financial institutions and market infrastructure that exist to provide these products : banks , credit unions , public corporations , brokerages , stock exchanges , bond exchanges , mutual fund providers , ETF providers , etc. .
Here are some other things to consider : You must pay the 401K loan back over a maximum of 5 years . Student loans are usually longer than this , so make sure your cash-flow can actually support the new payment timeline . The repayment of a 401K loan gets deducted directly from your paycheck , which may decrease the take-home pay you 're expecting . Not a deal-breaker , just something to be aware of . Many 401K plans wo n't let you make any further 401K contributions until you 've repaid the loan . You 'll miss out on some valuable tax-free investing because of that , which may include your employers match . There is a large opportunity cost to borrowing this money . Your long-term returns in your 401K may be lowered because you 'll be breaking the dollar cost average of your contributions . You still have to pay interest back to your 401K account on the money borrowed . This is usually prime + one or two percent . With prime currently at 3.25 % , do the math and make sure it makes sense in terms of the interest rates .
If I were you I would pay off these loans today . Here are the reasons why I would do this : Car Loan For car loans in particular , it 's much better to not pay interest on a loan since cars lose value over time . So the longer you hold the debt , the more you end up paying in interest as the car continues to lose value . This is really the opposite of what you want to do in order to build wealth , which is to acquire assets that gain value over time . I would also recommend that once you pay the loan , that you set aside the payment you used to make on the loan as savings for your next car . That way , you will be able to pay cash for your next car , avoiding thousands of dollars of interest . You will also be able to negotiate a better price by paying cash . Just by doing this you will be able to either afford to buy a nicer car with the same amount of money , or to put the extra money toward something else . Student Loan For the student loan , 3 % is a very low rate historically . However , the reason I would still pay these off is that the " return " you are getting by doing so is completely risk free . You ca n't often get this type of return from a risk-free investment instrument , and putting money in the stock market carries risk . So to me , this is an " easy " way to get a guaranteed return on your money . The only reason I might not pay this down immediately is if you have any other debt at a rate higher than 3 % . General Reasons to Get out of Debt Overall , one of the basic functions of lifetime financial planning is to convert income into assets that produce cash flow . This is the reason that you save for retirement and a house , so that when your income ends when you 're older these assets will produce cash , or in the case of the house , that you will no longer have to make rent payments . Similarly , paying off these debts creates cash flow , as you no longer have to make these payments . It also reduces your overall financial risk , as you 'd need less money to live on if you lost your job or had a similar emergency ( you can probably reduce your emergency fund a bit too ) . Discharging these loans will also improve your debt-to-income ratio if you are thinking of buying a house soon . I wonder whether as someone who 's responsible with money , the prospect of cutting two large checks feels like " big spending " to you , even though it 's really a prudent thing to do and will save you money . However , if you do pay these off , I do n't think you 'll regret it .
This answer is provided mostly to answer your question " what is it ? " A variable annuity is a contract between you and an insurance company . The insurance company takes a bunch of money up front as a lump sum , and will pay you some money yearly - like earning interest . ( In this case , they will probably be paying you the money into the account itself ) . How much they return is , as the name suggests , variable . It can be anything , depending on what the contract says . Mostly , there will be some formula based on the stock market - frequently , the performance of the Standard &amp; Poors 500 Index . There will typically be some minimum returns and maximum returns - if the stock market tanks , your annuity will not lose a ton of value , but if the stock market goes up a lot in one year ( as it frequently does ) , you will not gain a lot of value either . If you are going to be in the market for a long amount of time ( decades , e.g. " a few years out of college " and then a little ) , it makes a lot more sense to invest in the stock market directly . This is essentially what the insurance company is going to do , except you can cut out the middleman . You can get a lot more money that way . You are essentially paying the insurance company to take on some stock market risk for you - you are buying some safety . Buying safety like this is expensive . Variable annuities are the right investment for a few people in a few circumstances - mostly , if you 're near retirement , it 's one way to have an option for a " safe " investment , for a portion ( but not all ) of your portfolio . Maybe . Depending on the specifics , a lot . If you are under , like , 50 or so ? Almost certainly a terrible investment which will gradually waste your money ( by not growing it as fast as it deserves to be grown ) . Since you want to transfer it to Vanguard , you can probably call Vanguard , ask to open a Roth IRA , and request assistance rolling it over from the place it is held now . There should be no legal restrictions or tax consequences from transferring the money from one Roth IRA account to another .
What you are saying is a very valid concern . After the flash crash many institutions in the US replaced " true market orders " ( where tag 40 = 1 and has no price ) with deep in the money limit orders under the hood , after the <URL> raised concerns about the use of market orders in the case of large HFT traders , and concerns on the lack of liquidity that caused market orders that found no limit orders to execute on the other side of the trade , driving the prices of blue chip stocks into the pennies . We also applaud the CFTC requesting comment regarding whether it is appropriate to restrict large order execution design that results in disruptive trading . In particular , we believe there are questions whether it is ever appropriate to permit large order algorithms that employ unlimited use of market orders or that permit executions at prices which are a dramatic percentage below the present market price without a pause for human review So although you still see a market order on the front end , it is transformed to a very aggressive limit in the back end . However , doing this change manually , by selling at price 0 or buying at 9999 may backfire since it may trigger fat finger checks and prevent your order from reaching the market . For example <URL> rejects orders that are priced too aggressively and do n't comply with the range of valid prices . If you want your trade to execute right now and you are willing to take slippage in order to get fast execution , sending a market order is still the best alternative .
It depends on what your plans for the future are . . Taking out a loan is not a bad thing if it is at a good rate and under good terms and you are sure you can handle the payments . If you buy the car with cash you may be giving up the opportunity to later get a great rate on that $ 8k . However , you are probably not utilizing that $ 20k to make as much interest as you 'd then be paying if you did take the $ 8k on loan . Since you say " house fund " I assume you are saving to make a down payment on a new house . If you plan to buy that house within the next 6 months the hard pulls on your credit report from applying for the car loan will probably ding your credit score for the next 6 months which might cost you on your mortgage rate . However , if you do n't plan to buy for a few more years and if you 've never had a car payment before then the auto loan would actually be adding diversity to your credit history and in the long run would help your score . Another factor to consider is the loan-to-value ratio you are shooting for . LTV affects the interest rate , requirements for private mortgage insurance , etc. . Mortgage rates are at an all-time low and lower than auto-rates , so depending on the terms of the house purchase that $ 8k might be better spent on the car than the house . In short , if you want to buy the house soon ( rates are loooow , market is a buyer 's market ) , and you need that $ 8k to get a better mortgage rate or prevent you from being required to buy PMI you should probably put it toward the house . Otherwise you should probably put it toward the car . Last piece of advice . If you absolutely must buy a house and a car in the same short time-frame , do them both on the same day so that your credit score is not dinged before applying for one or the other . With mortgages this may be difficult considering the longer closing procedures , but try to time it so that your credit is getting checked by the mortgage broker and the auto lender on the same day .
There are two reasons why most options are n't exercised . The first is obvious , and the second , less so . The obvious : An option that 's practically worthless does n't get exercised . Options that reach expiry and remain unexercised are almost always worthless bets that simply did n't pay off . This includes calls with strikes above the current underlying price , and puts with strikes below it . A heck of a lot of options . If an option with value was somehow left to expire , it was probably a mistake , or else the transaction costs outweighed the value remaining ; not quite worthless , but not " worth it " either . The less obvious : An option with value can be cancelled any time before expiration . A trader that buys an option may at some point show a gain sooner than anticipated , or a loss in excess of his tolerance . If a gain , he may want to sell before expiry to realize the gain sooner . Similarly , if a loss , he may want to take the loss sooner . In both cases , his capital is freed up and he can take another position . And -- this is the key part -- the other end matched up with that option sale is often a buyer that had created ( written ) exactly such an option contract in the first place -- the option writer -- and who is looking to get out of his position . Option writers are the traders responsible , in the first place , for creating options and increasing the " open interest . " Anybody with the right kind and level of options trading account can do this . A trader that writes an option does so by instructing his broker to " sell to open " a new instance of the option . The trader then has a short position ( negative quantity ) in that option , and all the while may be subject to the obligations that match the option 's exercise rights . The only way for the option writer to get out of that short position and its obligations are these : Not by choice : To get assigned . That is to say : a buyer exercised the option . The writer has to fulfill his obligation by delivering the underlying ( if a call ) to the option holder , or buying the underlying ( if a put ) from the option holder . Not by choice : The option expires worthless . This is the ideal scenario for a writer because 100 % of the premium received ( less transaction costs ) is profit . By choice : The writer is free to buy back exactly the same kind of option before expiry using a " buy to close " order with their broker . Once the option has been purchased with a " buy to close " , it eliminates the short position and obligation . The option is cancelled . The open interest declines . Options thus cancelled just do n't live long enough to either expire or be exercised .
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
The most basic way of determining whether a specific fund is a dud or not is to compare it to a correponding ETF or index . For example , if you are invested in an emerging market fund , compare your results to the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund ( EEM ) . If you are not getting the same return over time , or are incurring significantly more risk , I would question the value of staying in that particular fund .
Part 1 Quite a few [ or rather most ] countries allow USD account . So there is no conversion . Just to illustrare ; In India its allowed to have a USD account . The funds can be transfered as USD and withdrawn as USD , the interest is in USD . There no conversion at any point in time . Typically the rates for CD on USD account was Central Bank regulated rate of 5 % , recently this was deregulated , and some banks offer around 7 % interest . Why is the rate high on USD in India ? - There is a trade deficit which means India gets less USD and has to pay More USD to buy stuff [ Oil and other essential items ] . - The balance is typically borrowed say from IMF or other countries etc. - Allowing Banks to offer high interest rate is one way to attract more USD into the country in short term . [ because somepoint in time they may take back the USD out of India ] So why is n't everyone jumping and making USD investiments in India ? - The Non-Residents who eventually plan to come back have invested in USD in India . - There is a risk of regulation changes , ie if the Central Bank / Country comes up pressure for Forex Reserves , they may make it difficut to take back the USD . IE they may impose charges / taxes or force conversion on such accounts . - The KYC norms make it difficult for Indian Bank to attract US citizens [ except Non Resident Indians ] - Certain countries would have explicit regulations to prevent Other Nationals from investing in such products as they may lead to volatility [ ie all of them suddenly pull out the funds ] - There would be no insurance to foreign nationals . Part 2 The FDIC insurance is not the reason for lower rates . Most countires have similar insurance for Bank deposits for account holdes . The reason for lower interst rate is all the Goverments [ China etc ] park the excess funds in US Treasuries because ; 1 . It is safe 2 . It is required for any international purchase 3 . It is very liquid . Now if the US Fed started giving higher interest rates to tresaury bonds say 5 % , it essentially paying more to other countries ... so its keeping the interest rates low even at 1 % there are enough people [ institutions / governemnts ] who would keep the money with US Treasury . So the US Treasury has to make some revenue from the funds kept at it ... it lends at lower interest rates to Bank ... who in turn lend it to borrowers [ both corporate and retail ] . Now if they can borrow cheaply from Fed , why would they pay more to Individual Retail on CD ? , they will pay less ; because the lending rates are low as well . Part 3 Check out the regulations
As for your chances of getting a new home , those student loans if no longer in deferment will count against your DTI , which is your debt to Income . The bank/credit union gets this number by taking your total monthly payments of all debt on your credit report and dividing this number by your total gross income each month . The general rule is that this number including your new house payment should be 35 % or less . Paying off these loans will keep this number low , and at the same time show the institution your ability to pay off your loans in full over a longer period of time . I would suggest paying down your student loans first . The amount to pay off changes from person to person and situation to situation . The best thing for you to do is figure out your own DTI and pay off loans until you get to the 30 % mark . Then I would suggest saving up for a 20 % down payment and to put 3 times your monthly income into a savings account for an emergency savings . On another note , since mortgage rates are based on your credit score , paying off that amount of school loans will increase your credit score and lower your mortgage rate . Last , there are many different orders you could pay off your student loans in . Another suggestion would be to take the student loan with the lowest balance and pay that off regardless of interest rates . The reason for this is that it creates a " snowball effect . " Basically what this means is that when people pay off one loan they get excited and get a renewed interest in paying them down . If you start with the lowest and work your way up , it gives you momentum and keeps you wanting to pay them down .
There are a lot of things you can do to get a better tenant . This answer relates specifically for Sydney Australia . Regarding the Application Form : Name &amp; contact details Employment details including length of work , name &amp; contact details of HR manager Current and previous addresses and rents paid , and lengths of time at these addresses Landlord/Real estate details for each place listed on form whether they smoke any pets ( indoor or outdoor ) Emergency contact detail ( in case of emergency ) Get them to sign the bottom of the form below a statement which authorises you to ask questions about them ( this can be used if you need to talk to their real estate agent or their employer about them - sometimes they will not talk to you unless you have the applicant 's consent ) . Regarding Information for the applicant to provide you : Rental history - at least 6 months Rental Ledger from real estate agent or copy of their bank statement if they rent privately and pay rent by direct debit ( I usually do not accept rental receipts from a private landlord as anyone can buy a a receipt book and fill it out ) . Last 3 pay slips as a minimum , or proof of regular income if they are self employed . 100 point ID check If renting through a private landlord - copy of water rates or council rates to confirm details of landlord ( they could just pretend a friend of theirs is the landlord ) . copy of any welfare payments they might receive . any references ( mainly from previous real estate agents or landlords ) . Note this is a much lower priority than their rental history . Regarding Selection Criteria : The 3 top priorities are : Rental history - look for someone always paying on time ( this is my number one criteria ) - someone who has missed payments or paid late in the past is more likely to do it in the future . Cleanliness of the tenant - this can be quite hard to check since they have not lived in your place yet , so what I do is tell them that if we short list them then we go to their current home to see how they live and how clean they are . They do n't have to accept , but if they do n't then they may be hiding something . We find most good tenants have no problems letting us in . We have usually checked everything else by this stage so if we are happy we usually sign the lease whilst at their place . Current employment , stability of employment and income level . Other things you can check : Always confirm with the real estate or landlord regarding the rental history they have given you . We have had someone in the past who had forged their rental ledger , we were about to go with them , but a last check with their real estate agent confirmed that the ledger they gave us was not provided by the agent . They faxed us the correct ledger which was very different . This one check saved us a potential big problem . We usually also screen people when they ring up to see if they have the required information . If they do n't then we do not accept an application from them and save our time having to show bad tenants the property . Instead of having 20 to 30 people during a showing we might have 2 or 3 . This gives us time to talk with each applicant and get to know them a bit . You can learn a lot about a person just by talking to them . But you always do your checks to confirm everything . Also , be wary of people with no rental history ; we usually do not accept them , including home owners who are selling their home . If you 're asking , surly if they are home owners they should take care of your property . Not always the case . If someone has never rented before they may be renting for the short term before they buy again . If they are in a house they think is temporary , do you think they will treat it the same as a house they treat as their own ? Usually not . There are exceptions , but do you want to take the risk . That is why we have the policy of not accepting an application if they have no rental history - again this is the number one priority - a good rental history , as in this case history will usually repeat itself . It is your asset and you need to do everything in your power to protect it . A good tenant is the difference between a great asset that can provide for you now into your future and a head-ache you want to get rid of . Also , one thing I forgot to include is that we allow outdoor pets ( dogs and cats ) only , and if they do have pets there is usually an additional $ 10 per week added onto the rent ( we include this in our advertising ) . Small fish in a fish tank is an exception . We charge the extra $ 10 per week in rent because the pets can add to the wear and tear on the property .
You are correct that it could refer to any of the types of interest rates that you 've mentioned . In general , though , phrases such as " rising interest rates " and " falling interest rates " refer to the <URL> or <URL> . These are the interest rates at which banks in the U.S. and U.K. , respectively , are lending money to each other .
To answer your question , specific to ATM usage : It is your money . You can do with it as you wish , as long what you are doing with it is legal . There is nothing illegal about taking money out of an ATM every day of the week . That said , there are some issues . One you already mention being the typical daily limit of $ 300 . Another , is that these days most ATMs charge you for the transaction and many banks will also charge you for the transaction . ( That assumes that you are not using an ATM owned by your bank . ) These fees add up quite quickly . Using the very typical $ 1.50 / transaction ( or $ 3/transaction total ) , you could make 8 transactions before the typical $ 25 wiring fee is more appropriate . You should also not ignore the " cost " of the inconvenience of having to make so many transactions . There is also the potential , however remote , that your bank may see it as suspicious activity and lead to the headaches you are trying to avoid by not wiring the money . If you do n't have a checking account with that bank into which you could just transfer the money , online , by phone or whatever , I would simply jump through the required hoops . Keep in mind that these hurdles are intended to protect your money .
No , it 's not a good idea . You started by saying you 'd like to invest , but then mentioned something that 's not an investment , it 's a speculation . Both Forex and CFDs are not really investments . They are a zero sum game where over time , it 's a pool of your money , the other trader 's money , and the broker , redistributed over time . If you truly wish to invest , you 'll read up on the process , understand your own long term goals , and put aside X % ( say 5-15 ) of your monthly income . You should look into investments that are long term , and will fund your retirement 30-40 years hence .
Take the equation 1 + r _ { annual } = ( 1 + r _ { monthly } ) ^ 12 Notice , the right hand side is just compounding the rate 12 times . We can rearrange the equation to solve for the monthly rate : r _ { monthly } = ( 1 + r _ { annual } ) ^ ( 1/12 ) - 1 Substituting in r _ { annual } = .12 , we have r _ { monthly } = 0.00949 . So , for an annual rate of 12 % , that corresponds to a monthly rate of about 0.949 % .
Say you have a $ 2000 credit card bill due two weeks from today . If you are paid every other week , it 's today 's check that will pay it . Why not just get it off your desk ? You ca n't spend it on anything else , so it 's not really on hand as liquid cash to use . Much of my life , savings had a 5 % rate of return . So , $ 100/yr or $ 2 per week on this money . If you have a bill pay that offers a same day direct payment , use it . But if you are mailing checks , the game of paying at the last moment will cost you with just one mistake . I respect how that $ 2/wk adds up over a full budget , but rates are near zero , and the $ 10K in my checking returns pennies . I visit and set up my bill pay up each week and pay anything outstanding . Even if it 's set for two weeks out , I enter it in the check register as gone .
Fred is correct ... MOST financial advisors ( but not all ) are paid either for managing your assets or for selling you financial products . But success at anything , especially building wealth , is all about PROCESS , not products . I applaud your desire to find a financial advisor to help you because this is not something that most people have the education , experience or capacity to do themselves ( it is impossible to get the perspective you need to make the best choices ) . Start with a CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER professional - they have an ethical duty to do what is in your best interests ahead of their own ( the " fiduciary standard " ) . You might interview two or three . Work with the one who is transparent about how they are paid and whose process is focused on helping you achieve your goals ... not following any rule of thumb or standard boilerplate . Your goals are different . Your financial life is different . Find someone who can help YOU follow YOUR agenda ... not their own .
end question
start question
Will I face complications when rolling my Roth 401K into a Roth IRA when I become a grad student ?
For this rollover , there are no restrictions of age/income/etc . You need to know - the transfer must be direct , i.e. if you get a physical check , it should be payable not to you , but to the new custodian ( broker ) for your benefit . Direct is preferable and faster . The assets may not be transferable ' in kind . ' This phrase simply means that you may move the value , but if the assets are not shares that are held by the public , but special 401 ( k ) class shares , they must be liquidated before moving , and moved as cash . This is a risk people with large accounts take should the market move dramatically during the time they are liquidated , and why , for them , I suggest doing it piecemeal .
You ca n't roll it over to a Roth IRA without tax penalties . The best thing to do is roll it to an IRA that is n't tied to work at all . Second best is to roll it into your new employer 's 401k . The reason that an IRA makes sense is that it gives you the same tax savings as a 401k , but it allows you to remain in control of the money regardless of your employment status .
If he moves his 401K to a Roth all in one go , all the money will be considered income for the year he moves it , and he will have to pay taxes on that income . If he keeps it in his 401K or rolls it into a traditional IRA , he will only pay taxes on the money as he withdraws it . Bottom line , converting to Roth is almost certainly a bad idea .
It looks like the HST will be in effect in Ontario on July 1st , 2010 . As to whether it will replace GST with HST for all services , it looks like some sectors may get special treatment : <URL> . But it does n't look final yet . However , I would suggest that most service-based businesses in Ontario need to prepare to start charging 13 % HST instead of 5 % GST . It will be the law . On the " goods " side of the new harmonized tax , it looks like certain goods will still be exempt from the provincial portion . Here 's a quote from the <URL> : " Books , diapers , children 's clothing and footwear , children 's car seats and car booster seats , and feminine hygiene products would be exempt from the provincial portion of the single sales tax . " Here 's some additional information on the introduction of the HST , from the province : <URL> . And finally , another interesting article from the Ottawa Business Journal : <URL> UPDATE : I just received an insert from Canada Revenue Agency included with my quarterly GST statement . Titled " Harmonization of the Sales Tax in Ontario and British Columbia " , it contains a section titled " What this means for you " ( as in , you the business owner ) . Here 's an excerpt : [ ... ] All Ontario and B.C. registrants would need to update their accounting and point-of-sale systems to accomodate the change in rate and new point-of-sale rebates for the implementation date of July 1 , 2010 . The harmonization of the sales tax in Ontario and B.C. may affect the filing requirements of registrants outside of these two provinces . Registrants will report their HST according to their current GST filing frequency . As a result of the harmonization , there will be changes to the rebates for housing and public service bodies . More information will be released as it becomes available . Visit the CRA web site often , at <URL> , for the most up-to-date information on the harmonization of the sales tax and how it may affect you . [ ... ] Last , I found some very detailed information on the HST here : <URL> . Chances are anything you want to know is in there .
Regarding transferring a residential investment property into your SMSF , no you can not do it . You can not transfer residential property into your SMSF from a related party . You can only transfer Business Real Property ( that is commercial or industrial property ) into a SMSF from a related party . You can buy new residential property inside your SMSF , and you can also borrow within the fund ( using a non-recourse loan ) to help you buy it , or you could buy it as tenants-in-common with your SMSF ( that is you own say 50 % in your own name and 50 % under the SMSF ) . Regarding self-managing the investment properties held in your SMSF , yes you can , but you should make sure all your paperwork is in order ( all your t 's crossed and your i 's dotted ) . You can even charge your SMSF for managing the properties , but this should be at market rates ( not more ) .
If I were you , I would pay off the student loan as quick as possible . Here 's the reason : A 6 % guaranteed return-on-investment is pretty good . And that is essentially what you are getting when you pay off your debt . I understand the feeling of being behind on your retirement savings , but when the debt is gone , you 'll also have the monthly expense of loan payments gone , so you 'll be able to put away even more toward retirement at that time . The quicker you can get rid of the debt and start saving up for retirement , the better , so I would challenge you to push yourself a little bit to make it happen sooner . See if you can knock this out in 18 months by either reducing your expenses a little more or increasing your income a little bit .
<URL> covers this . Rollovers to Roth IRAs . You can roll over distributions directly from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) to a Roth IRA . You must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) that you would have had to include in income if you had not rolled them over into a Roth IRA . However , special rules apply for any amounts rolled over in 2010 . See How to treat 2010 Roth IRA rollovers , later . You do not include in gross income any part of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is a return of contributions to the plan that were taxable to you when paid . In addition , the 10 % tax on early distributions does not apply . Any amount rolled over into a Roth IRA is subject to the same rules for converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA . For more information , see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1 of Publication 590 . How to report . Enter the total amount of the distribution before income tax or deductions were withheld on Form 1040 , line 16a ; Form 1040A , line 12a ; or Form 1040NR , line 17a . This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R . From this amount , subtract any contributions ( usually shown in box 5 of Form 1099-R ) that were taxable to you when made . Enter the remaining amount , even if zero , on Form 1040 , line 16b ; Form 1040A , line 12b ; or Form 1040NR , line 17b . The 1099R should come from the organization that had the original 401K , only they would know what would go in each box on the form 1099-R .
I do n't have all the information yet , but I 'm struggling with this one myself . If Obama 's deal w / the Republicans ( to extend the Bush era tax cuts for 2 more years ) does go through , then doing this conversion will be a bit cheaper , since your marginal tax rate on regular income ( which is , I believe , how the funds converted would be characterized ) would remain a few % lower for 2011 and 2012 ( vs the increase going into effect in 2011 without that deal ) . Forget about that for a second though . The big thing about doing the conversion in 2010 vs. 2011 is that if you do it in 2010 , you get to defer half of the taxable income the conversion creates by 1 year . So if you converted $ 50,000 in 2010 , instead of adding $ 50,000 taxable income all in one year , you spread that $ 50,000 ( evenly ) over 2 tax years . That 's a double win : * you do n't owe taxes on that 2nd half ( $ 25k ) of the funds converted for a whole extra year * spreading out that peak in income may allow me to avoid hitting a higher tax bracket , so I 'll pay less absolute taxes overall If you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket , that let 's you defer the payment of $ 6,250 ( 25 % of $ 25k taxable income deferred ) in taxes by one year . If you 're debt free and you had enough cash flow to cover that payment now , then at least you get to invest that money for another year . For others though , this deferral may be a deciding factor in whether they can afford to do the conversion at all , or allow them to pay down high interest debts ( almost always the highest-yielding investment decision a person can make ) . After Dec 31st of this year though , you have to take 100 % of the conversion as taxable income all in one year .
You do n't . Say you deposited $ 5000 . Then you converted $ 4950 to Roth . You declare $ 4950 as the amount converted and you 're done .
The closest American thing to Canadian TFSA were the Lifetime Savings Accounts ( LSA ) proposed during the first term of George W. Bush administration . LSA had many features of TFSA : after-tax contributions with an annual limit , tax-sheltered growth , tax-free withdrawals of both contributions and earnings at any time . ( The proposal was never enacted - here 's a politically-neutral explanation : LSA amounted to a tax cut on investment income and , considering the cost of tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 and two wars , it was very difficult for the Congress to pass such a proposal . ) Without LSA , Roth IRA is the closest thing . There is one important difference . From Roth IRA , you can only withdraw contributions in nominal dollars , not adjusted for inflation . Earnings can be withdrawn without penalty only in retirement . This condition makes Roth IRA suitable primarily for retirement savings . TFSA , due to their tax-free withdrawals , are suitable for saving and investment of any time horizon , from long-term retirement investing to saving for the next major purchase ( car , appliances , or home improvement ) .
Your question is meaningless as it is , because you do n't tell us if you 're likely to be in a higher bracket when you retire , or lower . However , I would argue that neither would be as beneficial for you as a Solo 401K account , as the limits for 401K contributions are much higher than IRA ( Roth or not Roth ) . There are plenty of questions on the topic on the right side of the screen , under " Related " , check them out .
I am sorry but this does not really answer your question , but people do n't typically do this . It is often recommended they do the opposite . They move money from a Tax free plan ( like a tradition or roll over IRA ) into a ROTH IRA . A Roth IRA is much better for a person that is young . With a ROTH you pay taxes now ( you already have ) , and withdraw tax free on the growth . You can maintain and continue to contribute to your ROTH while also participating in the 401K . ( Income limits the contribution but not the maintenance . ) It is typically recommended that you first contribute to your 401K up to the match . Lets assume that it is 6 % , but you want to save 15 % of your income for retirement . So 6 % would go to your 401K , then the next 9 % would go into your ROTH . You may then have to revisit your 401K to put more in to get to the 15 % you desire . To complicate matters many 401K plans offer a ROTH option . The money you put in will go in taxed , but the match will be taxed . If your 401K plan offers such a ROTH option , you may still want to go up to the match , then into your private ROTH , then round it out with the rest of the money in the 401K . Why ? Because your may want different investment option then the 401K offers . You may not be finding much info on this because it is such a bad plan . I think you believe that you have to do such based on some false assumptions . Good work on taking care of your future needs .
Putting money into a Roth IRA or 401 ( k ) will save you money if your taxes this year will be lower than your taxes in retirement . If you 're young and just starting your career , there 's a good chance of this in general . Even if you 're not , most people are anticipating tax increases in our nation 's future If you have a lot of expenses one year , e.g. for medical reasons , you may have to realize a significant amount of income that year , so having it be Roth money instead of regular can help avoid higher taxes . See also <URL>
According to the IRS SEP Plan FAQ you are allowed to max out both an SEP IRA as a self employed individual and a Roth or Traditional IRA . <URL> A SEP-IRA is a traditional IRA that holds contributions made by an employer under a SEP plan . You can both receive employer contributions to a SEP-IRA and make regular , annual contributions to a traditional or Roth IRA . Employer contributions made under a SEP plan do not affect the amount you can contribute to an IRA on your own behalf . ... Example 2 : Nancy , age 45 , is the owner and sole employee of JJ Investment Advisors . Nancy contributes the maximum allowable amount to her SEP-IRA for 2014 , or $ 52,000 . Nancy may also make regular , annual IRA contributions to her SEP-IRA , if her SEP-IRA allows this , or contribute to her Roth IRA at XYZ Investment Co. . Her total traditional IRA and Roth IRA contributions can not exceed $ 5,500 for 2014 and may be made in addition to her SEP contributions .
401 ( k ) withdrawals - early or otherwise - are not subject to FICA or Medicare taxes . That 's because <URL> when they were contributed . ( And of course , the earnings from the 401 ( k ) contributions are not earned income and thus are not subject to payroll taxes for that reason . ) While 401 ( k ) contributions are exempt from federal ( and generally state ) income taxes , they are n't exempt from payroll taxes - and as such , you 'll see two separate amounts on your W2 and paystub if you contributed : the amount that is subject to those taxes , and the amount that is subject to income tax . So , no , you do n't have to pay payroll ( FICA , Social Security ) taxes on your early withdrawal . As for the penalty , that is basically an extra tax - so if you withdraw $ 1000 , you pay income tax at your marginal rate plus 10 % penalty ; if your marginal rate is 25 % [ and you 're not moving across a rate step boundary ] , you will pay .
No . Even if you do n't need the additional salary income now , you might be able to contribute the incremental amount over the Roth max to either of the other two types of IRAs , or maybe even something else . You never want to take a lower salary , especially not in exchange for something that is conditional e.g. benefits . Your salary is the only thing that is guaranteed as a condition of employment . Other things can be changed by the employer at a future point in time . If you have two different job offers and the salaries are different , that is a separate scenario . You should make the decision based on overall comparison , not just using Roth limit contribution criteria .
It is typically very easy to roll a 401 ( k ) into an IRA . Companies that provide IRA 's are very experienced with it , and I would expect that they will take your calls from overseas . You will likely be able to do it over the internet without using a phone at all . Just open an IRA with any brokerage company ( Scottrade , Vanguard , Fidelity , Schwab , Ameritrade , etc. ) and follow instructions to roll your 401 ( k ) into it . Most likely they will need your signature , but usually a scan of a form you have filled out will do . Be sure to have information on your 401 ( k ) provider , including your account number there , on hand . These companies are all very reputable and this is not a difficult transaction . There 's really no downside to rolling into an IRA . 401 ( k ) plans usually have more limited options and/or worse fee structures and are frequently harder to work with , as you have observed .
Both types of plans offer a tax benefit . A traditional IRA allows you to invest pre-tax money into the account and it grows tax free . Once you withdraw the money it then gets taxed as though it were income based on the amount you withdraw for that calendar year . A Roth IRA has you invest post-tax money and also grows tax free . However , when you make withdraws in retirement that money is then tax free . Neither plan is right for everybody . If you have a very high income now and plan on being in a smaller tax bracket later when you 'll be making withdraws then the traditional IRA is better . If you will be in a higher bracket later , then the Roth IRA will serve you more . Depending on the way you manage your retirement investing you can likely invest in both if you are unsure as to which would be better . The same type of investments should be able to be nested within each type .
Your account is your account , hers is hers . The fact that you file taxes jointly does n't change that . The " I " in IRA stands for Individual . You can not merge them . There are certain conditions when you can withdraw your IRA penalty-free , check <URL> for some pointers .
You can contribute to Roth IRA regardless of the foreign income exclusion . You can contribute to Roth IRA only for amounts in excess to FEIE . However , the <URL> for Roth IRA contributions ignores the FEIE . So in your case , if you exclude your income , you would not be able to contribute to the IRA . You can not partially exclude the income . You either take the full exclusion , or none . So instead of exclusion , what you can do is chose to take a Foreign Tax Credit to reduce your US tax liability , and then you 'll be able to contribute to the IRA as you wish .
end question
start question
What precautions should I take when lending money to a friend ?
Just to go against the grain here . Sometimes , loaning money to friends is the right thing to do . For example , they had a loved one die , and need the money to cover funeral expenses until the life insurance pays out . Here , you may consider it your ethical duty to loan the money ( or you may not ) . It does not make sense from a financial point of view ( you are unlikely to charge interest and you are taking all the risk ) , but sometimes you put your financial prudence aside because " being a good person and a great friend " is more important . It is true that the general rule should be not to loan money to friends , and particularly never loan money you can not afford to lose . But there are exceptions to every rule . I 'll note that you may be best off with a plain-english , non-lawyery contract . Make it absolutely as simple as possible . As others have pointed out , specify a repayment date or schedule . Note what happens if they miss the deadline . Specify interest , if appropriate . Get it signed by you and the other person . And make sure you consider what happens if your friend does n't honour the agreement . For that kind of money , it is also worth considering collateral .
Emergency funds are good to keep yourself out of debt , for whatever reason . Job loss is a big place where an emergency fund can help you out . It buys you time to find another job before hauling out the credit cards for your groceries , falling behind on your mortgage and car payments , etc. . But it can just as easily be used for major car repairs , serious medical issues , home repairs , etc. ... anything that needs to be done quickly , and is n't a discretionary item . The bigger your cash reserves , the better , especially now that the economy is bad .
Never invest money you need in the short term . As already suggested , park your money in CDs .
Some features to be aware of are : Annual fee ( or lack thereof ) Payment network ( Visa/MasterCard/American Express/Discover/etc . ) Cash back/rewards rate ( i.e. , how much cash/rewards points you get per dollar charged ) Interest rate Foreign transaction fee Extra benefits ( e.g. , free FICO score , " purchase protection " where you can get a refund in certain circumstances , etc. ) Credit score requirements ( i.e. , how good your credit must be to obtain the card ) How you prioritize these features will depend on your specific circumstances . For instance , if your credit score is poor , you may have to choose among cards you can get with that score , and not have much choice on other dimensions . If you frequently travel abroad , a low or zero foreign transaction fee may be important ; if you never do , it probably does n't matter . If you always pay the balance in full , interest rate is less important than it is if you carry a balance . If you frequently travel by air , an airline card may be useful to you ; if you do n't , you may prefer some other kind of rewards , or cash back . Cards differ along numerous dimensions , especially in the " extra benefits " area , which is often the most difficult area to assess , because in many cases you ca n't get a full description of these extra benefits until after you get the card . A lot of the choice depends on your personal preferences ( e.g. , whether you want airline miles , rewards points of some sort , or cash back ) . Lower fees and interest rates are always better , but it 's up to you to decide if a higher fee of some sort outweighs the accompanying benefits ( e.g. , a better rewards rate ) . A useful site for finding good offers is <URL> .
Transactions are processed in batches because there 's multiple parties involved . There are two main steps : Authorization - that is what triggers the hold . The merchant through his own merchant account provider contacts the issuer of the card to ask whether the issuer would accept the transaction had it been submitted at that time . If the issuer would - the issuer gives an authorization code to the merchant , which is typically valid for 7-30 days ( depending on the type of the expected transaction ) . As long as the code is valid , the issuer would put a hold on the account in that amount to cover for the expected transaction . This is more of a " smoke test " for the merchant that the card is not stolen/canceled , that it is not over the limit , and that it is likely to be OK to accept it . Transaction - that 's the longer process and is usually not done online but rather in batch , typically nightly . The only thing happening right away ( even that not always ) would be the merchant recording the transaction and the authorization code . Once the transaction is processed by the merchant , it will then be submitted to the merchant account processor . This is done in batches , usually daily . The processor then credits the merchant account ( balancing all the refunds , chargebacks , ect ) . The processor then aggregates all the transactions and balances out its own cards ( if the processor is also an issuer ) . The transactions using cards issued by others are then submitted to the network ( Visa/Mastercard/etc ) . The network , in another batch , then balances out all the transactions for the processor ( balancing the amounts the processor is owed due to others ' cards being used in its merchants with what the processor owes for its cards being used with other processors ) . The network then distributes the transactions to the issuers to charge the accounts , which is also done in a batch - yet another . The issuers then accept that information and post the transactions to the respective accounts . When posting , the issuers match the authorization code recorded with the transaction to the authorization code attached to the hold , and remove the hold if there 's a match . Sometimes the merchant get authorization but do n't attach it to the transaction , and then you may end up with the transaction posted by the hold not removed automatically . As you can see , this is a multi-step process with multiple parties involved . Since at this stage money is actually changing hands - it can not be done online per transaction , since the volume would be enormous . It is done in batches , with only the aggregate balances moving around .
just pick a good bond and invest all your money there ( since they 're fairly low risk ) No . That is basically throwing away your money and why would you do that . And who told you they are low risk . That is a very wrong premise . What factors should I consider in picking a bond and how would they weigh against each other ? Quite a number of them to say , assuming these are n't government bonds ( US , UK etc ) How safe is the institution issuing the bond . Their income , business they are in , their past performance business wise and the bonds issued by them , if any . Check for the bond ratings issued by the rating agencies . Read the prospectus and check for any specific conditions i.e. bonds are callable , bonds can be retired under certain conditions , what happens if they default and what order will you be reimbursed ( senior debt take priority ) . Where are interest rates heading , which will decide the price you are paying for the bond . And also the yield you will derive from the bond . How do you intend to invest the income , coupon , you will derive from the bonds . What is your time horizon to invest in bonds and similarly the bond 's life . I have invested in stocks previously but realized that it is n't for me Bonds are much more difficult than equities . Stick to government bonds if you can , but they do n't generate much income , considering the low interest rates environment . Now that QE is over you might expect interest rates to rise , but you can only wait . Or go for bonds from stable companies i.e. GE , Walmart . And no I am not saying you buy their bonds in any imaginable way .
You do n't have many choices I am afraid . There is really only one option available to you at present and that is Folio-fn . It is a secondary market for p2p lending where you can buy and sell notes from both Lending Club and Prosper . Links are below : Lending Club : <URL> Prosper : <URL> Good luck . Hopefully Ohio will be added to the list of states that offer p2p lending some time soon .
If you feel comfortable taking an 8 % gain on your stocks , then yes , you should sell . It is generally a good idea to know when you want to sell ( either a price or % ) before you ever actually buy the stocks . That helps from getting emotional and making poor decisions .
One thing I would add to TTT 's answer : One of the benefits of using an LLC for your business is right there in the name - " limited liability " . It provides a level of protection for your personal assets should your business go bankrupt , get sued , and so forth . However , if someone can show that there 's no real separation between your LLC 's activities and your personal activities , then they can <URL> and go after your personal assets . If this loan is really purely personal and not related to your business activities , you may create a paper trail that can later be used in this way . My advice would be to just avoid the whole thing and make the loan from personal funds . I do n't see any upside to doing this out of the LLC funds .
It 's because financing can fall through , and then the time between offer and closing is wasted . Often buyers will include preapprovals and other evidence of financing eligibility with their offer for this reason .
It depends on the countries involved ... The ATM or Credit cards are expensive options in terms of rates ... The best deals are with the currency exchange counters [ not at airport ] at some busy places ... One needs to find out which is stronger currency , ie is the demand more for foreign currency or local currency ... For example if you have USD and are travelling from US to any Asian countries , it makes sense to exchange the USD in the local Asian countries as the demand for USD is more in these local markets , it would be a bad idea for excahange this in US [ for some currencies the option may also not be available ] If you are trying to exchange between 2 equally strong currencies [ say USD , GBP , EUR , etc ] then it doesnt matter much where you get it changed ... One also needs to consider local practises , for example in UK , most currency houses charge a Conversion fee above the rate making it a very bad deal .
There two answers , either never or now ; which one is correct for you really depends on how you view the debt , and your discipline of paying it off . As mentioned by @Vitalik , your absolute cheapest alternative may well be to keep the debt in your line of credit and merely pay it off . The fact that it is a higher interest rate than your mortgage may help to focus your pay-back to as short a time as possible . If you pay back the debt over say a year , the overall paid interest may well be lower than if you had instead increased your mortgage . You could do a simple interest-rate calculation to determine if this is the case , using the difference between your credit-line rate and your mortgage rate . ( Also to take into account , is any tax implications - I understand that in the USA mortgage payments are somehow tax deductable ? ) If on the other hand , you do not plan to pay back the debt quickly , then you are certainly better off getting it moved to the lower-rate mortgage right away . Do be aware of a subtle trap , however : you may lull yourself into a false sense of security as to the absolute amount of money you can borrow and owe . If you were to again run up your credit line , because it is available , you may find yourself in a worse situation than you meant to . Doing this kind of credit-line to mortgage probably makes sense for durable assets , like a house addition or renovation , but I would personally recommend against it for even something like a car purchase , as you can end up paying more over time .
Whether or not you have money in your account will not necessarily stop them withdrawing the money , and it certainly wo n't stop them attempting to withdraw the money . There are two possible scenarios when they attempt to withdraw the money ( as they surely will ) : The bank refuses the withdrawal : you still owe them the money , you may also owe additional late payment fees , the bank may also charge you for a refused payment . If you continue to refuse to pay they could sue you for it . The bank permits the withdrawal : they get their money , you may then owe fees or charges to the bank for the ( unauthorised ? ) overdraft . I think you are just lucky they have n't attempted the withdrawal yet . Put the necessary money into your account now if you possibly can , and consider this a slightly expensive lesson learned about following the Ts and Cs when cancelling services .
@DJClayworth mentioned the spousal RRSP , and that 's a good option if you are the one with available contribution room and/or you want the tax deduction in your name . But , a spousal RRSP account needs to be separately established . That is , you ca n't contribute to your spouse 's existing regular RRSP account while at the same time using your contribution room and you getting the deduction . The other option not requiring a new account : If your spouse has sufficient contribution room of her own , and you yourself do n't need the tax deduction on your income tax return , there 's another approach : Gift your spouse the money to contribute to her own RRSP . This would require your spouse to have available RRSP contribution room of her own , and your spouse will receive the tax deduction , not you . ( Again , bear in mind that for the HBP , funds need to be in the RRSP for at least 90 days . )
It 's complicated . Really , there 's no solid answer for your question . Everybody 's risk tolerance and time horizon is going to be different . Those who can take on more risk can take on lower-grade C-G loans at Lending Club . Those with less risk tolerance should emphasize As and Bs .
It depends how much risk you 're prepared to accept . The short-term risk-free rate of return at present is something in the vicinity of 0.1 % ( three month US treasuries are currently yielding 0.08 % ) , so anything paying a higher rate on money that 's accessible quickly will involve some degree of risk -- the higher the rate then the higher the risk .
There really is n't a way to do it that much more quickly . Some major factors to help you build credit : 1 . Pay on time : Late payments will kill your rating . 2 . Keep accounts open a long time : The average age of your credit accounts is a big factor . 3 . Keep the balances on each credit account low as a % of your line . Try not to go over 50 % of your credit limit , even if you pay in full every month . 4 . Open different kinds of loan accounts ( credit cards , mortgage , auto , etc. ) 5 . Having a lot of new credit accounts hurts you , unfortunately . Luckily # 1 and # 2 , the ones you have the most immediate control over , make up over 55 % of your total score .
The big issue I can see is foreign exchange risk - if you 've got the money in the US and you need it in Australia , you 're vulnerable to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the two currencies . I would think that if you 're expecting to go back to the US , you might want to leave some money in the US ( to guard against the AU$ falling against the US$ ) ; if you 're not planning to go back you 're probably better off moving the money with you unless you expect the USD to appreciate considerably against the AUD anytime soon . The picture changes slightly if you still have expenses in the US , like paying for a mortgage , or repairs to a property there or something similar , as you 're probably better off leaving part of the money in the US to get rid of both the exchange rate losses and currency risk .
As AskAboutGadgets notes , there 's no lower age limit . You current age ( 24 ) is a pretty good one ; you 'll have four decades or so for your money to grow and compound , allowing it to become a veritable fortune when you 're ready to retire if you invest it fairly aggressively .
Yes and no , <URL> is similar concept but is more geared towards business loans . <URL> used to offer this service but has stopped .
end question
start question
Should I/Can I consolidate multiple company pensions ?
Yes , you should consider it . You should not necessarily do it though . You will need to investigate the management charges and performance on each scheme , as well as transfer penalties and whether your current scheme actually permits transfers in . Unfortunately the only way to do this is to dig through the small print for each scheme you are a member of ( and probably to look online for most recent charges and performance info ) . This is not a simple undertaking and many people opt not to bother . However , it is almost certainly the case that the older schemes are invested in funds with higher charges and/or poorer performance , so if you can bring yourself to put in the research it is probably worth it . The risk of course is that with all your eggs in one basket , if something goes horribly wrong you end up with insufficient pension . On the other hand , if your current scheme has more in it and you have relatively small amounts stagnating in the old schemes , then this is a low risk . Finally , you might want to consider taking out a personal or stakeholder pension instead and asking your employers if they would consider contributing to that rather than setting up yet another scheme , especially if you move jobs again .
Welcome to Personal Finance and Money . This answer will depend a lot on what is most important to the buyer , for example , whether it is important to always be in a newer car , to save money , or strike a balance between the two . There are trade-offs and I do n't think there is one right answer for all circumstances . Leasing Leasing does make financial sense for at least two types of people I 'm aware of : The company I work for provides company cars to sales executives , which we lease . We lease because it would n't be appropriate for a salesperson to meet a client in a car that clearly appears used . Similarly , I know people who value being in a newer car all the time , and for them , leasing makes more financial sense then buying a new car every 2-3 years , and selling their old car which is now 2-3 years old and has depreciated significantly . They understand that they are paying more to always be able to be in a newer car . I used to work with a manager who , every time the new model of the car he owned came out , would see the car and buy it on the spot , even though he already owned last year 's model , and he did n't need two cars . He just could n't help himself ; he felt he had to have the new model . It 's no use sermonizing about how he " should " learn to save money by just being content with what he had . In reality , if he is going to buy the new model every year no matter what , he should lease rather than buy . From my experience , I would only recommend leasing if you would otherwise be buying a new car on a regular basis , and the lease would be less expensive . This is probably the most cost effective way to maintain the highest possible quality , but would cost much more than buying and holding a new car or buying a value used car . I do n't see reliability as much of a factor here since the seller will have a very good idea of how much maintenance will cost , but you will pay a premium to be able to pay a fixed cost for maintenance instead of risking a worse-than-average experience . Buying New According to Edmunds and BIGResearch , only a relatively small number of people are ever in the market for a new car at a given point in time . While you do pay quite a bit more to own a brand new car instead of the same car that is 2-3 years old , there are several reasons I 'm aware of why people buy new cars : They value features not available on older models , such as technology or safety features They want the styling of a specific new model and are n't open to considering other models They are able to get financing and are making a decision based on their monthly payment rather than the total cost of the loan ( special note - there is no such thing as 0 % financing - you are n't getting free financing , the bank and auto dealer have just built their profit into the base price of the car , which you could negotiate down if you paid cash ) They want to avoid the uncertainty of buying a used car in unknown condition from a seller of unknown trustworthiness . Number 4 is probably the biggest reason , and many people are willing to pay for the certainty of knowing that the miles are correct , the parts are new , the car is in good working condition , etc. . Additionally , some makes of cars have much higher resale values than others ( such as Hondas ) , meaning that there is n't as large of a drop in price between a new car and a used car . Many people consider buying a new car the best way to ensure they get the best reliability since they know the initial condition of the car and can care for it meticulously from that point on . This can especially make sense when the buyer intends to keep the car for the like of the car as the buyer will then benefit from having no car payments once it is paid off . Buying Used Buying a used car is the most affordable option , but for a given quality of car the reliability can be a significant potential pitfall . It can be very difficult for a non-professional to tell whether they are getting a good value . Additionally , it is hard for an owner who wants to sell a used car in excellent condition to get the true value of the car , and much easier for an unscrupulous seller to to get the market price by selling to an unaware buyer ( the " lemons " problem in economics ) . You could buy an inspected car with a limited warranty from a retail seller like CarMax or a dealership , but you often pay a significant premium that cancels out much of the biggest reason to buy used - saving money . However , there is an opportunity to save money when buying used if you 're willing to compromise on the condition of the car ( if you do n't care whether a car has hail damage , for example ) , or if you are able to wait until you find a motivated/distressed seller who needs to sell quickly and is willing to sell at a discount . If cost is your primary priority , buying a used car is likely the best option , but I would recommend the following in all circumstances : Pay an independent mechanic to perform a full inspection Request that the seller
If you are refering to company 's financial reports and offerings , the required source for companies to disclose the information is the SGX website ( www.sgx.com ) under the Company Disclosure tab . This includes annual statements for the last 5 years , prospectus for any shares/debentures/buy back/etc which is being offered , IPO offers and shareholders meetings . You may also find it useful to check the Research section of the SGX website where some of the public listed companies have voluntarily allowed independent research firms to monitor their company for a couple of years and produce a research report . If you are referring to filings under the Companies Act , these can be found at the Accounting and Regulatory Authority ( ACRA ) website ( www.acra.gov.sg ) and you can also purchase extracts of specific filings under the ACRA iShop . To understand the Singapore public listing system and the steps to public listing , you may find it useful to purchase one of the resource documents available for Singapore law , finance , tax and corporate secretaryship which are sold by CCH ( www.cch.com.sg ) . Specifically for public listing the Singapore Annotated Listing Manual may help . It is common practice for companies here to employ law firms and research firms to do the majority of this research instead of doing it themselves which I one of the reasons this information is online but perhaps not so visible . I hope I have understood your question correctly !
With BofA , you can just enter their address and it will mail them a check instead of needing to wire it to them . You do n't need your landlords permission to do this ( just let him know to expect the check in the mail ) . I did this for years , and other than the fact that the arrival date may vary by a day or two ( presumably due to mail or processing delays ) , had no issues with it . It is a great way to make sure your rent is paid on time ( if you 've got till the 5th , just set it up for the 1st and you should be fine ) . The same is true of most other banks who have online bill payment , with the main difference being the time variability of delivery . I 've not come across any that charge for this . It even saves you the cost of a stamp , envelope , and check . Update : There are also some marginal difference between banks about how records are kept and when the amount is deducted from your account . The records keeping probably works to your advantage if they ever claim you missed a payment ( you have record it was sent , even if they never cash it ) . The variation in deduction from your account ( i.e. when it is sent vs when it is cashed ) could play out different ways and is n't anything that big to worry about .
Honestly I would look for a house you can afford and one that is below the maximum amount of what they are willing to lend you . The reason is owning a house is not a quick loan that you can pay off in a year or two ( unless you 're rich then I would question why are you even bothering with a loan ) . This is a long term commitment ; can you honestly say your job will provide the money for the mortgage , the upkeep and remodeling of the house ( even if it 's the perfect house you will want to change something , make the bathroom bigger , put in a pool table etc. . etc. . ) , living expenses and any hiccups life throws at you ? Like most of us , that answer will be no . Always have money and supplies for that rainy day , for those lean days . For that mortgage payment . And if nothing happens you can always use the money to pay the mortgage off faster or take a vacation .
In the old version of the plan you were flipping the stock very quickly . Some of the money was tied up for almost 90 days , some for only a few weeks . The risk that the stock would fall enough to cause you to lose money was small , but not zero . Therefore you felt comfortable with risking several hundred dollars a paycheck . The general advice is to not make the current company you work for a significant portion of your net worth because if the company suffers a disaster you can lose both the money and your job . How much is at risk ? Assume 7 checks per quarter @ $ 200 / check deposited . In the old program you had $ 1400 at risk but you owned ~ $ 1650 in stock . Under the new plan in the first quarter you will still deposit $ 1400 but while waiting for the 6 month window you will deposit another $ 2800 . By the time the first sell date occurs you will now have $ 4200 at risk , but you will own ~ 4950 in stock . The question is would you be willing to invest $ 4200 today in your company stock knowing that you ca n't sell for 6 to 9 months ? If that is too much of your net worth to put at risk , then you might have to look at some other way to allocate your money . Note : I do n't consider what you were doing as an investment . You found a way to generate some income each quarter . They are now changing the rules to make that a much riskier proposition , especially if the goal was income generation . The company may be trying to discourage participation in the new program .
What is your investing goal ? And what do you mean by investing ? Do you necessarily mean investing in the stock market or are you just looking to grow your money ? Also , will you be able to add to that amount on a regular basis going forward ? If you are just looking for a way to get $ 100 into the stock market , your best option may be <URL> . ( DRIP stands for Dividend Re-Investment Plan . ) The idea is that you buy shares in a company ( typically directly from the company ) and then the money from the dividends are automatically used to buy additional fractional shares . Most DRIP plans also allow you to invest additional on a monthly basis ( even fractional shares ) . The advantages of this approach for you is that many DRIP plans have small upfront requirements . I just looked up Coca-cola 's and they have a $ 500 minimum , but they will reduce the requirement to $ 50 if you continue investing $ 50/month . The fees for DRIP plans also generally fairly small which is going to be important to you as if you take a traditional broker approach too large a percentage of your money will be going to commissions . Other stock DRIP plans may have lower monthly requirements , but do n't make your decision on which stock to buy based on who has the lowest minimum : you only want a stock that is going to grow in value . They primary disadvantages of this approach is that you will be investing in a only a single stock ( I do n't believe that can get started with a mutual fund or ETF with $ 100 ) , you will be fairly committed to that stock , and you will be taking a long term investing approach . The Motley Fool investing website also has some information on DRIP plans : <URL> . It 's a fairly old article , but I imagine that many of the links still work and the principles still apply If you are looking for a more medium term or balanced investment , I would advise just opening an online savings account . If you can grow that to $ 500 or $ 1,000 you will have more options available to you . Even though savings accounts do n't pay significant interest right now , they can still help you grow your money by helping you segregate your money and make regular deposits into savings .
Only if your work on the side is making you at least # 60,000 profit a year . The overheads are just not worth it if you make less . Working as a sole trader , you can still claim for expenses incurred in the course of your business . You can also claim a percentage of your computer costs , even though you may use the computer for gaming . This is not unreasonable as the computer is necessary for your work . The Inland Revenue accept the fact that some assets are part work-related . In your case , as a web and mobile phone developer , I expect the percentage to be at least half , if not a lot more . If you need to travel in the course of your work you can claim a percentage for your car . You can include other small expenses such as telephone , stationery , electricity etc but do n't go overboard . The important point to remember is that you must be able to defend the expenses claimed as work-related , so long as you can do this there is no problem . Remember to keep good records of all your expenses . This is on-going throughout the year and is much more work than filling out your tax return . The software on the IR <URL> site is excellent , so it 's conceivable that you may not need an accountant if you are prepared to do your own tax return . However , if you feel unsure employ an accountant initially and take it from there .
Vested shares belong to you . Their value was recognized as your salary when they vested , and from that point on these are just shares that you own .
No , sorry . A change of 401 ( k ) administrator is not an out , otherwise many would flee a bad plan . I 'd suggest you only deposit up to the match , but use an IRA if you 'd like to save more . A plan with high fees can easily negate the tax benefits and then some .
According to <URL> : Loans can only be re-consolidated if the borrower has a new loan to add . ABC News <URL> : In 2006 , Congress eliminated joint consolidation loans for married couples So it would seem that you can consolidate her loans into one or two loans , but those can not be combined with yours .
Did some research and it appears they can be mailed together . Here are the instructions for how the IRS processes when multiple forms are in the same envelope . Occasionally multiple forms 1040/A/EZ / X are attached . For example : Two or more returns from the same taxpayer are mailed in the same envelope Two or more family members ' returns are mailed by the tax preparer in the same envelope Two or more unrelated returns are mailed by the tax preparer in the same envelope Note : Detach the returns leaving an action trail on each document , then sort , work or route the returns as appropriate . <URL> However , the IRS is tracking an issue in their issue system about multiple filings in the same envelope and several getting marked as late . IMRS 10-0001371 -- Multiple Forms 7004 ( Request for Extension ) mailed in one envelope Issue : A tax professional mailed multiple Forms 7004 ( Request for Extension ) in one envelope to Ogden , postmarked 3/15/10 . Six of these were rejected , with the taxpayer receiving Form 6513 stating the extension was not approved because it was filed after the date the return was due . <URL> So because the IRS has had a recent problem with multiple filings in the same envelope , I would go ahead and use more than one envelope .
As far as I know , the answer to this is generally " no . " The closest thing would be to identify the stock transfer company representing the company that you want to hold and buy through them . ( I have held this way , but I do n't know if it 's available on all stocks . ) This eliminates the broker , but there 's still a " middle man " in the transfer company . Note this section from the <URL> Wikipedia article : A public company usually only designates one company to transfer its stock . Stock transfer agents also run annual meetings as inspector of elections , proxy voting , and special meetings of shareholders . They are considered the official keeper of the corporate shareholder records . The decision to have a single transfer company is a practical one , ensuring that there is one entity responsible for recording this data - Hence even if you could buy stock " directly " from the company that you want to own , it would likely still get routed through the transfer company for recording .
Nothing is stopping you from opening up Roth IRAs in different companies and contributing the maximum to each one , but if you do n't withdraw contributions ( and any earnings generated by the withdrawn contributions while within the IRA ) so as to leave a total contribution of $ 5500 for 2013 , then Yes , you will be penalized . You do not report contributions to a Roth IRA on your tax return , but companies report to the IRS on the IRA accounts they hold , and the contributions and withdrawals/distributions made each year into each IRA account . Each company will send you a copy of the form that it sent in to the IRS so you wo n't be blind-sided in this matter . You will then get a letter from the IRS informing you that you have to pay penalties ( the technical term is a 6 % excise tax ) for over-contributing to your IRA . If you obdurately refuse to remove the excess contributions ( and any earnings generated by the excess contributions ) , that tax will be assessed in the years following too , until the matter is set right . . Note also that the maximum allowable contribution is reduced ( and ultimately eliminated entirely ) for people with high Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) . Some people make a contribution to a Roth IRA each year but then withdraw it in timely fashion when they discover that their MAGI is too high ( often during the preparation of their income tax returns ) .
You did not state which country you were referring to , so I 'm going to assume Canada . Obviously , the standard approach if you accidentally rip a $ 100 bill in half would be to tape the two halves together . Failing that , though , the Bank of Canada will still accept damaged bills . A torn bill consisting of more than three-fifths of the note is worth full value . A bill is worth half if between 40 % and 60 % of the bill remains intact . It is worth nothing if less than this remains intact . This information comes from <URL> and <URL> ( The Great Canadian Trivia Book by Ray and Kearney ) . In your example , each half would be worth $ 50 . You would not be able to profit from this approach . Indeed , I know of no country where you could profit from this approach , for obvious reasons .
You need to file an amended return with the IRS . You can find details <URL> . I believe you 'd file the 1040X and the NR . Attach the 1040NR to the 1040X . More detailed instructions can be found <URL> .
The stockholders of company A vote to approve or disapprove the buy out . That is the only control you have on the price : Vote to approve or disapprove . If the deal is approved then you get the money , or stock in B , or both , in accordance with the terms of the deal . It will arrive into your account automatically .
The prices are not correlated by the exchanges , but there a host of arbitragers out there who will immediately pounce if the prices drift out of line by the slightest fraction , buying on the cheaper exchange while simultaneously selling on the more expensive exchange , and in practice this keeps the prices the same .
Most of this content is gleaned from <URL> : There is no need to notify the insurance company about this situation , however there are some rules and liabilities to be aware of before you lend the car to someone . In case of an accident , your insurance will be used meaning YOUR deductible and , if damages exceed your coverage , you could be liable for additional damages . According to Geico , a large US-based insurer <URL> , " you should ask a few more questions before letting another driver head into the sunset in your vehicle -- or before borrowing someone else 's ride . " If you 're loaning out your car , ask : Is the borrower licensed to drive ? If they 're visiting from out of state , you do n't need to worry . If they have a driver 's license from another country , check your state 's requirements -- the driver may need to apply for an International Driving Permit before he or she arrives in the U.S. Does the borrower have a good driving record ? If they have a history of fender benders and you keep your vehicle in pristine condition , it 's OK to not hand over the keys . Is my insurance up to date ? Every state requires a minimum level of auto insurance coverage , and some stipulate that in case of an accident , the car owner 's auto insurance -- not the driver 's -- provides primary coverage . ( So if the driver rear-ends someone or bumps another car in a parking lot and your insurance has lapsed , you could be liable for damages . ) Depending on your state 's regulations , you may also want to verify whether the driver has his or her own car insurance . What do they plan to use the car for ? If it 's any kind of commercial activity , like driving for a ridesharing program , you 'll need to check your auto insurance policy . Again , in many states , the car owner 's auto insurance provides primary coverage . If the car is being driven for commercial purposes and you only have a personal policy , you may not have sufficient coverage . Additionally : Will the borrower use the car regularly ? Your newly licensed teenager may phrase it as ' borrowing ' the car , but if they 're using it to go to sports practice or the mall every weekend ( and live in your household ) , you should add them to your insurance policy as a regular user .
The company does n't necessarily have to go public . They can also be worth money if the company is acquired . Also keep in mind that even if the company does eventually go public , your shares can essentially be wiped out by a round of pre-IPO funding that gives the company a low valuation . You could ask : what is the size of the employee pool ? how many classes are outstanding ? was the last round up or down ? what is the mechanism to exercise your options ? can you exercise whenever you want ?
end question
start question
Importance of dividend yield when evaluating a stock ?
But I wish to know why the parameter is dividend/market price rather than just ' dividend ' ? What ' extra ' info you can uncover by looking at dividend/market price that you can not get from ' dividend ' ? Consider two stocks A and B . A offers a dividend of $ 1 per year . B offers a dividend of $ 2 per year . Let 's remove all complications aside and assume that this trend continues . If you were to buy each of these stocks you will get the following amounts over its life ( assumed infinity for simplicity ) : cash flows from A = $ 1 / ( 0.04 ) = $ 25 , assuming risk free is 4 % per annum cash flows from B = $ 2 / ( 0.04 ) = $ 50 , assuming risk free is 4 % per annum The price you buy them at is an important factor to consider because let 's say if A was trading for $ 10 and B for $ 60 , then A would look like a profitable nvestment while B wo n't . Of course , this is a very simplistic view . Dividend rates are not constant and many companies pose a significant risk of going bust but this should help illustrate the general idea behind the D/P ratio . P.S. : - The formula I have used is one for computing the NPV of a <URL> .
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 501/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 501/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
Yes , you still need to pay income tax on your capital gain regardless of whether you converted your USD proceeds back into CAD . When you calculate your gains for tax purposes , you 'll need to convert all of your gains to Canadian dollars . Generally speaking , CRA will expect you to use a <URL> . At that page , notice the remark at right : Are the Exchange Rates Shown Here Accepted by Canada Revenue Agency ? Yes . The Agency accepts Bank of Canada exchange rates as the basis for calculations involving income and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies .
Investors who are themselves Canadian and already hold Canadian dollars ( CAD ) would be more likely to purchase the TSX-listed shares that are quoted in CAD , thus avoiding the currency exchange fees that would be required to buy USD-quoted shares listed on the NYSE . Assuming Shopify is only offering a single class of shares to the public in the IPO ( and <URL> only mentions Class A subordinate voting shares as being offered ) then the shares that will trade on the TSX and NYSE will be the same class , i.e. identical . Consequently , the primary difference will be the currency in which they are quoted and trade . This adds another dimension to possible arbitrage , where not only the bare price could deviate between exchanges , but also due to currency fluctuation . An additional implication for a company to maintain such a dual listing is that they 'll need to adhere to the requirements of both the TSX and NYSE . While this may have a hard cost in terms of additional filing requirements etc. , in theory they will benefit from the additional liquidity provided by having the multiple listings . Canadians , in particular , are more likely to invest in a Canadian company when it has a TSX listing quoted in CAD . Also , for a company listed on both the TSX and NYSE , I would expect the TSX listing would be more likely to yield inclusion in a significant market index -- say , one based on market capitalization , and thus benefit the company by having its shares purchased by index ETFs and index mutual funds that track the index . I 'll also remark that this dual U.S. / Canadian exchange listing is not uncommon when it comes to Canadian companies that have significant business outside of Canada .
When you want to short a stock , you are trying to sell shares ( that you are borrowing from your broker ) , therefore you need buyers for the shares you are selling . The ask prices represent people who are trying to sell shares , and the bid prices represent people who are trying to buy shares . Using your example , you could put in a limit order to short ( sell ) 1000 shares at $ 3.01 , meaning that your order would become the ask price at $ 3.01 . There is an ask price ahead of you for 500 shares at $ 3.00 . So people would have to buy those 500 shares at $ 3.00 before anyone could buy your 1000 shares at $ 3.01 . But it 's possible that your order to sell 1000 shares at $ 3.01 never gets filled , if the buyers do n't buy all the shares ahead of you . The price could drop to $ 1.00 without hitting $ 3.01 and you will have missed out on the trade . If you really wanted to short 1000 shares , you could use a market order . Let 's say there 's a bid for 750 shares at $ 2.50 , and another bid for 250 shares at $ 2.49 . If you entered a market order to sell 1000 shares , your order would get filled at the best bid prices , so first you would sell 750 shares at $ 2.50 and then you would sell 250 shares at $ 2.49 . I was just using your example to explain things . In reality there wo n't be such a wide spread between the bid and ask prices . A stock might have a bid price of $ 10.50 and an ask price of $ 10.51 , so there would only be a 1 cent difference between putting in a limit order to sell 1000 shares at $ 10.51 and just using a market order to sell 1000 shares and getting them filled at $ 10.50 . Also , your example probably would n't work in real life , because brokers typically do n't allow people to short stocks that are trading under $ 5 per share . As for your question about how often you are unable to make a short sale , it can sometimes happen with stocks that are heavily shorted and your broker may not be able to find any more shares to borrow . Also remember that you can only short stocks with a margin account , you can not short stocks with a cash account .
The idea of an index is that it is representative of the market ( or a specific market segment ) as a whole , so it will move as the market does . Thus , past performance is not really relevant , unless you want to bank on relative differences between different countries ' economies . But that 's not the point . By far the most important aspect when choosing index funds is the ongoing cost , usually expressed as Total Expense Ratio ( TER ) , which tells you how much of your investment will be eaten up by trading fees and to pay the funds ' operating costs ( and profits ) . This is where index funds beat traditional actively managed funds - it should be below 0.5 % The next question is how buying and selling the funds works and what costs it incurs . Do you have to open a dedicated account or can you use a brokerage account at your bank ? Is there an account management fee ? Do you have to buy the funds at a markup ( can you get a discount on it ) ? Are there flat trading fees ? Is there a minimum investment ? What lot sizes are possible ? Can you set up a monthly payment plan ? Can you automatically reinvest dividends/coupons ? Then of course you have to decide which index , i.e. which market you want to buy into . My answer in the other question apparently did n't make it clear , but I was talking only about stock indices . You should generally stick to broad , established indices like the MSCI World , S&amp;P 500 , Euro Stoxx , or in Australia the All Ordinaries . Among those , it makes some sense to just choose your home country 's main index , because that eliminates currency risk and is also often cheaper . Alternatively , you might want to use the opportunity to diversify internationally so that if your country 's economy tanks , you wo n't lose your job and see your investment take a dive . Finally , you should of course choose a well-established , reputable issuer . But this is n't really a business for startups ( neither shady nor disruptively consumer-friendly ) anyway .
I think you are mixing up forward looking statements with the actual results . The funds objective The fund invests primarily in stocks that tend to offer current dividends . It focuses on high-quality companies that have prospects for long-term total returns as a result of their ability to grow earnings and their willingness to increase dividends over time Obviously in 1993 quite a few companies paid the dividends and hence VDIGX was able to give dividends . Over the period of years in some years its given more and in some years less . For example the Year 2000 it gave $ 1.26 , 1999 it gave $ 1.71 and in 1998 it gave $ 1.87 The current economic conditions are such that companies are not making huge profts and the one 's that are making prefer not to distribute dividends and hold on to cash as it would help survive the current economic conditions . So just to clarify this particular funds objective is to invest in companies that would give dividends which is then passed on to fund holders . This fund does not sell appreciated stocks to convert it into dividends .
In this scenario the date of income is the date on which the contract has been signed , even if you received the actual money ( settlement ) later . Regardless of the NY special law for residency termination - that is the standard rule for recognition of income during a cash ( not installments ) sale . The fact that you got the actual money later does n't matter , which is similar to selling stocks on a public exchange . When you sell stocks through your broker on a public exchange - you still recognize the income on the day of the sale , not on the day of the settlement . This is called " the Constructive Receipt doctrine " . The <URL> has this to say about the constructive receipt : Constructive receipt . Income is constructively received when an amount is credited to your account or made available to you without restriction . You need not have possession of it . If you authorize someone to be your agent and receive income for you , you are considered to have received it when your agent receives it . Income is not constructively received if your control of its receipt is subject to substantial restrictions or limitations . Once you signed the contract , the money has essentially been credited to your account with the counter-party , and unless they 're bankrupt or otherwise insolvent - you have no restrictions over it . And also ( more specifically for your case ) : You can not hold checks or postpone taking possession of similar property from one tax year to another to postpone paying tax on the income . You must report the income in the year the property is received or made available to you without restriction . Timing wire transfer is akin to holding and not depositing a check , from this perspective . So unless there was a restriction that was lifted after you moved out of New York , I doubt you can claim that you could n't have received it before moving out , i.e. : you have , in fact , constructively received it .
The simplest was is to just divide your total dividends for the year by your starting capital for that year . For example , if you start with $ 100000 in capital and earn $ 5000 in dividends during the year your dividend yield for that year would be 5 % . Even if you have n't fully invested your total capital during the year it is still available to be invested and the total should be used for the calculation . Once the year has ended you will have a new balance for you capital , which is the value you should use in the following year . An alternative to this calculation is to use your average capital for the year , add your starting and ending capital values and divide by 2 . You may want to use this method if you trade often during the year instead of buying all your investments only at the start of the year . Also , another thing to consider is whether you include the dividends as additions to your capital or if you withdrawal dividends when they are paid for your own cashflow . If you reinvest your dividends , then they should be included as part of your capital .
When there is a difference between the two ... no trading occurs . Let 's look at an example : Investor A , B , C , and D all buy/sell shares of company X. Investor A wants to sell 10 shares at $ 20 a share ( Ask price $ 20 x10 ) . Investor B wants to buy 15 shares at $ 10 a share ( Bid price $ 10 x15 ) . Since the bid price and ask price are different , no sale is made . Next Investor C comes along and wants to sell 5 shares at $ 14 ( Ask price $ 14 x5 ) . Still no sale . Investor D comes along and wants to buy 5 shares for $ 14 each . So a sale is finally made . At this point , the stock quote moves to $ 14 . The ask price is $ 20 x10 and the bid price is $ 10 x15 . No further trading will occur until another investor is willing to buy at $ 20 or sell at $ 10 . Another discussion of this topic is shown on <URL> .
No , that link shows returns for an index and not a fund ! Note at the bottom : Index performance is provided as a benchmark . It is not illustrative of any particular investment . An investment can not be made in an index . What format would you expect the dividends to actually be handled as some old Unit Investment Trusts would just collect the dividends as cash while some mutual funds may re-invest the proceeds right away ? <URL> has this part on page 539 : The dividends must be retained as cash and invested , in effect in money market instruments until the dividend payment is made . Thus , while you may think your question is simple there are more than a few ways to go . <URL> has this : Annual total returns are calculated on a calendar-year and year-to-date basis . Total return includes both capital appreciation and dividends . The year-to-date return is updated daily . For mutual funds , return includes both income ( in the form of dividends or interest payments ) and capital gains or losses ( the increase or decrease in the value of a security ) . Morningstar calculates total return by taking the change in a fund 's NAV , assuming the reinvestment of all income and capital gains distributions ( on the actual reinvestment date used by the fund ) during the period , and then dividing by the initial NAV . Unless marked as load-adjusted total returns , Morningstar does not adjust total return for sales charges or for redemption fees . Total returns do account for management , administrative , and 12b-1 fees and other costs automatically deducted from fund assets .
<URL> has this definition of duration : The duration number is a complicated calculation involving present value , yield , coupon , final maturity and call features . Fortunately for investors , this indicator is a standard data point provided in the presentation of comprehensive bond and bond mutual fund information . The bigger the duration number , the greater the interest-rate risk or reward for bond prices . As for Yield Type , I suspect C would be Coupon bonds while M would be bonds that the interest would be paid at Maturity .
This is a gross simplification as there are a few different ways to do this . The principle overall is the same though . To short a stock , you borrow X shares from a third party and sell them at the current price . You now owe the lender X shares but have the proceeds from the sale . If the share price falls you can buy back those shares at the new lower price , return them to the lender and pocket the difference . The risk comes when the share price goes the other way , you now owe the lender the new value of the shares , so have to find some way to cover the difference . This happened a <URL> when Porsche made a fortune buying shares in Volkswagen from short sellers , and the price unexpectedly rose .
If you have $ 10000 and wish to buy 1000 shares of a $ 10 stock , you risk borrowing on margin if you go over a bit . For some people , that 's a non-issue . Some folk with an account worth say , $ 250K do n't mind going over now and then or even let the margin account run $ 100K on a regular basis . But your question is about market orders . A limit order above the market price will fast-fill at the market anyway . When I buy a stock , it 's longer term usually . A dime on a $ 30 share price wo n't affect my buy decision , so market is ok for me .
Call the CBOE , the Chicago Board of Options Exchange I 've requested options on several IPOs in the past . You mainly have to convince them that there is a market for them ( or they wo n't be inclined to provide liquidity ) . The CBOE could talk to the company in question to help convince them , or the CBOE will just tell you when the options will begin trading . Oh yeah , sometimes they 'll ask you who you work for , just try to avoid that question , they do n't like to talk to individual/retail investors .
Yes , there are situations where a stock is a bad buy in spite of a low PE . PE ratio tells you the current share price divided by the prior 4 quarters earnings per share . It does not consider : assets liabilities sustainability of the business competitive threats management competence management integrity cash flow dozens of other things crucial to an investment decision Imagine someone walked up to you and said , " Do you want to buy a piece of my business ? I 'll sell you 1 % of it for $ 1000 . Last year the business earned $ 25000 . " A quick calculation shows a PE of 4 [ $ 1000 / ( $ 25000 * .01 ) ] . Even though this PE is comparatively low , you would n't buy in without a lot more info . What kinds of things might you ask ? What kind business is it ? Who are your competitors ? Who is leading the business ? Can I trust the leaders ? What assets does it have ? What liabilities does it owe ? What will the business look like in 10 years ? 20 ? PE is one tiny component of an informed investment decision .
After the closing the lender does not matter . Many brokerages who do n't hold the note will sell the note after the closing anyway . The only real issues you should concern yourself with are the lenders responsiveness to help you close quickly and the terms of your loan . Also be proactive and confirm terms and closing documents BEFORE the actual closing . Tell your lender and attorney you want to see documents BEFORE the closing to avoid surprises and have time to confirm that the terms are what you agreed to . Some brokerage lender have a tendency to change some small terms before closing . Other than your terms and responsiveness . Your lenders do n't differ all that much .
The post 4PM session is also called extended trading , it 's an extension of that day . Ex dividend occurs when the date changes , not when the day session closes .
There 's no catch . Banks need to acquire customers just like any other business . One common way to acquire new customers is by advertising on the radio , TV , print , etc. . Another common way to acquire new customers is by offering incentives like the one you linked to . Basically , PNC is confident that they will make more than $ 100 in profit over the entire lifetime of a customer . This is a very reasonable assumption , considering that : In the second quarter of 2010 , PNC Financial reported <URL> in net income . According to <URL> , they have approximately 5M customers . Therefore , net income per customer was $ 172 for just April through June 2010 .
The effect of making a single purchase , of size and timing described , would not cause market disequilibrium , it would only hurt you ( and your P&amp;L ) . As @littleadv said , you would be unlikely to get your order filled . There would n't be anyone to take the other side of your trade , There would n't be enough shares available at short notice , as a block . You asked about making a " sudden " purchase . Let 's say you placed the order and were willing to accept a series of partial fills e.g. in 5,000 or 10,000 share increments at a time , over a period of hours . This would be a more moderate approach . Even spread out over the span of a day , this remains unwise . You 'll alert the few market participants in that stock that you have a large interest in buying . You 'll probably drive up the price of the stock , due to basic supply and demand for available shares . You 'll create the perception of a " story " or other change in fundamentals about the company , and expectations of share price appreciation in the near future . Even if it is true , you 'll overpay , or possibly not be able to buy it at all , as existing shareholders wo n't want to sell if they think there is a chance for profit-taking . A better approach would be to buy small lots over the course of a week or month . But your transaction fees would increase . Investors make money in pink sheets and penny stocks due to increases in share price of 100 % ( on the low end ) , with a relatively small number of shares . It is n't feasible to earn speculator profits by purchasing huge blocks ( relative to number of shares outstanding ) of stock priced < $ 1.00 USD and profit from merely 25 % price increases on large volume .
end question
start question
Pay online : credit card or debit card ?
Credit card , without a doubt . The reason is dispute resolution . If you dispute a charge on debit card - the money has left your account already , and if the dispute was accepted - you 'll get it back . If . Eventually . In the mean time your overdraft will be missing $ $ $ . For credit cards , you can catch a fraud action before the money actually leaves your pocket and dispute it then . In this case the charge is set aside , and you will only be required to actually pay if the dispute is rejected . I.e. : The money stays in your pocket , until the business proves that the charge is legit . In both cases , if the dispute is justified ( i.e. : there was indeed a fraud ) neither you nor the bank will lose money at the bottom line , it 's just who 's got the money during the dispute resolution process ( which may be lengthy ) that matters .
If they told you that the move wo n't affect your credit score , it wo n't . As you noted , neither MasterCard or Visa are the ones that hold your account ; the bank is . They are telling you that it is a new account , but that is just bookkeeping . As far as you are concerned , it is the same account , as all your history is moving from the old account to the new . If the bank is reporting it to the credit agencies in the same way , it wo n't affect your score . The fact that the account number is changing does n't matter ; credit card account numbers change all the time .
The simplest answer to why you ca n't see it in your online statement is a design/business decision that was made , most probably originally to make online statements differ as little as possible from old fashioned monthly printed statements ; the old printed statements never showed holds either . Some banks and card services actually do show these transactions online , but in my experience these are the rare exceptions - though with business/commercial accounts I saw this more , but it was still rare . This is also partly due to banks fearing lots of annoying phone calls from customers and problems with merchants , as people react to " hey , renting that car did n't cost $ 500 ! " and do n't realize that the hold is often higher than the transaction amount and will be justified in a few days ( or weeks ... ) , etc - so please do n't dispute the charges just yet . Behind the scenes , I 've had bankers explain it to me thusly ( the practice has bitten me before and it bothered me a lot , so I 've talked to quite a few bankers about this ) : There are two kinds of holds : " soft holds " and " hard holds " . In a soft hold , a merchant basically asks the bank , " Hey , is there at least $ 75 in this account ? " The bank responds , and then has it 's own individually set policy per account type as to how to treat that hold . Sometimes they reserve no money whatsoever - you are free to spend that money right out and rack up NSF fees to your heart 's content . Yet some policies are to treat this identically to a hard hold and keep the money locked down until released . The hard hold is treated very much like an actual expenditure transaction , in that the money is locked and shown as no longer available to you . This varies by bank - some banks use an " Account Balance " and an " Available Balance " , and some have done away with these dual terms and leave it up to you to determine what your balance is and what 's " available " ( or you have to call them ) . The key difference in the hard hold and a real expenditure is , technically , the money is still in your bank account ; your bank has merely " reserved " it , earmarking it for a specific purchase ( and gently promising the merchant they can have their money later ) , but the biggest difference is there is a time-limit . If a merchant does not process a completion to the transaction to claim the money , your bank will lift the hold after a period of time ( I 've seen 7-30 days as typical in the US , again varying by institution ) returning your money to your balance that is available for purchasing and withdrawal . In every case , any vaguely decent banking institution allows you to call them , speak to some bank employee , and they can look up your account and inform you about the different sort of holds that are on your account that are not pending/completed purchase transactions . From a strictly cynical ( perhaps rightly jaded ) point of view , yes this is also used as a method to extort absurdly high fees especially from customers who keep a low balance in their account . I have had more than one bank charge NSF fees based on available balances that were due to holds made by gas pumps , for instance , even though my actual " money in my account " never went below $ 0 ( the holds were for amounts larger than the actual transaction ) . And yes , the banks usually would waive those fees if you bothered to get someone on the phone or in person and made yourself a nuisance to the right person for long enough , but they made you work for it . But I digress ... The reality is that there are lots of back and forth and middle-men in transactions like this , and most banks try to hide as much of this from you the client as possible , partly because its a huge confusing hassle and its part of why you are paying a bank to handle this nonsense for you to start with . And , as with all institutions , rules and policies become easily adjusted to maximize revenues , and if you do n't keep sizable liquid minimum balances ( 100 % of the time , all year long ) they target you for fees . To avoid this without having fat wads of extra cash in those accounts , is use an entirely disconnected credit card for reservations ONLY - especially when you are traveling and will be making rentals and booking hotels . Just tell them you wish to pay with a different card when you are done , and most merchants can do this without hassle . Since it 's a credit card with monthly billing you can often end up with no balance , no waiting around for a month for payments to clear , and no bank fees ! It is n't 100 % , but now I never - if I can possibly avoid it - use my debit/bank card to " reserve " or " rent " anything , ever .
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
In my experience , it is better to pay on the vendor 's ( in this case , credit card 's ) website , rather than your checking account 's bill pay service . I 've personally had trouble with my bank 's bill pay service . When you pay with bill pay , there is usually a delay of at least a few days before the payment arrives at the destination . Sometimes the payment gets there late . Sometimes the recipient does n't know how to credit the payment when they get it . This has caused me to miss due dates and created a mess . When you pay with the credit card 's own website , the effective date of payment is immediate . If you schedule a future date , you can pick a precise date for the payment to be credited . ( Although , I always pay my bills a few days early to be safe . ) Of course , your bank 's bill pay service might be better than mine . But I 've had lots of trouble with mine , and I do n't use it anymore .
I think that its not because you were rejected several months before , but because your credit report started showing some activity and you fit the filtering criteria ( which are pretty low in some cases ) for those " preapproved " offers .
Anyone can apply for a credit card , however not everyone is granted a credit card . For the Bank to issue you a credit card , they need an assurance that you will be able to repay . Each bank has different norms apart from credit score , they also see your source of income [ generally its easy if you are salaried / difficult if you are not ] . Some bank also grant credit card if you hold a good amount as Fixed Deposits or PPF . So in short there are multiple eligibility criteria 's , for example : - Salary is above X amount to get a credit limit of Y . Additionally there may be a number of years of service . - Certain amount of Fixed Deposits or PPF 's or other investments . - Tax Returns show a good amount of income and tax paid . The easiest way to get a basic card is to apply to the Bank where you have a savings account .
It 's a fake ! Do n't fall for it or you 'll regret it ! This is another classic example of what is called a phishing attack . <URL> . The email in question was not from MasterCard , your bank , or your credit card company . A phishing attack is a form of social engineering or pretexting where you are led to believe through an official-looking email that the notice is from a legitimate source when , in fact , it is not . Cyber-criminals and online organized crime try to use phishing attacks to trick you into revealing your credit card number , your bank account information , your Social Security Number ( SSN , United States ) or Social Insurance Number ( SIN , Canada ) or any other kind of personal information . Your bank , credit card company , or other financial account provider should never ask you in an email to visit their site through a link provided in the email . Never trust a hyperlink provided in an email -- odds are good it leads to a fake site created by criminals ! When in doubt about such a message , do n't click anything . Contact your financial service provider by phone to inquire , using the phone number on your card or on a previous bill . Do n't call any phone numbers in the message .
This is just my opinion , but paying an annual fee for a credit card these days is simply not worth it . Also , if you are just going for the airline miles , I 'd suggest a cash back card is a better choice . Cash is much more fungible between airlines , and they ca n't jack with your rewards by limiting the number of award seats or the number of miles/surcharges for using frequent flier miles on tickets .
There are 3 entities in a credit card transaction ; The Merchant Bank/Acquiring bank that provides the POS to the Merchant where you buy / swipe your card . This bank is the one that acquires the funds at the end of transaction . The Card Network [ Visa/Master/etc ] The Issuing Bank [ the Bank that issues you a credit card ] Typically when you swipe for 100 , the merchant only gets around 97.5 . The 2.5 is divided amongst the 3 entities , roughly around 0.5 for the Merchant Bank , around 0.5 for the Card Network and a lions share to Issuing Bank of around 1.5 The reason Issuing Bank gets large share is because they take the risk and provide the credit to customer . Typically the Issuing Bank would pay the Merchant bank via the Card Network the money in couple of days . So the Merchant Bank is not out of funds . The Issuing Bank on the other hand would have given you a credit of say 10 to 50 days depending on when you made the transaction and when the payment is due . On an average 30 days of credit . So roughly the Acquiring Bank is lending money at the rate of 18 % . It is from this money the Issuing Bank would give out rewards , which is typically less than 1 % . Also in cases where say Merchant Bank and the Issuing Bank are same , Bank would make money on both the legs of transaction and hence launch co-branded cards with better rewards . The above numbers are illustrative and actual practices vary from Bank to Bank to card Network to Country Related question at <URL>
Each merchant is assigned a category , and all the purchases through that merchant fall into that category . If a merchant qualifies for more than one category ( e.g. : Costco &amp; Costco Gas ) , then for different purchases the merchant will use different merchant ID 's . These codes are called " <URL> " , and the merchant fees are also decided based on the category assigned to the merchant ( the same merchant with several codes will pay higher fees on some codes than the others ) . You can see the purchase categories on your credit card purchases regardless of whether you get rewards or not , this information is usually available through your statement or on-line .
Many people who do transfer a balance from one credit card to another have no clue as to what is going on and how credit cards work . If you transfer a balance from one credit card to another , you are charged a fee of anywhere from 3 % upwards ( subject to a minimum of $ 10 or so ) up front . If Credit Card A has balance $ 1000 and you transfer it to Credit Card B which is offering no interest for a year on the transferred balance , you owe Credit Card B $ 1050 ( say ) . In most cases , that $ 50 has to be paid off as part of the following month 's bill . If you are carrying a revolving balance on Credit Card B , that $ 50 will typically be charged interest from the day of the transfer . Your monthly bill will not ( necessarily ) include that $ 1000 you owe for one year or six months or whatever the transfer agreement you accepted says . If you tend to pay anything less ( even a penny ) than full payment of each month 's bill on Credit Card B , your partial payment will be applied to that $ 1000 first , and anything left over will be applied to the monthly balance . In short , if you do n't pay in full each month , that $ 1000 will not be " yours " for a year ; you may end up paying $ 50 interest for borrowing $ 1000 for just one or two months , and the rest of your balance is the gift that keeps on giving as the credit card company likes to say . UPDATE : This has changed slightly in the United States . Any amount paid over the minimum amount due is charged to the higher-interest balances . So in this case , if you had $ 1000 at a 0 % promotional rate and a regular balance of $ 500 , and the minimum payment was $ 100 , and you paid $ 150 , $ 100 would pay down the promotional balance , and the extra $ 50 would pay down the regular balance . About the only way to make the deal work in your favor is to Transfer money only if you have paid the full amount due on the last two statements before the date of the transfer and are not carrying a revolving balance . Check your monthly statements to make sure they show Finance Charge of 0.00 . Many people have never seen such a sight and are unaware that this can be observed in nature . Make sure that you pay each month 's bill in full ( not the minimum monthly payment due ) each month for a whole year after that . Make sure that the bill containing that $ 1000 ( coming out a year after the transfer date ) is also paid in full . Very many credit-card users do not have the financial discipline to go through with this program . That is why credit card companies love to push transfer balances on consumers : the whole thing is a cash cow for them where they in effect get to charge usurious rates of interest without running afoul of the law . $ 50 interest for a one-year loan of $ 1000 is pretty high at current rates ; $ 50 interest for a two or three month loan where the customer does not even notice the screwing he is getting is called laughing all the way to the bank . See also the answers to <URL>
From my experience , almost always it is cheaper to pay in the local currency , including the bank fees and the bank conversion rates . If you let the store convert to your home currency for you it will be the least favorable rate you could have gotten anywhere . There might be some exceptions , but I have n't seen these .
The missing piece : what is the savings account for ? Is it earmarked for something in particular , or is it just money you have n't spent ? Paying off the 3k balance immediately will save you money . Go look at your credit statement and look and see how much it 's costing you in interest every month you continue to not pay it off . Certainly it 's costing more in interest than the bank is paying in interest . The exception is 0 % interest . If somehow you manage to not be paying interest , and that deal is still in place , then MAYBE it 's better to hold onto the cash for a rainy day . Even then , paying off the stupid bill and not having to worry about it does have benefits .
Yes , copays and costs associated with vaccinations are qualified medical expenses under HSA guidelines . Receiving a vaccine is a service , not a prescription drug . You do n't take the vaccine home with you . You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for prescribed medicines and drugs . A prescribed drug is one that requires a prescription by a doctor for its use by an individual . <URL> Additionally , the ACA mandated that certain preventive care services be made available at zero cost . Here 's a list of the ACA Mandated preventive care benefits related to immunization : Immunization vaccines Diphtheria Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Herpes Zoster Human Papillomavirus ( HPV ) Influenza ( flu shot ) Measles Meningococcal Mumps Pertussis Pneumococcal Rubella Tetanus Varicella ( Chickenpox ) Carriers are free to add to this list , but these are the minimums required . <URL> When you make your appointment , be clear that you 're making a preventive care appointment for XYZ .
The credit card may have advantages in at least two cases : In some instances ( at least in the US ) , a merchant will put a " hold " on a credit card without charging it . This happens a lot at hotels , for example , which use the hold as collateral against damages and incidental charges . On a credit card this temporarily reduces your credit limit but never appears on your bill . I 've never tried to do it on a debit card , but my understanding is that they either reject the debit card for this purpose or they actually make the withdrawal and then issue a refund later . You 'll actually need to account for this in your cash flow on the debit card but not on the credit card . If you get a fraudulent charge on your credit card , it impacts that account until you detect it and go through the fraud resolution process . On a debit card , the fraudulent charge may ripple through the rest of your life . The rent payment that you made by electronic transfer or ( in the US ) by check , for example , is now rejected because your bank account is short by the amount of the fraud even if you did n't use the debit card to pay it . Eventually this will probably get sorted out , but it has potential to create a bigger mess than is necessary . Personally , I never use my debit card . I consider it too risky with no apparent benefit .
This will probably require some explanation from you on the source of the money and the reasons for the transaction . Cash transactions over $ 10k will be reported by the bank ( in this case ) on a <URL> . Keep in mind , mere breaking the transaction into multiple smaller ones in order to avoid the CTR is on its own a criminal offense . Just deposit what you want to deposit , and report what 's needed to be reported . Note that if you 're a US tax resident - these foreign bank accounts must have been reported already to <URL> , if not - you should expect a very nasty audit with the IRS .
I 've been doing this for years , and have n't had a problem ( yet ) . Since I pay of the entire balance every month , this ensures that I never have to pay interest because I forgot to send in a payment . As MoneyCone said , it does require discipline on your part to check your statement each month , prior to the autopay . Remember , that even with autopay , you can override it for particular statements . So if there is a fraudulent charge , you can dispute it with the credit card company , and manually pay the card whatever amount you want . The one thing I do worry about is the credit card making an error and withdrawing more than they should . This is why I have the autopay tied to my local credit union account , which I only keep enough to pay the credit card bills and the occasional paper check , limiting the damage . Most of my money are in an ING account , where I use online billpay to take care of the rest of my expenses .
Yes , they did stop the practice in 2007 . See this article from the Seattle Times for reference : <URL>
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
end question
start question
Would a bank take shares in mutual funds as security for a mortgage instead of a down payment ?
The reason I do n't know of any banks who would offer this to you ( even if you held the investment account with their bank ) is that there is no upside to the bank . It is a good idea for you , but what would they have to gain from this arrangement ? The reason banks require a down payment is underwriting quality . If you can afford a significant down payment , they know that there is a significantly lower chance that you will default . However , if you were to provide an investment account as collateral , you would receive all the upside , and any downside would reduce their collateral as a percent of the amount loaned . This sort of idea could potentially work along the lines of a margin call ( ie you have to provide additional capital if your asset value drops ) , but this would have the effective of leveraging the bank 's risk , when their objective is to lower their risk through requiring a down payment . I do n't see a reason why the bank would take on the risk that you would need to provide additional capital down the road with no upside for them . Additionally , many banks have backed away from the kinds of zero-down-payment and negative-amortization-ARM loans that got them ( or the people they sold them to ) in trouble over the last few years in an effort to reduce how much risk they take on . I think that in theory , you 'd have to offer a lot more benefit to the bank , and that in practice it 's probably a non-starter right now .
The bank wo n't let you because : Differences in required account features -- Business accounts have different features ( many of them legal features ) that are required by businesses . For instances : Do you want to be able to deposit cheques that are written out to your business name ? You need a business account for that . Your business could be sold . Then it would n't be your business , so it would n't make sense to put the business account under your personal name . The bank account and the cash it holds is a business asset and should be owned by the business , so when the business is sold the account goes with it . This is especially the case for a corporation that has shareholders , and not a sole proprietorship . For a business , you could also , in theory , assign other people as signing authorities on the business account ( e.g. your corporate treasurer ) , and the individuals performing that role could change over time . Business accounts allow for this kind of use . Market segmentation -- The bank has consciously undertaken to segment their product offerings in order to maximize their profit . Market segmentation helps the bottom line . Even if there were zero legal reasons to have separate personal vs. business accounts , banks would still make it their policy to sell different account types according to use because they can make more money that way . Consider an example in another industry : The plain-old telephone company also practices segmentation w.r.t. personal/business . Do you want a telephone line for a business and listed as such in the phone book ? You need a business line . Do you want a phone line hooked up at a non-residential address ? You need a business line . Here it 's clear it is less of a legal issue than with the bank account , and it does n't matter that the technical features of the phone line may be identical for the basic product offerings within each segment . The phone company has chosen to segment and price their product offerings this way . TL ; DR Q. Why do companies choose to charge some kinds of customers more than others for essentially the same underlying service ? A. Because they can .
Yes , you may do this at any time before signing - but to make a change like this after the official loan documents have been drawn up will cost you extra fees . The typical redraw fee is around $ 200 in CA . Does it make sense to do so ? No , it does not . If you have an extra 1 % , it would probably be better to use that money to purchase a lower interest rate . Here 's an example : Let 's say you 're buying a $ 200,000 house and your offered interest rate is 4.75 % ( just an example ) . With 10 % down you 'd have a loan amount of $ 180,000 and a p &amp; i payment of $ 938.97 per month . With 11 % down you 'd have a loan amount of $ 178,000 and a p &amp; i payment of $ 928.53 per month . Now let 's pretend you buy your interest rate down to 4.375 % . With 10 % down you 'd still have a loan amount of $ 180,000 but your p &amp; i payment would be $ 898.71 per month . Even though the last option gives you the best payment , if I were in your shoes I 'd stick with the 10 % down and save that extra cash in the bank for a rainy day . Buying a home comes with a lot of new expenses and many are unexpected . Good luck !
First of all , the # 1 reason NOT to buy shares in a US-domiciled ETF is that you lose too much money on converting your Canadian dollars into US dollars in order to buy it , and again converting back when you sell . So unless you have a source of USD income , or are comfortable using Norbert 's Gambit , you should probably instead buy a Canadian ETF that holds US stocks , such as VUN or XUU . Those two are even broader than the S&amp;P 500 index , but that 's not a bad thing . If you can cheaply obtain USD , then you 'd be better off with VTI over SPY , because it 's MER is 4 basis points lower and has broader coverage of the US market . Now to answer your question , there are a few differences in the ways foreign equity is taxed compared to Canadian equities . The biggest difference is that dividends from Canadian companies gets favorable tax treatment , so you 'll pay less to the CRA than for dividends on US companies . But if you 're holding the ETF inside a TFSA , RRSP , or RESP then it is sheltered from all Canadian tax , regardless of where the ETF is domiciled or what country 's stocks are being held in it . A smaller difference with foreign equity is that foreign governments will apply a tax on dividend yields , called withholding tax , which varies from country to country . In the US the rate is 15 % ( for foreign investors who fill out a W-8BEN form ) . This tax is not charged when you hold a US-domiciled ETF in an RRSP . And if you are going to hold the stocks in a taxable account ( which you should only do if you 've already maxed out your TFSA and RRSP ) , then you can claim a foreign tax credit on your tax return that compensates you for the US withholding tax . <URL> by PWL Capital does a good job of explaining it and lists popular ETFs at the bottom showing the effect of the tax . I 'd also like to address the question asked in the topic , which is whether or not it 's a good idea to buy US equities . The answer is that it 's a good idea to diversify your investment portfolio across many countries . So yes , buy US equity ETFs ( either Canadian or US domiciled , depending on what currency you can get ) and also buy ETFs that hold Canadian equity , and some that hold international equity . And do n't just buy equities unless you 're willing to take big risks with your money . Most people will buy bond ETFs as well to protect themselves in case of market crashes . If this concept of diversification is new to you , maybe you should consider reading a little more on the topic of index investing . <URL> is great resource for learning , and has recommendations for ETFs and some model portofilos .
After the closing the lender does not matter . Many brokerages who do n't hold the note will sell the note after the closing anyway . The only real issues you should concern yourself with are the lenders responsiveness to help you close quickly and the terms of your loan . Also be proactive and confirm terms and closing documents BEFORE the actual closing . Tell your lender and attorney you want to see documents BEFORE the closing to avoid surprises and have time to confirm that the terms are what you agreed to . Some brokerage lender have a tendency to change some small terms before closing . Other than your terms and responsiveness . Your lenders do n't differ all that much .
If she selects 2012 and contributes $ 500 , she will have contributed the maximum allowable amount for 2012 , and has the option of contributing the maximum amount for 2013 as well ( if she chooses to do so ) . If she does not max out her contribution for 2012 by April 15 , 2013 , that opportunity is lost , though she continues to have the option of contributing the maximum amount for 2013 . Whether contributing the maximum allowable amount to a Roth IRA is a good thing or bad thing is something about which unreasonable people might differ . Edit : @JBKing 's answer makes a very good point that I will elaborate on and incorporate into this answer . Eligibility to make a contribution for 2012 is presumably a given at this point ( there is at least $ 5000 in earned income and AGI is not too large ( see Pub 950 for details ) ) , but eligibility to make a contribution for 2013 is as yet undetermined . If the 2013 AGI turns out to be more than the limit so that the OP 's sister can not contribute to a Roth IRA for 2013 , that contribution for 2013 made today will have to be withdrawn or re-characterized as a non-deductible contribution to a Traditional IRA for 2013 . To the best of my knowledge , it will not be possible to re-characterize it as a Roth IRA contribution for 2012 at that point in time . So the opportunity to add $ 500 to the Roth IRA will be irretrievably lost . As JoeTaxpayer says , why not keep options open by making a full contribution for 2012 while the opportunity is there ? In this sense , I think there is a downside to choosing 2013 instead of 2012 for that $ 500 contribution .
Major brokerages may offer an account type for international trading . In the US , E * Trade offers a " Global Trading " account that can be used to hold foreign stocks . You may need to shop around to find a similar offering in Portugal .
The typical down-payment was expected to be 20 % . The idea being that if one could not save 1/5 of the cost of a house , they were not responsible enough to ensure repayment of the loan . It is hard to say whether this is truly a relevant measure . However , in the absence of other data points , it is pretty decent . It typically requires a fair amount of time to amass that much money and it does demonstrate some restraint . ( e.g. it is easily the cost of a decent new car or some other shiny " toy . " ) Income is not necessarily a good measure , on its own . I am certainly more responsible with my spending when I have less money to spend . ( Lately , I have been feeling like my father , scrutinizing every single purchase down to the penny . )
Hi Alex. I 've been alerted you 're seeking a better answer to this question . ;-) Please accept my apologies for not coming back to this question sooner -- it got buried . : - / No , in general you can not make an early withdrawal penalty-free from a 403 ( b ) account to use towards the purchase of a home . Withdrawals before age 591/2 are generally subject to the 10 % early withdrawal penalty , on top of ordinary income tax . Some 403 ( b ) plans may allow for a loan , but the availability and conditions vary by plan . If you 'd consider a loan , you should check with your plan administrator or your plan 's Summary Plan Description -- often available at one 's company intranet or HR web site . ( I do contract work for an HR consulting firm that assists others in building such sites , and SPDs are usually something made available for download in a " Retirement " or " Wealth " section of such web sites . ) Note that a loan from a 403 ( b ) would need to be paid back into the plan over some period of time , e.g. 5 years , though I have come across examples of <URL> <URL> that do permit a longer pay back period of 10 , 15 , even 30 years if the loan is used for a home purchase . But consider this article : <URL> Finally , to your last point : Yes , if you have an IRA , there are rules permitting withdrawal of up to $ 10,000 penalty-free for use towards the purchase of a first home . See page 53 in <URL> . There 's also a good article at <URL> . Such a withdrawal from a traditional IRA remains subject to ordinary income tax . If have a Roth IRA , you can withdraw free of income tax but you need to pay attention to the <URL> . Additional Resources : <URL>
It 's worthwhile to try and find a better minimum down-payment . When I bought my home , I got an FHA loan , which drastically reduced the minimum down-payment required ( I think the minimum is 3 % under FHA ) . Be aware that any down-payment percentage under 20 % means that you 'll have to pay for private mortgage insurance ( PMI ) as part of your monthly mortgage . Here 's <URL> of it . Part of the challenge you 're experiencing may be that banks are only now exercising the due diligence with borrowers for mortgages that they should have been all along . I hope you 're successful in finding the right payment . Getting a mortgage to reduce your spending on housing relative to rent is a wise move . In addition to fixing your monthly costs at a consistent level ( unlike rent , which can rise for reasons you do n't control ) , the mortgage interest deduction makes for a rather helpful tax benefit .
I disagree with the IRA suggestion . Why IRA ? You 're a student , so probably wo n't get much tax benefits , so why locking the money for 40 years ? You can do the same investments through any broker account as in IRA , but be able to cash out in need . 5 years is long enough term to put in a mutual fund or ETF and expect reasonable ( > 1.25 % ) gains . You can use the online " analyst " tools that brokers like ETrade or Sharebuilder provide to decide on how to spread your portfolio , 15K is enough for diversifying over several areas . If you want to keep it as cash - check the on-line savings accounts ( like Capitol One , for example , or Ally , ING Direct that will merge with Capitol One and others ) for better rates , brick and mortar banks can not possible compete with what you can get online .
I do n't know of a situation where rejecting a raise would make sense . Often , one can be in a phaseout of some benefit , so that even though you 're in a certain tax bracket , the impact of the next $ 100 is greater than the bracket rate alone . Taxation of social security benefits is one such anomaly . It can be high , but never over 100 % . Update - The Affordable Care Act contains such an anomaly - go to the <URL> , and see the benefit a family of three might receive . A credit for up to $ 4631 toward their health care insurance cost . But , increase the income to above $ 78120 Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) and the benefit drops to zero . The fact that the next dollar of income will cost you $ 4631 in the lost credit is an example of a step-function in the tax code . I 'd still not turn down the raise , but I 'd ask that it be deposited to my 401 ( k ) . And when reconciling my taxes each April , I 'd use an IRA in case I still went over a bit . Consider , it 's April , and your MAGI is $ 80,120 . Even if you do n't have to cash to deposit to the IRA , you borrow it , from a 24 % credit card if need be . Because the $ 2000 IRA will trigger not just $ 300 less Federal tax , but a $ 4631 health care credit . Note - the above example will apply to a limited , specific group who are funding their own health care expense and paying above a certain percent of income . It 's not a criticism of ACA , just a mathematical observation appropriate to this question . For those in this situation , a close look at their projected MAGI is in order .
<URL> suggests that two Fidelity funds hold preferred shares of Snapchat Inc. . Preferred shares hold more in common with bonds than with ordinary stock as they pay a fixed dividend , have lower liquidity , and do n't have voting rights . Because of this lower liquidity they are not usually offered for sale on the market . Whether these funds are allowed to hold such illiquid assets is more a question for their strategy document than the law ; it is completely legal for a company to hold a non-marketable interest in another , even if the company is privately held as Snapchat is . The strategy documents governing what the fund is permitted to hold , however , may restrict ownership either banning non-market holdings or restricting the percentage of assets held in illiquid instruments . Since IPO is very costly , funds like these who look to invest in new companies who have not been through IPO yet are a very good way of taking a diversified position in start-ups . Since they look to invest directly rather than through the market they are an attractive , low cost way for start-ups to generate funds to grow . The fund deals directly with the owners of the company to buy its shares . The markdown of the stock value reflects the accounting principle of marking to market ( MTM ) financial assets that do not have a trade price so as to reflect their fair value . This markdown implies that Fidelity believe that the total NPV of the company 's net assets is lower than they had previously calculated . This probably reflects a lack of revenue streams coming into the business in the case of Snapchat . edit : by the way , since there is no market for start-up " stocks " pre-IPO my heart sinks a little every time I read the title of this question . I 'm going to be sad all day now :( .
One option is <URL> , sometimes just called I Bonds . The basic mechanism is that there is a fixed rate set when you buy the bond , and an adjustable rate that changes every six months to reflect CPI . They stop paying you interest after 30 years , but you can redeem them at any time after one year . The major advantages : There is very little risk . The inflation adjustment eliminates inflation risk . You can trade them only with the US Treasury , so there is no risk of capital gains or losses . They are Treasury bonds , so there is as little creditor risk as can exist . They are taxed advantaged . You can elect to postpone taxes until you redeem them , and taxes are completely eliminated if you use the proceeds for favored activities . They are almost perfectly liquid . You can redeem them at any time after one year . The major disadvantages : The current rates are only mildly better than other rates . The current fixed rate is 0.00 % . The current adjustable rate is 1.10 % for six months . That gives a current annual rate of 2.20 % . That is better than you can get elsewhere , but it 's still not great . You can not redeem them for the first year . From one to five years after purchase , there is a penalty of the most recent 3 months ' interest . So if you redeem them within five years , your effective rate is less than the advertised rate ( but at least it 's predictable ) . You are limited to $ 5000 per US Taxpayer per calendar year . So it wo n't cover your entire downpayment , but it might be a reasonable supplement . Treasury is in the process of eliminating paper bonds , so you can now only buy I Bonds from the Treasury Direct website ( linked above ) . I do n't own I Bonds , and have never used Treasury Direct , but everything I 've heard says that it 's very difficult to use .
The mutual fund will price at day 's end , while the ETF trades during the day , like a stock . If you decide at 10am , that some event will occur during the day that will send the market up , the ETF is preferable . Aside from that , the expenses are identical , a low .14 % . No real difference especially in a Roth .
I think the IRS doc you want is <URL> I believe the answers are : funds tracking different indexes : not substantially identical ; the indexes could behave differently funds tracking same index : substantially identical ( though apparently it is n't 100 % for sure according to <URL> , I would n't want to argue it in court ) option on stock you sold : according to <URL> their bullet point 3 under Wash Sales , a contract to buy a substantially identical stock is automatically a wash sale ( even if the contract itself is not substantially identical to the stock ) . presumably applies to a short put as well for example . switch from group of stocks to similar ETF : probably not substantially identical unless your holdings matched the ETF 's index exactly ( same principle as 1 and 2 )
It is legal and is a common practice . Hotels take your credit/debit card information in case there are additional charges ( incidentals ) billed to you during your stay , or to ensure you pay if you did n't pre-pay . Every hotel does it . If they just swiped it - the information is in the computer , but they still keep it . You might see a pending charge from the hotel on your account . It is an " authorization " , not a real charge . You should make sure they cancel it when you leave as to not hold funds on your account tied up unnecessarily . As to your concerns - when you leave , request to take that note from the reception after you 've paid your bill . Debit card transactions without a swiped card and typed-in PIN are considered credit card transactions ( except that they 're charged to your account immediately ) and enjoy the same fraud protections . So unless you 've given them your PIN as well ( which you should never do ) , you 're OK .
The owner of a long futures contract does not receive dividends , hence this is a disadvantage compared to owning the underlying stock . If the dividend is increased , and the future price would not change , there is an arbitrage possibility . For the sake of simplicity , assume that the stock suddenly starts paying a dividend , and that the risk free rate is zero ( so interest does not play a role ) . One can expect that the future price is ( rougly ) equal to the stock price before the dividend announcment . If the future price would not change , an investor could buy the stock , and short a futures contract on the stock . At expiration he has to deliver the stock for the price set in the contract , which is under the assumptions here equal to the price he bought the stock for . But because he owned the stock , he receives the announced dividend . Hence he can make a risk-free profit consisting of the divivends . If interest do play a role , the argument is similar .
1 is pretty easy . Interest for a month can be calculated by taking your whole interest rate dividing it by 12 and applying it to your balance . Say your rate is 3.6 % . You divide that by 12 to get .3 % interest paid per month . Then take that rate ( .003 ) times your balance ( lets say 10000 ) So your monthly interest is 30 dollars . If you have a 35 dollar monthly payment 30 is going to pay interest 5 is being applied to principle . for 2 you can use <URL> or your can just go to <URL> which makes it easy for you to compare what adding a few extra dollars to your payment will do to your pay off date .
Stock price is an indicator about the health of the company . Increased profits ( for example ) will drive the stock price up ; excessive debt ( for example ) will drive it down . The stock price has a profound effect on the company overall : for example , a declining share price will make it hard to secure credit , attract further investors , build partnerships , etc. . Also , employees are often holding options or in a stock purchase plan , so a declining share price can severely dampen morale . In an extreme case , if share prices plummet too far , the company can be pressured to reverse-split the shares , and ( eventually ) take the company private . This recently happened to Playboy .
end question
start question
Why do some online stores not ask for the 3-digit code on the back of my credit card ?
As a general premise : In most of the online transactions in case of dispute the benefit of doubt is given to the customer . IE if the customer refuses to pay and claims that its not his transaction , the card company reverses the charges and does not pay the merchant ( or recovers if its already paid ) . There are many types of online vendors who use a variety of methods to ensure that they are not at loss . Some of these are : Ensuring entry of 3-4 digit CVV indicating that if someone used the card , he was in possession of it . However anyone at a POS while swiping the card can make a note of this and misuse the card . Additional address/ZIP code validation . This ensure slightly better protection that for a misuse , the card number , the CVV , the address need to be known . In spite of this online merchants Factoring in the probable loss due to fraud and marking up the price of the product to that extent . Certain merchants like say Netflix is not bothered about any validation as their service involves delivering a movie to the doorstep everyday and they would know the customer much better and can easily track down errant subscribers . Plus the cost of fees is for a month of service recovered in advance . This may hold good for one time occassioanal delivery by say Amazon as the cost of tracking and getting back the goods is high . Even if the subscriber makes away with a DVD on the first go , the loss to Netflix is just the cost of DVD copy though the gain to thief may be the market price of such DVD . Similar is the case with say Norton or other virus service providers , they would simply deactivate the product code ( if paid by card and later refused ) when you go online and the purchase would be of no use . The online industry is also plagued with cases where the transactions are actually made by card owners , who after enjoying the services dispute the claim with the card providers . Certain countries like India have now mandated that all online card transactions be validated by additional password apart from card number and CVV . The password needs to be generated by contacting the merchant bank before online transactions are allowed . Of course there is still a debate if the merchant is outside India , why should he comply with the additional norm . If an card issued outside India is used in India , they may not have additional password issued by their card providers .
You want to charge so that : now with a little algebra . Rounded up to $ 153.69
Let me start by giving you a snippet of a report that will floor you . Beat the market ? Investors lag the market by so much that many call the industry a scam . <URL> This is the 2015 year end data from a report titled Quantitive Analysis of Investor Behavior by a firm , Dalbar . It boggles the mind that the disparity could be this bad . A mix of stocks and bonds over 30 years should average 8.5 % or so . Take out fees , and even 7.5 % would be the result I expect . The average investor return was less than half of this . Jack Bogle , founder of Vanguard , and considered the father of the index fund , was ridiculed . A pamphlet I got from Vanguard decades ago quoted fund managers as saying that " indexing is a path to mediocrity . " Fortunately , I was a numbers guy , read all I could that Jack wrote and got most of that 10.35 % , less .05 , down to .02 % over the years . To answer the question : psychology . People are easily scammed as they want to believe they can beat the market . Or that they 'll somehow find a fund that does it for them . I 'm tempted to say ignorance or some other hint at lack of intelligence , but that would be unfair to the professionals , all of which were scammed by Madoff . Individual funds may not be scams , but investors are partly to blame , buy high , sell low , and you get the results above , I dare say , an investor claiming to use index funds might not fare much better than the 3.66 % 30 year return above , if they follow that path , buying high , selling low . Edit - I am adding this line to be clear - My conclusion , if any , is that the huge disparity can not be attributed to management , a 6.7 % lag from the S&amp;P return to what the average investor sees likely comes from bad trading . To the comments by Dave , we have a manager that consistently beats the market over any 2-3 year period . You have been with him 30 years and are clearly smiling about your relationship and investing decision . Yet , he still has flows in and out . People buy at the top when reading how good he is , and selling right after a 30 % drop even when he actually beat by dropping just 22 % . By getting in and out , he has a set of clients with a 30 year record of 6 % returns , while you have just over 11 % . This paragraph speaks to the behavior of the investor , not managed vs indexed .
Perhaps the right question you should be asking yourself is why you need the higher limit . If you pay your credit card off in full every month , and you need a higher limit just to give you the extra flexibility and cash flow , then that seems sensible . If you want a bigger limit just for the sense of security of being able to draw that much credit , but do n't have plans to use it , that also seems like a legitimate rationale , however many credit cards seem to increase your limit automatically over time ( presuming you 've got good credit , etc. ) so it may not be worth worrying about too much . If you need additional credit limit to help pay for a one-time purchase or are simply wanting to improve your credit rating , you should really explore other debt options such as a line of credit at your bank , or a personal loan . Particularly these days you can get a much better interest rate than you can with credit cards . It 's ironic but true that to get a higher credit rating you need to incur debt . At least , in the US . What I 've been told by loan specialists is that showing responsible credit card use is okay but the best kind of debt for maximizing your credit rating is not credit cards but rather fixed loans like a car , house , college , or etc. that will have a specific monthly payment . Credit agencies apparently like to see evidence that you can use debt responsibly and demonstrate making payments reliably over a period of time . So , like join a local credit union and tell the teller you want to take out a small loan for purposes of building your credit rating , and buy a new computer , stereo , or whatever . Then make regular payments on that over a few years . Not only will this look better than credit card debt , it 'll also be at a lower rate . If you 've accumulated a large amount of credit card debt , and are wanting the higher limit in order to accumulate additional debt , that may be a red flag that your finances are out of balance . It is seductively easy to rack up an enormous debt , but it can be extraordinarily laborious to get it paid off . Two of my family members fell into this trap ( one while in college , the other while between jobs ) . At typical credit card interest rates of 15 % , 20 % , and even 25 % , if carrying debt month to month the debt is going to grow very quickly . If you 're in this case I 'd say count your blessings for having a low credit limit and get some help getting the debt in control . Finally , to actually answer your question , yes it 's been my experience most credit card companies are quite happy to increase your credit rate . Often you can call their customer service phone number and get it raised instantly . And I think they 'd send you a free noose as well . ;-)
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
As a general premise : In most of the online transactions in case of dispute the benefit of doubt is given to the customer . IE if the customer refuses to pay and claims that its not his transaction , the card company reverses the charges and does not pay the merchant ( or recovers if its already paid ) . There are many types of online vendors who use a variety of methods to ensure that they are not at loss . Some of these are : Ensuring entry of 3-4 digit CVV indicating that if someone used the card , he was in possession of it . However anyone at a POS while swiping the card can make a note of this and misuse the card . Additional address/ZIP code validation . This ensure slightly better protection that for a misuse , the card number , the CVV , the address need to be known . In spite of this online merchants Factoring in the probable loss due to fraud and marking up the price of the product to that extent . Certain merchants like say Netflix is not bothered about any validation as their service involves delivering a movie to the doorstep everyday and they would know the customer much better and can easily track down errant subscribers . Plus the cost of fees is for a month of service recovered in advance . This may hold good for one time occassioanal delivery by say Amazon as the cost of tracking and getting back the goods is high . Even if the subscriber makes away with a DVD on the first go , the loss to Netflix is just the cost of DVD copy though the gain to thief may be the market price of such DVD . Similar is the case with say Norton or other virus service providers , they would simply deactivate the product code ( if paid by card and later refused ) when you go online and the purchase would be of no use . The online industry is also plagued with cases where the transactions are actually made by card owners , who after enjoying the services dispute the claim with the card providers . Certain countries like India have now mandated that all online card transactions be validated by additional password apart from card number and CVV . The password needs to be generated by contacting the merchant bank before online transactions are allowed . Of course there is still a debate if the merchant is outside India , why should he comply with the additional norm . If an card issued outside India is used in India , they may not have additional password issued by their card providers .
This very much depends how you use that second line of credit and what your current credit is . If you max it out and then do not pay then it will hurt your credit . If you max it out and pay the minimum but currently have a low credit score it will help . If you already have a 700 + rating then it will hurt it . If you Never use it then it will have little impact on your rating but could cause problems if your available credit exceeds 50 % of your income . If you use it regularly but pay it off every month then it should improve your credit rating . There are of course many more combinations buy you can probably infer the impact based on these cases . Your credit score is based on your likely hood of being profitable to a creditor should they issue you credit . This is based on your history of your ability to manage your credit . Having more credit and managing it well shows that you have a history of being responsible with greater sums of money available . If you use the card responsibly now then you are more likely to continue that trend than someone with a history of irresponsibility . Having a line but not using it is not a good thing . It costs the creditor money for you to have an account . If you never use that account then you are not showing that you can use the account responsibly so if you are just going to throw the card in a safe and never access it then you are better off not getting the card in the first place .
The PAYE tax and NI will be deducted as usual . Send HMRC a <URL> to tell them you 're emigrating , and they will refund the tax .
The U.S. requires money transfer services to be licensed under 31 USC 5330 in addition to any applicable laws at the state level . According to multiple sources online , including the thread referenced by MD-Tech 's answer , OkPay either can not or will not get a license , so they are out . I dug on this a bit more because I thought it was interesting , and OkPay has other issues with U.S. and other regulators related to its interaction with Bitcoins , which themselves are a hot potato for regulation right now and may explain the licensing problem . It seems to also be facing regulatory pressure in other countries , by the way , so it 's not strictly a problem they face in the U.S. Just for whatever reason , the problem is greater here . Some interesting summary points : With mounting pressure on online money exchanges from US regulators , payments processor OKPay has announced that it is suspending processing for all Bitcoin exchanges , including industry leader Mt. Gox . ... Earlier this month , the US Department of Homeland Security seized Mt. Gox 's account with mobile payment processor Dwolla , on allegations that the account was in violation of US Code 18 USC  1960 by operating an " unlicensed money transmitting business . " Just where the Bitcoin market falls under US law is unclear , because the legality of Bitcoin transactions has yet to be tried in court and law enforcement has refused to comment on ongoing investigations , such as the Dwolla case . <URL> In March , the US Treasury said any firms dealing in the virtual currency would be considered " money services businesses " just like any other , which means they must hand over transaction information to the government and work to prevent money laundering . <URL> In the UK , it apparently has also had trouble with banking partners ( quoting a OkPay official regarding changing bank providers ) : The UK bank that we used before did not make a final decision on whether to handle transactions in favour of crypto-currencies or not . Therefore the compliance department of the bank asked us to restrict such transfers . This apparently allowed them to reverse a policy in the UK : OKPAY 's policy shift comes just months after it stipulated that GBP users check a box , verifying that their funds would not be spent on cryptocurrency , a feature that further incited users . <URL> I had n't heard of this company prior to your question , but having done some research , I tend to think that at least the part of this quote about language , attributed to a user , is true : OKPAY are quite paranoid about AML and another problem is that their support people seem to be very bad at English , so their replies are often hard to understand . Their support are also slow [ sic ] . However in my experience they are an honest company . I found at least one case where rumors that the entire company were going to shut down were traced back to a poorly translated message issued by the company . Again , I know only what I read just now about this company , but it looked like there were a few red flags - the problems with the US probably not being the most important . This type of service is probably part of the future , but I 'm not sure that I 'd send money through it now in its current state or organization and regulation .
I think that its not because you were rejected several months before , but because your credit report started showing some activity and you fit the filtering criteria ( which are pretty low in some cases ) for those " preapproved " offers .
The only card I 've seen offer this on credit card purchases is Discover . I think they have a special deal with the stores so that the cash-over amount is not included in the percentage-fee the merchant pays . ( The cash part shows up broken-out from the purchase amount on the statement -- if this was purely something the store did on its own without some collaboration with Discover that would not happen ) . The first few times I 've seen the offer , I assumed it would be treated like a cash-advance ( high APR , immediate interest with no grace period , etc. ) , but it is not . It is treated like a purchase . You have no interest charge if you pay in full during the grace period , and no transaction fee . Now I very rarely go to the ATM . What is in it for Discover ? They have a higher balance to charge you interest on if you ever fail to pay in full before the grace period . And Discover does n't have any debit/pin option that I know of , so no concern of cannibalizing their other business . And happier customers . What is in it for the grocer ? Happier customers , and they need to have the armored car come around less often and spend less time counting drawers internally .
I guess if somebody steals your credit card number from some database or device , such as gas station , they would not be able to use it with some merchants without the code . Merchants are not supposed to store these codes and they are not contained in the magnetic stripe ( unlike the number ) so asking for the code is a way to ensure you have physical possession of the card . Of course , you could still have stolen it ( that 's why they also check ZIP code , etc. ) but at least it protects to some measure against electronic theft . See also : <URL>
It depends on the bank . CitiCards for example ( at least some of them ) , require a full statement balance payment regardless of any refund that may have happened , to avoid interest ; this is even true if your refund plus payment leave a 0 or even negative balance on the card , and you leave it alone like that . Most will include that refund as " part of the payment . " In other words , call the customer service for your card and find out .
If a bank employee catches it then typically they would call you and ask you to come in to sign the check . If they ca n't get a hold of you they would probably mail it back to you . There is a chance that they wo n't catch in which case it would just be deposited into your account like any other check .
It all depends on the merchant . When you charge your card the information goes through but it waits for the merchant to send the info/confirm the charge before it shows up on your online activity . For example : I use Intuit to accept CC payments . When I charge an Amex the info is sent to Amex on the spot which is why your credit limit updates immediately but Amex then waits for a confirmation . Intuit actually handles the entire process which is probably how all CC processing services work . When you use your debit card in a debit transaction you are withdrawing cash from your checking account , which is in part why debit transactions do not have the same security as credit . Another note about debit cards and referring to mhoran_psprep comment - this is because you are using your debit card as a credit transaction , many bank cards offer this and it can come with added benefits . See - <URL>
The HSA money is yours to keep . You ca n't add new money into the account and get a tax deduction for the new money , but you can spend the old money on medical expenses . First log into the website for the HSA and see if you have money left . This can be important because if there is still money left they might be charging you a monthly fee . You should have gotten a letter from the old company or the administrator when you left the High deductible insurance plan . This would have told you your options regarding the spending or transferring of old funds . HSA related numbers would have appeared on your W2 , and you should have a 1099-SA from the administrator . It is likely that there is a copy of the 1099 on the administrators website . The numbers you enter on the tax forms depends on how much you contributed from your paycheck , how much your company contributed , and how much you sent ( if any ) from other sources besides payroll deduction . You will also have to know how much money was withdrawn from the HSA and how much was used for medical purposes . The last month rule is for those people who start in the middle of the year . If you start partway through the year you are allowed to make the maximum contribution if you still have it at the end of the year , and <URL> . The Last Month Rule The Last Month Rule states that if you are covered by an HSA eligible health plan on the first day of the last month of a given year , you are considered an eligible individual for the entire year . In turn , you can then contribute to the HSA for that full year . If you are covered by an HDHP on Dec 1st of a given year , you may contribute the maximum for that year . For example , you could begin coverage and open up my HSA in November of a given year . Come December 1st , you are covered and per the Last Month Rule , considered an eligible employee for that full year . That allows you to contribute up to that year 's contribution limit , even waiting a few months to make a prior year contribution if you like . Back up the truck and load up the HSA ! However , there is a catch . The Testing Period The Testing Period states if you use the Last Month Rule , you must remain an eligible individual ( covered by HDHP ) for the following 12 months . If you fail to remain an eligible individual ( change insurance plans , lose insurance plan , receive other health coverage ) any " extra " contributions you made as a result of the Last Month Rule will be taxed and penalized . If you contribute per the Last Month Rule and end your HDHP insurance within 1 year , you will have to pay tax on any excess contributions you were allowed to make and pay a 10 % penalty . In this case , " excess " contributions are determined by the contribution limit / 12 months , compared to your time eligible .
Some banks waive the normal holds for check clearance for paychecks .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
Wait for the card with your name spelled correctly and activate that one . This will make your life easier in several ways : It 's less of a hassle if someone needs to check your ID against your card . You wo n't have to worry about an incorrect name showing up on your credit history , or about items not showing up on your credit history because the names do n't match . If the names do n't match , you may receive fraud alerts if you attempt to use your card online and enter your correct name . The credit card company will notice that someone with a " different name " is trying to use your card .
It is not delayed and if it did n't show yet - will not show on that agency 's credit report . However , you may find it on another agency 's report . There are three major agencies , and creditors do n't always check all of them ( each inquiry costs them money ) .
end question
start question
Are stores that offer military discounts compensated by the government ?
Company X located outside a military base offer discounts to military as a form of marketing . They want to encourage a group of potential customers to use their store/service . In some cases they are competing with subsidized store on the base . In other cases their only competition is other stores outside the base . The smart ones also understand the pay structure of military pay to make it easier for enlisted to stretch their money for the entire month . The government does n't offer compensation to the business near bases . The businesses see their offer and discount as advertising expenses , and are figured into the prices they have to charge all customers . You will also see these types of discounts offered by some businesses in college towns . They are competing with the services on the campus and with other off-campus businesses . Some also allow the use of campus dollars to make it easier for the student to spend money .
The S&amp;P / ASX 300 is rebalanced every six months , with changes taking effect on the third Friday of March and September . From a PDF under <URL>
After the 2009 collapse , there were calls to regulate levered ETFs and <URL> . The reason why is because especially with the 3x Financials , where the underlying lost nearly 50 % in two months , the 3x lost approximately 90 % , a well-managed decline considering that is a nearly 90 % loss , so it fulfilled its objective to get 3x the geometric return of the underlying . They are not intended to amplify arithmetic returns , so a 50 % loss will not wipe the levered fund out , only incompetence . After those calls for regulation , Direxion called it quits on expanding its offerings which were to include a 10x set of ETFs . The real risk of a levered ETF is that it may not achieve its goal of geometrically amplifying an underlying 's return , thus if one is using a -3 x to hedge underlying , a generally effective strategy at reducing volatility , then a long run hedge will break down because a single day 's return is ignored the next day since these are daily levered funds . There were plans to offer monthly return so that errors could be corrected , but they were also stopped in their tracks by the calls for regulation . Here , there is no doubt that just the mere threats of regulation have hurt the little guy 's , such as myself , ability to hedge .
That info is n't in the credit card transaction data record . Keep and scan your receipts .
Here 's a few . Is this what you 're looking for ? Also this should probably be a community wiki . Broken Stuff : Car , Appliances Retirement Holidays/Christmas Loss of overtime or job loss Home maintenance : Painting , maintenance of roof flashing , maintenance of heating system
Most Banks allow to make an international transfer . As the amounts is very small , there is no paperwork required . Have your dad walk into any Bank and request for a transfer . He should be knowing your Bank 's SWIFT BIC , Name and Address and account number . Edit : Under the liberalised remittance scheme , any individual can transfer upto 1 million USD or eq . A CA certificate is required . Please get in touch with your bank in India for exact steps
Couple years ago i asked Citibank to replace my bank/credit card with ATM Only card without any issues .
Charlie would have to have a family or employee-plus-one HSA-compatible plan to contribute the family limit ( $ 6550 for 2014 ) . Importantly , those covered under his plan can not have non-HSA-compatible coverage . From the <URL> : Other health coverage . You ( and your spouse , if you have family coverage ) generally can not have any other health coverage that is not an HDHP . However , you can still be an eligible individual even if your spouse has non-HDHP coverage provided you are not covered by that plan . Lower down on the same page it talks about <URL> . You definitely want to withdraw the excess or else you get hit with a 6 % tax on it every year . The withdrawal , along with earnings on the excess contributions , needs to be done before you file your taxes .
The <URL> of the <URL> 's 2012 General Income Tax and Benefit Guide explains how to donate money to the federal debt servicing and reduction account . The guide writes : To make a gift to this account , make it payable to the Receiver General , and send it with a note asking that we apply it to this account , to : Place du Portage Phase III , 11 Laurier Street Gatineau , Quebec K1A 0S5 Donations are tax-deductible : they 'll send you a tax receipt .
They can be cheaper . For instance , my Wife bought stuff at the Gymboree Factory Outlet . They tend to give out more Gymboree Bucks ( e.g. Coupons ) . They also seem to run a lot more deals . YMMV . The factory outlet malls also seem to just have more variety for the brands that you like .
What you 're asking for is a short-term , large return investment . When looking for big returns in a short period of time , risk is inevitable . The more risk you are willing to assume , the higher your potential returns . Of course , the flip is is that the higher your risk , the higher the potential to lose all your money ! Since this is an exercise for school ( and not real money and not your life savings ) your best bet is to " go big or go home " . You can safely assume 100 % risk ! Do n't look for value stocks , dividend stocks , or anything that pays a steady return over a long period of time . Instead , look for something risky that has the potential of going up , up , up in the next few months . Are you allowed to trade options in your fake portfolio ? Options can have big risk and big reward potential . Penny stocks are super volatile , too . Do some research , look for a fad . In other words , you will most likely lose it all . But you get a little lucky , you could win this thing outright by making some risky investments . A 5 % chance of winning $ 3000 vs 95 % of going broke may be pretty good odds if everyone else is value investing for just a few months . You will need to get lucky . Go big or go home !
The trick is that any payment you send over the minimum required will be applied to the check balance first , not your main purchases . I guess if you do n't use that card for anything else at all it might work out .
I can name far more non-real estate millionaires than those who are . That statistic is n't only not valid , it 's not even close . Update : The correct quote is " 90 % of all Millionaires become so through owning Real Estate " and it 's attributed to Andrew Carnegie . Given that he was born in 1835 , I can imagine that his statement was true at he time , but not today .
The only card I 've seen offer this on credit card purchases is Discover . I think they have a special deal with the stores so that the cash-over amount is not included in the percentage-fee the merchant pays . ( The cash part shows up broken-out from the purchase amount on the statement -- if this was purely something the store did on its own without some collaboration with Discover that would not happen ) . The first few times I 've seen the offer , I assumed it would be treated like a cash-advance ( high APR , immediate interest with no grace period , etc. ) , but it is not . It is treated like a purchase . You have no interest charge if you pay in full during the grace period , and no transaction fee . Now I very rarely go to the ATM . What is in it for Discover ? They have a higher balance to charge you interest on if you ever fail to pay in full before the grace period . And Discover does n't have any debit/pin option that I know of , so no concern of cannibalizing their other business . And happier customers . What is in it for the grocer ? Happier customers , and they need to have the armored car come around less often and spend less time counting drawers internally .
Long term gov ' t bonds fluctuate in price with a seemingly small interest rate fluctuation because many years of cash inflows are discounted at low rates . This phenomenon is dulled in a high interest rate environment . For example , just the principal repayment is worth ~ 1/3 , , what it will be in 30 years at 4 % while an overnight loan paying an unrealistic 4 % is worth essentially the same as the principal , . This is more profound in low interest rate economies because , taking the countries undergoing the present misfortune , one can see that their overnight interest rates are double US long term rates while their long term rates are nearly 10x as large as US long term rates . If there were much supply at the longer maturities which have been restrained by interest rates only manageable by the highly skilled or highly risky , a 4 % increase on a 30 % bond is only about a 20 % decline in bond price while a 4 % increase on a 4 % bond is a 50 % decrease . The easiest long term bond to manipulate quantitatively is the perpetuity where is the price of the bond , is the interest payment per some arbitrary period usually 1 year , and is the interest rate paid per some arbitrary period usually 1 year . Since they are expressly linked , a price can be implied for a given interest rate and vice versa if the interest payment is known or assumed . At a 4 % interest rate , the price is At 4.04 % , the price is , a 1 % increase in interest rates and a 0.8 % decrease in price . Longer term bonds such as a 30 year or 20 year bond will not see as extreme price movements . The constant maturity 30 year treasury has fluctuated between 5 % and 2.5 % to ~ 3.75 % now from before the Great Recession til now , so prices will have more or less doubled and then reduced because bond prices are inversely proportional to interest rates as generally shown above . At shorter maturities , this phenomenon is negligible because future cash inflows are being discounted by such a low amount . The one month bill rarely moves in price beyond the bid/ask spread during expansion but can be expected to collapse before a recession and rebound during .
As mentioned in the comments : According to the message from the exchange all trades at or below $ 5.86 that were executed in NASDAQ between 09:38:00 and 09:46:00 ET got canceled . If the short does n't fall into those criteria but the long does , though luck the long is invalid , the short is valid . Traders that got the short end of the stick in the end , should contact their brokers and inquire about this situation . Depending on the terms of the broker the short might get canceled as well . If not , then it 's up to the market . The trader can keep or close the short . IMO , what the person in question should have done is hold on to the trade and see what happens at the end of the trading day . He should 've realized something was wrong when the price went from 8 . xx to 0.8 x.
<URL> would be a study from the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and University of Minnesota if you want a source for some data . Abstract This study examines common stock prices around ex-dividend dates . Such price data usually contain a mixture of observations - some with and some without arbitrageurs and/or dividend capturers active . Our theory predicts such mixing will result in a nonlinear relation between percentage price drop and dividend yield - not the commonly assumed linear relation . This prediction and another important prediction of theory are supported empirically . In a variety of tests , marginal price drop is not significantly different from the dividend amount . Thus , over the last several decades , one-for-one marginal price drop have been an excellent ( average ) rule of thumb .
Two different takes on an answer ; the net-loss concept you mentioned and a core-business concept . If a store is actually a net-loss , and anybody is willing to buy it , it may well make sense to sell it . Depending on your capital value invested , and how much it would take you to make it profitable , it may be a sound business decision to sell the asset . The buyer of the asset is of course expecting for some reason to make it not a net loss for them ( perhaps they have other stores in the vicinity and can then share staff or stock somehow ) . The core-business is a fuzzier concept . Investors seem to go in cycles , like can like well-diversified companies that are resilient to a market downturn in one sector , but then they also like so-called pure-play companies , where you are clear on what you are owning . To try an example ( which is likely not the case here ) , lets say that Sunoco in 5 % of its stores had migrated away from a gas-station model to a one-stop-gas-and-repairs model . Therefore they had to have service bays , parts , and trained staff at those locations . These things are expensive , and could be seen as not their area of expertise ( selling gas ) . So as an investor , if I want to own gas stations , I do n't want to own a full service garage , so perhaps I invest in somebody else . Once they sell off their non-core assets , they free up capital to do what they know best . It is at least one possible explanation .
" As-is " means that no matter what the inspector finds the seller will not delay closing , repair , or provide money/discount to repair . If you want to go this route then yes you need a complete inspection by a trained and certified home inspector . No matter what they find , big or small , you will then have the opportunity to walk away . If they find small things , then it is up to you . If they find any big things or open ended things then you will likely walk away . Do n't let the seller , their agent , or your agent try and talk you out of the inspection . Despite the claim as " as-is " many jurisdiction also require the seller to disclose all known material defect as a part of the listing and other related documents . So if they spent $ 5,000 covering up the evidence of the leak that will cost $ 20,000 they have to tell you . If it is discovered soon after you move in , you still may be able to take them to court . But you will need that inspection report to show that you tried to find all the defects . Why does the seller go the " as-is " route ? Some have something to hide . Others just want to speed the transaction along . If the defects are small , and you are able to handle the repairs yourself , then settlement can proceeded quickly . But if you insist on a new roof , then they have to schedule it and it can delay thing for weeks . Many times the seller is offering the house at a discount already and does n't want to reduce the money even further .
If you are afraid of your government defaulting , then you also have reason to fear that your country 's so-called " AAA " corporate bonds might not be a safe investment . When governments default , they often do things like : Confiscate their subjects ' financial assets . This can include directly seizing corporate bonds , and/or taking away the assets that the corporations were relying on to pay their bills . Increase income taxes and other taxes . In extreme cases , this is not much different from confiscation . Inflate the currency . This reduces the value of both government bonds and corporate bonds ( that are paid in that currency ) . Impose price controls . This can prevent corporations from doing business . Impose " bank holidays " , which can prevent you from receiving payments on corporate bonds . " Borrow " and/or confiscate local government cash reserves . Delay payment of government obligations . This can cause corporations to go bankrupt . Refuse to pay government obligations , or insist on a " cramdown " . This can also cause corporations to go bankrupt . In these scenarios , it is not predictable whether government bonds will suffer more or less than any particular corporate bonds . You might want to diversify into precious metals , foreign currencies , and/or foreign securities . For the most security , you might want to choose investment vehicles that your government would have a hard time confiscating . Of course , you will face currency fluctuation risks if you do so .
end question
start question
How much is a typical food budget per person ?
USDA <URL> on a monthly basis that can be used to estimate food costs for a household and provides four " tiers " : thrifty , low-cost , moderate-cost , and liberal . It likely varies by region , as well as by personality . In our family , where both my wife and I are frugal , we usually come in below the " thrifty " level . On the other hand , incomes in this area are literally only 65 % of other places in the country .
Sounds like you 've got a good approach on the cost/benefit calculation and just lack one of the variables . My own findings are confirming that information on specific insurance company defensive driving discounts are n't generally disclosed , and discounts are n't consistent across companies . Some insurance company pages I found do confirm many offer a discount , but not exactly what percentage that discount would be . Further browsing revealed : an <URL> : " they offer a 10 % discount if I take a defensive driving class " a mention from <URL> & sup1 ; that " Some insurance companies give a reduction in rates to course participants " -- meaning , other insurance companies might not ! <URL> : " Courses may also qualify the student for a discount on car insurance . " [ my emphasis ] An <URL> stating " varies [ ... ] but discounts of 5-15 % are common . " So if we told you " between zilch and 15 % " , does that satisfy or would you still be wondering ? ;-) I think you need to seek out information specific to your case . IIWY , I would call my car insurance company and ask : " If I qualified for your defensive driving discount , how much would I be paying for my policy , all else being equal ? What specific or kinds of courses would qualify me ? Online , or in-car only ? " It 's in their interest to inform you on this , since better trained policy-holders are less likely to claim . & sup1 ; Note : I do n't endorse any particular company ; this was just an example from my search results .
Your question is intriguing as statistics are a funny thing . There 's average which is just that , total all income and divide by population . Then there 's median , which is where 50 % are higher , 50 % lower . I 'm ignorant of Australia , forgive me , if there is a large concentration of wealth , the average becomes less and less meaningful as a measure of the general welfare of the population . Simple example , one in 100 people earn $ 1M . That means the other 99 make $ 10K less to get to the same average , right ? So to educate myself I took a glance at <URL> . In fact , your GINI coefficient is more favorable , as is your R/P 10 % . I do n't know if this was tangential to your question , but it was a lesson for me , thanks .
You probably cant live in Manhattan on 1800 per month with such little savings . Try for Brooklyn or Queens with several room mates . Jersey City is likely out of your price range as well . It would be wise to leverage technology to help keep your budget and savings projections under control during this time and moving forward . Whether you use a spreadsheet or a tool like OnTrajectory.com or some other website -- you have to get everything out in front of you so you can make smarter decisions . Once you do that , then you will be able to get the most out of your savings and income . Good luck ! 33 y/o , Lifetime New Yorker
Get another envelope for " items purchased online . " When you make a purchase online , pull out the equivalent amount of money from the proper envelope ( household , gifts , entertainment , etc. ) and put that money into the " items purchased online " envelope . ( The amount grows as you purchase things , which is opposite of the other envelopes , which get spent down as you purchase things . ) Then , the next time you fund your envelopes , withdraw the difference of what you have in your " items purchased online " envelope , and then add that to what 's in the " items purchased online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as you normally do . Example : Let 's say you buy $ 25 in DVDs from Amazon and $ 85 in clothing from Kohls.com . You 'd take $ 25 out of your Entertainment envelope , and $ 85 from your Clothing envelope , and put that $ 110 in your " items purchased online " envelope . ( The rest are cash purchases . ) If you fund your envelopes with $ 500 each period , then you 'd withdraw $ 390 ( $ 500 - $ 110 ) , empty the " online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as usual . Now your " online " envelope is zero again , and you rinse and repeat .
The IRS publishes an exhaustive set of explicit lookup tables in <URL> Determine the payroll period-weekly , biweekly , monthly , etc. . For bonuses and exceptional payments there several options available . Determine your exemption , a function of the allowances you reported on W-4 and payroll period ( and technically , citizenship status ) . Take the gross amount in the check . Subtract the exemption . Cross reference the net amount in the lookup table for the payroll period . That 's the amount withheld .
There is not necessarily a direct relationship between the current account - which can either be a surplus or deficit - and the government budget deficit . The current account is a gross measurement of imports versus exports for a country . If a country is importing more goods than it is exporting then it is running a current account deficit . It is running a surplus if it is exporting more goods than it is importing . In the US , the government derives most of its revenue from <URL> : If the US cut off all imports and exports the US government would still receive income because of the US citizens employed inside the country who are still paying income and payroll taxes . If US taxes were based on import/export duties then the US government would be more sensitivity to the current account .
The IRS looks at your marital status on December 31st to determine at what rate you will pay taxes . We can assume that for this year you will file Married . The withholding tables which are triggered by the numbers and terms you put on the W-4 are used to get your withholding close to the eventual total amount owed . Of course the more complex your situation -- deductions for mortgage , education , high state and local income tax -- the more adjustments you need to make . On the <URL> the IRS has the following instructions : If you are single and have more than one job or are married and you and your spouse both work and the combined earnings from all jobs exceed $ 50,000 ( $ 20,000 if married ) , see the Two-Earners/Multiple Jobs Worksheet on page 2 to avoid having too little tax withheld . Two earners or multiple jobs . If you have a working spouse or more than one job , figure the total number of allowances you are entitled to claim on all jobs using worksheets from only one Form W-4 . Your withholding usually will be most accurate when all allowances are claimed on the Form W-4 for the highest paying job and zero allowances are claimed on the others . See Pub . 505 for details . Remember that the W-4 and the withholding does n't change what you pay in taxes , it only changes the timing of the payments . In general a person that has a W-4 with the status of Single will have more withheld compared to a person making the same amount but with a status of Married . You should correct this via changing the W-4 . Note that not correcting it is n't a crime , but keeping it correct makes it easier to estimate correctly .
The problem would not only be that of Kyle but also that of American Express . When Kyle pays by credit card , American Express pays the bills out of their pockets on his behalf and then forwards the bill to Kyle . The issuer of a credit card takes the risk that the holder of the card wo n't pay the credit card bill . In practice there are safeguards in place which prevent a company like AE to pay such huge sums in one day through an automated process . Credit card companies have sophisticated algorithms to determine unusual spending patterns and block any transactions which appear unusual . Also , after a few billions their bank will likely block them and prevent them from paying any more bills . But let 's play along and pretend these safeguards would n't exist . That means after Kyle 's spending spree , American Express will be trillions in debt , with their main debitor being a 10 year old boy who wo n't ever be able to pay . Kyle will have to declare personal bankruptcy . There are various variants of bakruptcy in the US , but they basically all boil down to him paying everything he can pay ( not much considering that he is 10 ) and then defaulting on his debt . Afterwards he is debt-free . That means the debt is now that of American Express . American Express will not be able to pay that debt with their bank ( s ) either , so they will have to declare bankruptcy and default on their debt too . This domino effect passes the burden on to the banks which can not carry a trillion-level debt either . A bank going bankrupt is a serious issue because it means they can not pay back any of the money in the saving accounts hold by companies or private people with them . So the problem would return to those people Kyle wanted to help in the first place . Also , the collapse of one bank will often result in the collapse of further banks , resulting in a collapse spiral destroying the whole world-wide finance system . Nothing would be gained .
The average of a dozen good answers is close to what would be right , the wisdom of crowds . But any one answer will be skewed by one 's own opinions . The question is missing too much detail . I look at $ 400K as $ 16K/yr of ongoing withdrawals . How much do you make now ? When the kids are all in school full time , can your wife work ? $ 400K seems on the low side to me , especially with 3 kids . How much have you saved for college ? The $ 150K for your wife is also a bit low . Without a long tangent on the monetary value of the stay at home spouse , what will you spent on childcare if she passes ? Term life also has a expiration date . When my daughter was born , my wife and I got 20 year term . She is now 16 , her college account fully funded , and we are semi-retired . The need for insurance is over . If one of us dies , the survivor does n't need this big of a house , and will have more than they need to be comfortable in a downsized one . My belief is that the term value should bridge the gap to the kids getting through college and the spouse getting resettled . Too much less , I 'd have left my wife at risk . Too much more , she 'd be better off if I were dead . ( I say that half joking , the insurance company will often limit the size policy to something reasonable . )
I 'm not yet familiar with U.K. tax , but I do know what to search for . I came across the following references -- the first is definitive since it 's from the web site of Her Majesty 's Revenue and Customs -- HMRC . What I found particularly interesting is that HMRC 's " Gift Aid " mechanism provides for most of the tax relief to go back to the charity . Excerpts from <URL> : How Gift Aid works The Gift Aid scheme is for gifts of money by UK taxpayers . Charities or CASCs take your donation - which is money you 've already paid tax on - and reclaim basic rate tax from HM Revenue &amp; Customs ( HMRC ) on its ' gross ' equivalent - the amount before basic rate tax was deducted . Basic rate tax is 20 per cent , so this means that if you give # 10 using Gift Aid , it 's worth # 12.50 to the charity . [ ... ] Claiming back higher rate tax If you pay higher rate tax , you can claim the difference between the higher rate of tax ( 40 per cent ) and the basic rate of tax ( 20 per cent ) on the total ( gross ) value of your donation to the charity or CASC . For example , if you donate # 100 , the total value of your donation to the charity is # 125 - so you can claim back 20 per cent of this ( # 25 ) for yourself . You can make this claim on your Self Assessment tax return if you were sent one . [ ... ] See also <URL> Excerpts from <URL> : Details Gift Aid allows individuals who are subject to UK income tax , to complete a simple , short declaration that they are a UK taxpayer . Any cash donations that the taxpayer makes to the charity after making a declaration are treated as being made after deduction of income tax at the basic rate [ ... ] and the charity can reclaim the basic rate income tax paid on the gift from HMRC . [ ... ] Higher-rate taxpayers can claim income tax relief , above and beyond the amount claimed directly by the charities . [ ... ] Gift Aid can only be reclaimed on money donated by UK taxpayers . Non-UK taxpayers can make donations but the donation will not be eligible for a tax reclaim from HMRC . [ ... ]
Starting a budget can be very overwhelming . The first step is to find the format that works best for you ! Formats vary and include biweekly , weekly , monthly , or annually . I usually suggest either bi-weekly or monthly , because creating an annual budget can get a little overwhelming . There are many different ways you can do a budget , but the formula is the same for all : Income -- Expenses = Bottom Line Start with your income . This income will include any income that is definite . Any side jobs or money given to you that is not regular should not be added in these calculations , and should just be considered extra money that goes into your savings account . If your paycheck changes constantly , try taking the average of your last 6 months to accurately calculate your income . Remember it is always better to calculate this on the lower side if you are not sure . Again , any extra money can be put into your savings . Once you have your income calculated , move on to your expenses . Typically there are two separate areas for this . The first section is for the day-to-day living expenses . This includes anything from your rent and utilities to your food . The second area is the one people tend to get stuck on because they forget to add in purchases that do not happen all the time . These are items such as gifts , school tuition , books , clothes , and medical expenses . Though you do not need these items every month , it is helpful to put away a little bit each month for these expenses so that when they do come around you have the money already saved and in an account to use . Try to also include a spot in your budget for pocket money . This is the money you will keep on you to pay for things like beverages , snacks , and those items that were forgotten in your normal grocery shopping trips . The last section is your monthly debts . These are your mortgages , loans , and credit cards . Having these in a separate section helps to allow you to see those debts more clearly and separate them out to help understand where you are . These are the debts you should continually work on to pay off each month . If you have a positive bottom line , try adding a little more to your monthly payments ! Once you have clearly identified your income and expenses you finally have your bottom line . Contrary to popular belief , this number should be zero . The only time you should have excess in the budget is if your paycheck was more than originally calculated , or if you were given money . In this case put the extras in your savings or pay down some of your debt . Keeping this number as close to zero as possible will allow you to be able to use your money as efficiently as possible ! Here 's a tip ! Use budgetsketch.com to map out your bills ! Though the paper budget is excellent as well , this site allows you to work with your budget and change it constantly to match your paychecks . It works on a week-by-week basis , rather than a monthly basis , and is completely free !
First , you file using federal schedule 1 and the corresponding provincial form . Federally , the credit is a dollar for dollar reduction of the tax payable ( it is a non-refundable tax credit ) . For federal tax , the credit is 15 % of the first $ 200 of donation and 29 % on all amounts over $ 200 . Be aware that the maximum you can claim is limited to 75 % of your net income ( the excess can be carried forward 5 years ) . See the article at <URL>
$ 400K is equity , $ 200K is principal owed on your mortgage . Cost basis is still $ 500K .
The regulators ( in the past , at least ) and banks distinguish demand-deposit ( checking ) accounts from savings accounts . Checking accounts are without such limits , but savings accounts are subject to withdrawals-per-month limitations . The overall effect of this is to slow the speed with which money flows through the savings account , thus essentially making the money remain on deposit for a longer time . That 's exactly why generally savings accounts pay more interest than checking accounts .
If the cash flow information is complete , the valuation can be determined with relative accuracy and precision . Assuming the monthly rent is correct , the annual revenue is $ 1,600 per year , $ 250/mo * 12 months - $ 1,400 / year in taxes . Real estate is best valued as a perpetuity where is the price , is the income , and is the rate of interest . Theoreticians would suggest that the best available rate of interest would be the risk free rate , a 30 year Treasury rate ~ 3.5 % , but the competition ca n't get these rates , so it is probably unrealistic . Anways , aassuming no expenses , the value of the property is $ 1,600 / 0.035 at most , $ 45,714.29 . This is the general formula , and it should definitely be adjusted for expenses and a more realistic interest rate . Now , with a better understanding of interest rates and expenses , this will predict the most likely market value ; however , it should be known that whatever interest rate is applied to the formula will be the most likely rate of return received from the investment . A Graham-Buffett value investor would suggest using a valuation no less than 15 % since to a value investor , there 's no point in bidding unless if the profits can be above average , ~ 7.5 % . With a 15 % interest rate and no expenses , $ 1,600 / .15 , is $ 10,666.67 . On average , it is unlikely that a bid this low will be successful ; nevertheless , if multiple bids are placed using this similar methodology , by the law of small numbers , it is likely to hit the lottery on at most one bid .
A closed-end fund is a collective investment scheme that is closed to new investment once the fund starts operating . A typical open-ended fund will allow you to buy more shares of the fund anytime you want and the fund will create those new shares for you and invest your new money to continue growing assets under management . A closed-end fund only using the initial capital invested when the fund started operating and no new shares are typically created ( always exception in the financial community ) . Normally you buy and sell an open-end fund from the fund company directly . A closed-end fund will usually be bought and sold on the secondary market . Here is some more information from <URL> Some characteristics that distinguish a closed-end fund from an ordinary open-end mutual fund are that : it is closed to new capital after it begins operating , and its shares ( typically ) trade on stock exchanges rather than being redeemed directly by the fund . its shares can therefore be traded during the market day at any time . An open-end fund can usually be traded only at the closing price at the end of the market day . a CEF usually has a premium or discount . An open-end fund sells at its NAV ( except for sales charges ) . Another distinguishing feature of a closed-end fund is the common use of leverage or gearing to enhance returns . CEFs can raise additional investment capital by issuing auction rate securities , preferred shares , long-term debt , and/or reverse-repurchase agreements . In doing so , the fund hopes to earn a higher return with this excess invested capital .
It really depends on the credit reporting agency , and then on the people reading it . In this case , given the effectively small amount of the loan , so long as you are making the payments I would not be too concerned about it . What matters more in a revolving credit situation is the paying-off ; so if you make all payments on time , etc. , you are likely fine .
There is no benefit in life insurance as such ( ie , death insurance . ) There is a great deal of value in other types though : total and permanent disability insurance , trauma insurance ( a lump sum for a major medical event ) , and income protection insurance ( cover against a temporary but disabling medical condition ) . If you do n't have that , you should get it right now . This is about the most important insurance you can carry . Being unable to work for the rest of your life has a far larger impact than having , say , your car stolen . ... If , later on , you acquire dependents , and you feel you ought to have life insurance , then you will have a relationship with a life insurance company , and maybe they will let you upgrade from income/TPD to income/TPD/life without too much fuss or requalification . Some do ; whether yours would I do n't know . But at least you have a toe in the door with them , in a way that is infinitely more immediately useful than getting life insurance that you do n't actually need .
This is actually a very complicated question . The key reading in this area is a seminal paper by Almgren &amp; Chriss , " Optimal Execution of Portfolio Transactions " ( 2000 ) . They show that there 's a tradeoff between liquidating your portfolio faster and knowing the value with more certainty , versus liquidating more slowly ( and likely for a higher price ) but with less certainty . So for example , if you sold your entire position right now , you would know almost certainly how much you would get for the position . Or , you could sell off your position more slowly , and likely get more money , but you would have less certainty about how much you would get . The paper is available online at <URL>
end question
start question
Is my 529 contribution tax deductible ?
Here 's another wrinkle : neither New York nor New Jersey are community property states . So , your wife 's income is her , your income is yours , and they 're not related . You can just spend it together and give it to each other with no consequences . So if you are contributing from your income - I believe you can claim it as deductible in New York . If your wife is contributing , from her income - you can not . If you both are contributing - I 'd suggest some splitting rules , and portion attributed to you ( say , for example , 50 % ) will be deductible . Run this through your tax adviser , of course .
Found the problem , the actual numbers used are for the annual , not for semi-monthly , so multiplying my gross by 24 and calculating that way , then dividing the final tax by 24 solved the problem .
Deposits are contributions . You deposit say , $ 5000 , and over time you have $ 6000 . The $ 5000 can be withdrawn any time with no issue . It 's tracked via <URL> . With this in mind , I wrote an article <URL> , suggesting that since one can withdraw deposits with no issue , the Roth can be used to hold emergency money .
The relevant section from <URL> seems to be <URL> : Long-Term Care You can include in medical expenses amounts paid for qualified long-term care services and premiums paid for qualified long-term care insurance contracts . Qualified Long-Term Care Services Qualified long-term care services are necessary diagnostic , preventive , therapeutic , curing , treating , mitigating , rehabilitative services , and maintenance and personal care services ( defined later ) that are : Required by a chronically ill individual , and Provided pursuant to a plan of care prescribed by a licensed health care practitioner . Chronically ill individual . An individual is chronically ill if , within the previous 12 months , a licensed health care practitioner has certified that the individual meets either of the following descriptions . He or she is unable to perform at least two activities of daily living without substantial assistance from another individual for at least 90 days , due to a loss of functional capacity . Activities of daily living are eating , toileting , transferring , bathing , dressing , and continence . He or she requires substantial supervision to be protected from threats to health and safety due to severe cognitive impairment . Maintenance and personal care services . Maintenance or personal care services is care which has as its primary purpose the providing of a chronically ill individual with needed assistance with his or her disabilities ( including protection from threats to health and safety due to severe cognitive impairment ) .
Because 401k 's are also used by self employed . A person who has a schedule C profitable income can open a 401k and " match " in whatever ratio he wants , up to 25 % of the net profits or the limits you stated . This allows self-employed to defer more income taxes to the future . Why only self-employed ? Good question . Ask your congressman . My explanation would be that since they 're self-employed they 're in much more danger of not having income , especially later in life , if their business go south . Thus they need a bigger cushion than an average W2 employee who can just find another job .
Sorry , it appears not , according to <URL> : ... and the election to make Roth 401 ( k ) contributions ( these are after-tax contributions ) is irrevocable . <URL> says the same thing . PS , do n't complain too loudly , given the reason for the problem . :)
You do n't have to make the repairs , if they 're just cosmetic . The insurance company does n't care if your house looks good or not . On the other hand , if the repairs are structurally necessary to prevent water damage to the house , not making them may result in the company raising your rate or not renewing the policy due to the increased risk . You can try asking your agent if you can get a ruling on that now , before deciding whether to spend the money . And of course if you do n't do it , they may not count this damage toward your deductible for future damage this year .
You are correct and the ATO is incorrect . Basically the ATO staff are as lazy as they can be . If you have entered the Parental pay leave at Item 1 - Salary or wages , as you correctly have , the ATO staff will not go into the background details of whom the payment is from by checking the ABN ( i.e. finding out that the payment comes from Centrelink and not an employer ) . You have to basically inform them in writing as an attachment with your Tax Return . As you have not done that , no matter how many times you call the ATO to go through your case , even if the Customer Service Officer ends up agreeing with you , it then gets sent to someone else to review it . And unless they have something in writing to explain the issue they will just dismiss it and still disallow the deduction . So what you have to do is to download an <URL> , fill it out and explain your case in detail and fax it to the ATO together with any evidence supporting your case . As this is now in writing explaining your case you should get someone at the ATO who actually corrects the ATO error , but be aware it will take some time and the ATO may ask you to pay any monies due in the mean time . Try to get the payment deferred if you can until the matter is resolved . When you talk to ATO staff on the phone regarding this issue always ask them for their name and the reference number . Record this down together with the time and date of the call . You never know when you might need this information , especially if you are given the wrong information by someone and you act on it .
Forms 1095B and 1095C will be required for the <URL> , and are due to you by February 1 , 2016 ( basically the same deadline as your W-2 ) . If you 're provided minimum essential coverage by a plan ( including Medicaid ) , that plan is required to send you the appropriate form by that date . Employer sponsored plans , government plans , Marketplace plans , and any other plan all are subject to this requirement . Contact your insurer or the agency responsible for Medicaid , in order to obtain more information as to when that form will be available and to ensure your address is up to date . Finally , the IRS has indicated that you do not need to wait for these forms . Following the advice from <URL> , you may complete your tax returns without these forms so long as you have other information that proves you have coverage . You wo n't be prevented from filing ( as you 're basically checking a box ) , so long as you are n't enrolled in a marketplace plan .
Putting money into a Roth IRA or 401 ( k ) will save you money if your taxes this year will be lower than your taxes in retirement . If you 're young and just starting your career , there 's a good chance of this in general . Even if you 're not , most people are anticipating tax increases in our nation 's future If you have a lot of expenses one year , e.g. for medical reasons , you may have to realize a significant amount of income that year , so having it be Roth money instead of regular can help avoid higher taxes . See also <URL>
Given your numbers , expect to pay about 11 % in total income taxes . Use <URL> for reference .
Answer : something in-between . There are two key parts to the determination of wheater a person can deposit money under the single plan or the family plan : Situation on December first Situation each month . Here is the info on <URL> with instructions From Line 3 of Form 8889 : If you were under age 55 at the end of 2013 , and on the first day of every month during 2013 , you were , or were considered , an eligible individual with the same coverage , enter $ 3,250 ( $ 6,450 for family coverage ) . All others , see the instructions for the amount to enter ... From the instructions for line 1 If you were covered , or considered covered , by a self-only HDHP and a family HDHP at different times during the year , check the box for the plan that was in effect for a longer period . If you were covered by both a self-only HDHP and a family HDHP at the same time , you are treated as having family coverage during that period . If , on the first day of the last month of your tax year , December 1 for most taxpayers , you had family coverage , check the " family " box . For the instructions for Line 3 : You see which option applies to you . In the most difficult case you take the first of each month and answer single or family . If single then that month is credited with the annual amount for single , if family then that month is credited with the annual amount for family . Add them up and divide by 12 . That is what you can contribute/deduct for the year .
No . But there are some states in which a state income tax deduction is offered only for in-state 529 plans . Your child can go to any college regardless of 529 state .
The answer is no . A superannuation fund will have it 's own tax return , and any net loses during a financial year will be carried forward to offset superannuation gains in future income years . If you have a SMSF , then the SMSF will have to complete and lodge its own tax return .
The I in IRA stands for Individual . You can do a backdoor conversion of all or part of your Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA all by yourself regardless of whether your spouse converts her IRA or not , and the taxable part of the rollover is determined by what your Form 8606 says , not what is on her Form 8606 . But since you file a joint return with your spouse , she will have the ineffable joy of being as liable as you for the income tax that is due on the conversion : on a joint tax return , both spouses are jointly and severally liable for the tax due ( no halfsies ) . If one person does not pay , the other is liable for the entire amount .
<URL> It 's 5 days later , and the site shows as above ( i.e. they fixed it after receiving my note ) . For whatever one can say to criticize the tax code , it 's written by congress , not the IRS . When I say " my friends at the IRS " it 's not to be snarky , but a sincere thanks for how responsive and helpful I 've found them in my 35 years of paying taxes . ( And for what it 's worth , this morning I saw an IRS email , telling me they corrected the typo and thanking me for the note . )
My friend and tax-crush Kay Bell wrote an article that addressed this very well at <URL> . ( The short answer is yes , you most likely can . Read the article for full details . )
my taxable income was roughly $ 230,000 in 2012 . Indeed it is relevant . <URL> for deductible IRA contributions is 112K . So no , IRA contribution will not help you reducing your tax bill this year . The deduction phases out starting from AGI limits of $ 10K in certain cases ( for married filing separately ) , and phases out entirely for anyone at AGI of 112K ( for 2012 ) . The table linked describes the various deduction phase-out parameters depending on your filing status , and will probably be updated yearly by the IRS . However this is only relevant if your company provides a retirement plan , as Joe mentioned . If your company does n't provide a retirement plan but your spouse 's does - then <URL> . If neither you nor your spouse ( if you have one ) is covered - then there 's no AGI limit , and you can indeed make an IRA contribution before April 15th that would be attributed to the previous year and reduce your tax bill . Note that " provides " means the plan is available , even if you do n't participate in it , any time during the year .
As far as I know about TFSA 's , you would be correct in that you are taxed on the $ 1000 extra you 've put in , but not on the original $ 5000 . Although , one good thing about TFSA 's are that every year your account is open , the limit of $ 5000 is added on to the previous limit , not the amount of money you 've put in . If you open one and put in $ 20 , and wait a year , your limit will be increased to $ 10000 , rather than just the additional $ 5000 . So at least if you have the account open long enough , you could deposit much more than $ 5000 without paying taxes on the interest .
In general , yes , the interest portion of student loan payments is tax deductible , but this is not always the case , as tax law ( as always ) is more complicated than it could be : Review <URL> for the details of when it is tax deductible There are income restrictions - if you make more than $ 75,000 as a single income or $ 150,000 while married the interest payments are not tax deductible Remember that you 'll have to itemize to get this deduction . The standard deduction is $ 5,700 for a single person , and usually you 'll have to either give a lot of money to charity or have a mortgage where mortgage interest is tax deductible in order to see any benefit ( for example , are you actually paying more than $ 5700 in student loan interest per year ? That 's a lot of loans ) . For all the possible tax deductions/credits , see the entire <URL>
end question
start question
How to choose basic health insurance in the Netherlands ?
You can check this website : <URL> It asks you some basic questions about how much of a deductable you would like , whether or not you would like dental insurance and so on . You should be able to use Google translate to help if need be . As for the health insurance subsidy ( zorgtoeslag ) , the above website says the criteria to receive it are : You 're 18 years or older You 're a Dutch citizen or legally staying in the Netherlands You have a " basic " health insurance plan as specified in the law You are not in prison , in active military service or are not opposed to insurance due to religious reasons You have a maximum income of ( in 2014 ) 28.482 as a single person or 37.145 with a partner . The amount of subsidy you could get depends on your income ( as shown in the graph on the same webpage ) : <URL> The simplest way to deal with these things is to get some help from a local once you are there . If a few euro / month subsidy is going to make or break your decision to study in the Netherlands , I would advise against going there . The rules around these things tend to change every couple of years , sometimes favorably and sometimes unfavorably .
The most obvious answer is by referral . A friend or loved one who had a good experience with this process . I 'd suggest you first research the topic itself on your own . If you read a few books on this topic just to get an understanding , you 'll know better what to ask during the process itself , and you 'll better gauge the attorney 's expertise . The one key thing I 'd suggest is that you not go with a generalist . You need to use an attorney who only does estate planning along with the sub topics you seek . There 's enough for them to keep on top of in the way of changing laws that you do n't want a jack-of-all-trades . Her office may also handle real estate closings ( for example ) but you want her to be 100 % focused . I 've had dealings with a full service firm , but each lawyer had a narrow expertise .
You should ask a customer service rep how much you 'll net if you close the account . There will probably be a hefty surrender fee . What you get back should n't be taxable as its a return of your own money , not a gain .
Quoted from <URL> Personal injury protection ( or PIP , for short ) is a type of medical payments coverage added on to an auto > insurance policy that provides you , the policyholder -- as well as your passengers , relatives living in your home , > and drivers authorized to operate your vehicle -- with medical coverage for immediate and subsequent injuries > sustained during an auto accident . PIP also covers you and your family if you 're injured in a car accident while in someone else 's vehicle and , in > some states , if you 're struck by a vehicle while you 're a pedestrian . So if everyone you are driving with is covered by Personal Health Insurance , you may not need to go for this .
Federal income taxes are indeed expenses , they 're just not DEDUCTIBLE expenses on your 1120 . Federal Income Tax Expense is usually a subcategory under Taxes . This is one of the items that will be a book-to-tax difference on Schedule M-1 . I am presuming you are talking about a C corporation , as an S corporation is not likely to be paying federal taxes itself , but would pass the liability through to the members . If you 're paying your personal 1040 taxes out of an S-corporation bank account , that 's an owner 's draw just like paying any of your personal non-business expenses . I would encourage you to get a tax professional to prepare your corporate tax returns . It 's not quite as simple as TurboTax Business makes it out to be . ;) Mariette IRS Circular 230 Notice : Please note that any tax advice contained in this communication is not intended to be used , and can not be used , by anyone to avoid penalties that may be imposed under federal tax law .
Your best approach is to assess rent levels in your local area for offices of a similar size . You need to take into account all the usuals - amenities , parking , etc , just as if your home-office was provided by a third-party . Get your $ / sq ft and work out the monthly amount . With this figure , you need to then work out what % of it you can charge . If the space is used exclusively for the business , charge 100 % . If it 's used about half the time , charge 50 % , etc. . I would strongly advise you to do two things - 1 . make sure your accountant and your attorney help you get this squared away . 2 . document everything about how you arrived at the cost . Nothing fancy , but dates , realtors , addresses , $ / sq foot . A simple table will do . By doing these two things , if the IRS should come around to chat , you should be covered .
From the page you referenced , first click the link <URL> . There you 'll find the calculation itself , but not the percentage rate . Then from that page , near the bottom , click the link <URL> . It 's almost the same title as the prior page , so a little confusing , but that pluralized version has the data you were looking for . Partial quote : The same rates are applied across Canada , except in the province of Quebec . That province has a different set of rates because they administer their own Parental Insurance Plan . In particular , self-employed workers in Quebec can opt into QPIP ( even if they would n't qualify to participate in EI ) and potentially collect parental benefits . Typical non-self-employed workers in Quebec pay into both EI ( at the reduced rates for Quebec ) as well as QPIP .
I would ask for a down payment of 1000 Euros through paypal or a similar payment source . If he backs out , he forfeits the 1000 eu . If that happens your airfare is covered plus some spending money . If he does not cancel then the down counts towards payment . In order for him to feel safer , I would take a pic of the ring with today 's paper , or something that can be dated as recent . Keep in mind you guys can meet at a bank to do the exchange . This way you both feel safer . The bottom line is what are you willing to do to sell the ring at that price ?
Choose the address based on where you currently live ( where you are mailing the tax return from . ) You can find the <URL> . Just choose the state you live in , and the website will give you the correct mailing address . If you get it wrong , I do n't think it matters a whole lot , except perhaps to delay things a little bit . They just assign different addresses to different states to try to divide up the returns among the various offices evenly .
There 's a couple of nuances to bear in mind . If your employer is subject to COBRA requirements , as Ben Miller mentions , you 'll be able to continue your coverage via COBRA as long as there was no gross misconduct . Continuation coverage must be continuous , you ca n't have a break in coverage . ( e.g. if you lose coverage June 30 , you can not elect to have COBRA begin 8/1 ) You 'll pay the full gross premium , not just your contribution , plus an up to 2 % administrative fee . ( It would n't surprise me if your monthly COBRA premium is several hundred dollars ) If your current employer offers multiple medical plan options you will only be offered continuation under your currently elected plan option . You can continue your coverage via COBRA even if you are eligible for a new employer 's plan . But , if you waive your new employer 's coverage when it 's offered to you , you will not be able to enroll in your new employer 's plan until the next open enrollment or your next qualifying event . You have 63 days from your coverage loss date or your date of COBRA notification , whichever is later , to actually elect COBRA continuation . It 's pretty common to wait until you actually need the coverage to make the election . Though do n't wait until too close to the deadline . Understand the COBRA offering before you make your decision . The price is likely to carry some sticker shock . If possible , understand your new employer 's plan before making your decision . It may actually be advantageous to you to walk away from the deductible you 've paid to take advantage of your new employer 's plan . If you 're on an HDHP with an HSA account , it may also be in your best interest to load up that HSA account with tax-free money while you 're still enrolled in the HDHP . You can spend HSA funds on qualified expenses but you can only contribute to it while you 're enrolled in a qualified HDHP . Depending on your age it may even be financially advantageous to buy yourself a $ 0 deductible gold or platinum individual plan as you transition from one employer to the next .
Danger . The affidavit is a legal document . Understand the risk of getting caught . If you are planning on using the condo to generate income the chances that you default on the loan are higher than an owner occupied property . That is why they demand more down payment ( 20 % + ) and charge a higher rate . The document is n't about making sure you spend 183 + nights a year in the property , it is making sure that it is n't a business , and you are n't letting a 3rd party live in the property . If you within the first year tell the mortgage company to send the bill to a new address , or you change how the property is insured , they will suspect that it is now a rental property . What can they do ? Undo the loan ; ask for penalty fee ; limit your ability to get a mortgage in the future ; or a percentage of the profits How likely is it ? The exact penalty will be in the packet of documents you receive . It will depend on which government agency is involved in the loan , and the lenders plan to sell it on the secondary market . It can also depend on the program involved in the sale of the property . HUD and sister agencies lock out investors during the initial selling period , They do n't want somebody to represent themselves as homeowner , but is actually an investor . Note : some local governments are interested not just in non-investors but in properties being occupied . Therefore they may offer tax discounts to residents living in their homes . Then they will be looking at the number of nights that you occupy the house in a year . If they detect that you are n't really a resident living in the house , that has tax penalties . Suggestion : If you do n't want to wait a year buy the condo and let the loan officer know what your plan is . You will have to meet the down payment and interest rate requirements for an investment property . Your question implies that you will have enough money to pay the required 20 % down payment . Then when you are ready buy the bigger house and move in . If you try and buy the condo with a non-investment loan you will have to wait a year . If you try and pay cash now , and then get a home equity loan later you will have to admit it is a rental . And still have to meet the investor requirements .
I believe the premiums are deductible , but the computation of the deduction is not necessarily simple . <URL> and <URL> discuss a problem that arose because , for self-employed individuals , the premium subsidy was dependent on the adjusted gross income , but ( due to the self-employed premium deduction ) , the adjusted gross income was circularly dependent on the premium subsidy . The IRS issued a <URL> on how to resolve this dependency , providing two algorithms for computing the deduction . The fact that the IRS issued a ruling to tell self-employed people how to deduct their ACA premium costs means those costs must be deductible . It is possible that TurboTax incorporates this ruling , and that 's why it 's telling you not to include ACA premiums at that particular point . Have you looked through the rest of TurboTax 's questions to see if it wants you to enter the ACA premiums somewhere else ?
Wikipedia says " The Canadian Securities Course ( CSC ) offered by the Canadian Securities Institute ( CSI ) is the initial course required for becoming licensed to work within the Canadian securities industry ( outside Quebec ) as a securities dealer or securities agent . " Src : <URL> EfficientMarket Canada adds " You require it and further courses for other jobs in the investment industry . Generally some work experience is also required . All of this is governed by various self-regulatory agencies . The material in the course is strong on money making products , and fairly weak on material that would actually protect a consumer from harm . Passing the course is very little indication that you understand what 's important about investing , for example , you wo n't be taught much of anything about the theory of investment , or the markets , or things like the efficient market hypothesis . " Src : <URL> So it appears that the CSC is necessary to work as certain types of financial agencies . That being said , I doubt it will be enough to get your foot in the door . This seems more like a prerequisite rather than a true qualification , so you 'll be competing with MBAs/Finance students and other people who either have experience or training in the financial industry . I 'd recommend you look into the Chartered Financial Analyst ( CFA ) certification as that will provide you with a rigorous knowledge of financial theory as well as asset management , which seems more appropriate for what you 'd like to do . From there you 'll have to network like crazy and leverage your experience to get in at a Canadian financial firm and eventually wealth management . So yes , I suppose a CSC is a good first step but more will certainly be required and I doubt it will be enough to land you a full time position . Another important factor is age - nobody expects undergrads to have extensive certifications or experience , but it 's harder for a 35 year old to enter a new industry , especially finance .
I 'd say you got this pretty close . The $ 900 multiplies to $ 10,800 , and becomes a Schedule A deduction to the extent that it exceeds 10 % of your adjusted gross income . The $ 1200 company plan simply comes off the top for tax purposes .
I believe the insurance you are talking about is the type of insurance that makes your payment in the event you ca n't pay due to some specific reasons . These types of insurance are profit centers for the credit card companies and are generally not worth it for the consumer . You are better off picking the best credit card that meets your needs and then finding your insurance needs separately . Typically , the best credit card payment insurance plan is to not carry a balance and have a reasonable emergency fund . Putting the money that would have gone to insurance towards those two goals will likely help you more than paying for the credit card insurance policy .
The insurance company is must assume you do have a preexisting condition you are unaware of . The reason for that is that Affordable Care Act precludes the Insurance company from denying coverage of them if you do . Insurance companies are businesses . They are in business to make money ( unless you have a nonprofit insurer ) . They can not do that if you can buy insurance only when you need for them to pay out . So even though you may not have a preexisting condition , they are precluded from requiring an examination that would detect the most expensive preexisting conditions ( hidden cancers , neurological , autoimmune disorders ) . So the companies must do what takes business sense and either deny you coverage or charge a rate that covers the risk they would be forced to take . In your question on travel there was a response that suggested you get international health insurance instead of travel health insurance that would be considered credible coverage . You are trying to save money which on a personal level is a good idea . However that is against the societal and business need that you maintain health coverage during your healthy times to cover the costs of those who need expensive treatment . So you will be monetarily penalized should you choose to reenter the society of insured people . Once you have paid the higher rate for up to 18 months you should be able to get a better policy for people who have had continuous coverage . Alternately you may be lucky enough to start working for a company that provides health insurance with out requiring continuous coverage .
The best thing you can do is shop around , and tell your current company that you 're shopping . I had been with GEICO for years and recently discovered ( while shopping for renter 's insurance ) that AllState offered the same coverage for a few hundred dollars less . When I called GEICO to cancel , they offered me an additional discount ( for being a member of a credit union ) that I had n't received before . I still switched , but was sad that I had n't been getting that extra discount just because I never asked if there were other discounts I might qualify for . This <URL> by ChristianPF talks about some changes you can make to reduce auto insurance costs .
Welcome to Money.SE . Please take a look at the recent question , <URL> . Much of the discussion of risk applies to this question as well . The numbers look like your mortgage is closer to 10 % of gross income . Life insurance in your case is a personal decision . In my opinion , life insurance should be to help loved ones left behind not experience financial trauma . The single wager earner dies , and leaves a non-working spouse with 2 toddlers and a mortgage ? Trauma . Your situation ? Not so much . You should start to plan your mortgage needs based on the kids you expect to have . When running the numbers after we got married , we had a house that we each could n't afford alone , and were planning a child that would go to college . If I were you , I 'd look at the worst case numbers , and price out term that will cover your planned children , but perhaps not buy the policies until the first one is born . House contents is purely up to you . You should ask your insurer what contents insurance for fire/theft will cost . Some people are minimalists , and can replace their entire furniture collection with a single paycheck . Others love there $ 10K leather sofa . If , as you suggest , you can self-insure contents , and would lose too much sleep repurchasing the contents after the house is re-built , that 's fine . To answer the original question - Term insurance . I 'd never buy a policy tied to a loan balance . To clarify - as time passes , the mortgage payment is less painful , its real value dropping with inflation and your salary increases . But the very fact that you are earning more , and more valuable to your spouse and children points toward needing more insurance , not less . An the house , while it 's great to kill that mortgage , has higher property taxes , along with higher maintenance costs as things need a round of repair or renovation . The need for insurance is more of a step function , and the use of multiple term policies can be timed to give you the right coverage depending on the stage of your life .
Most of the points by MrChrister are valid . I ca n't say much for Philippines , however there is a reason for one to go with individual insurance from my experience in India . Most of the insurance require you to stay with them for a period of 3 yrs before some of the other illness are covered under insurance . In this case it makes sense to continue for a single insurance with an insurer of your choice . Sometimes group insurance waive off or reduce the minimum period for some critical illness , you may need to check if there is any such clause in your employees insurance . Most of the company insurance is for a small amount . With rising medical costs this amount may not be sufficeint.Having your own insurance adds to a higher level of cover . For example if your employer has covered you for 100,000 and you have additional 100,000 on your own , and if you get hospitalized for an amount of 150,000 you can still get this covered as your overall limit is now 200,000 . Continuity Clause : Most of the insurance require you to prove that the illness is contracted during the priod of coverage and in certain cases this would be difficult to prove and one could be denied . For example my friend had a fall and a ligament tear , which he ignored for sometime . During this time he also changed jobs and was on other companies Medical Insurance policy . He had to later undergo a surgery to rectify this , but was n't paid because the doctor mentioned that this was pre-existing and could ' nt date this . Having a continious personal insurance will ensure these cases are avoided . Altough one can buy insurance when one is out of job , most of the time one is averse to spending / investing and one ends up not buying an insurance and the risk of this can turn out to be high .
Insurance provided by companies on a pre-tax basis must follow IRS regulations . Insurance is part of a " cafeteria plan " and they must limit your ability to change the items in the plan except during an annual open season , or after an IRS defined life event . The Affordable Care Act also has the concept of open season , to minimize the ability to wait until a person is sick before enrolling for coverage . There will be a annual open season , and there will be an ability to make changes after a life event . Even without the IRS regulations and the Affordable Care Act law insurance companies would want to minimize your ability to switch coverage levels . If you could add orthodontics coverage after your dentist tells you your child needs braces ; and then drop it after they are put on ; they would never be able to collect enough money to fairly price it . Therefore they limit your ability to make changes to open season/life events .
end question
start question
What is a decent rate of return for investing in the markets ?
Do n't ever , ever , ever let someone else handle your money , unless you want somebody else have your money . Nobody can guarantee a return on stocks . That 's utter bullshit . Stock go up and down according to market emotions . How can your guru predict the market 's future emotions ? Keep your head cool with stocks . Only buy when you are ' sure ' you are not going to need the money in the next 10 years . Buy obligations before stocks , invest in ' defensive ' stocks before investing in ' aggressive ' stocks . Keep more money in obligations and defensive stock than in aggressive stocks . See how you can do by yourself . Before buying ( or selling ) anything , think about the risks , the market , the expert 's opinion about this investment , etc. . Set a target for selling ( and adjust the target according to the performance of the stock ) . Before investing , try to learn about investing , really . I 've made my mistakes , you 'll make yours , let 's hope they 're not the same :)
A couple ideas : Use excel - it has an IRR ( internal rate of return ) that can handle a table of inputs as you describe , along with dates deposited to give you a precise number . Go simple - track total deposits over the year , assume half of that was present in January . So , for example , your account started the year with $ 10k , ended with $ 15k , but you deposited $ 4k over the year . It should be clear the return ( gain ) is $ 1k , right ? But it 's not 10 % , as you added during the year . I 'd divide $ 1k / $ 12k for an 8.3 % return . Not knowing how your deposits were structured , the true number lies between the 10 % and 6.7 % as extremes . You 'll find as you get older and have a higher balance , this fast method gaining accuracy , as your deposits are a tinier fraction of your account and likely spread out pretty smoothly over the year anyway .
I think these numbers are very location specific . Those house flipper tv shows loved to toss them out because they make great graphics , but they are nonetheless subjective . The only way I know how to guess the value of your home is to get comps . ( What similar homes in your local region sold for recently , withing a small radius such as a quarter or half mile . ) So to decide your ROI figure out your homes current resale value . Use one of dozens of home price estimators for this . Example 100K house , estimated value after adding a bath $ 120K , but the bathroom cost $ 10K to install . ( 120 / 100 ) - 1 = .2 or 20 % increase in the home value . Increase is $ 20K , but since the bathroom cost $ 10K your ROI is only $ 10k . ( is my math correct ? ) But that does n't tell you what new drapes , or updated carpeting will get you . Since you ca n't measure those numbers in any realistic way , you are stuck relying on the gut of a real estate agent , which is n't mathematical and therefore something I ca n't trust . For the little things , they are items that you would want to just make look and feel nice if you are selling the home . Things I have learned : Avoid Junky Lowes or Home Depot fixtures and parts . If you buy the cheap ones then your home looks like every cruddy apartment building in your city . Hire a pro for things that need to pass inspection Get your permits . Upgrades do n't count if they are n't documented Consider a big picture . I did one room at a time in my house and now the house reflects that . I should have planned the whole house stylewise , even if I only did one thing at a time . Never never never big the best or nicest house on the street . Do n't be the worst , do n't be the best .
There is no downside if you do n't carry a balance . Just pay it off every month and the interest rate is irrelevant . With interest rates on credit cards , the bank can decide to up your rate at any time . I have a card that I got with a 9.99 % interest rate that was fixed . After about a year it was upped . Now 5 years later the interest rate is like 18.99 % . Since I do n't carry a balance it has no affect on me .
Forms 1095B and 1095C will be required for the <URL> , and are due to you by February 1 , 2016 ( basically the same deadline as your W-2 ) . If you 're provided minimum essential coverage by a plan ( including Medicaid ) , that plan is required to send you the appropriate form by that date . Employer sponsored plans , government plans , Marketplace plans , and any other plan all are subject to this requirement . Contact your insurer or the agency responsible for Medicaid , in order to obtain more information as to when that form will be available and to ensure your address is up to date . Finally , the IRS has indicated that you do not need to wait for these forms . Following the advice from <URL> , you may complete your tax returns without these forms so long as you have other information that proves you have coverage . You wo n't be prevented from filing ( as you 're basically checking a box ) , so long as you are n't enrolled in a marketplace plan .
Index funds can be a very good way to get into the stock market . It 's a lot easier , and cheaper , to buy a few shares of an index fund than it is to buy a few shares in hundreds of different companies . An index fund will also generally charge lower fees than an " actively managed " mutual fund , where the manager tries to pick which stocks to invest for you . While the actively managed fund might give you better returns ( by investing in good companies instead of every company in the index ) that does n't always work out , and the fees can eat away at that advantage . ( Stocks , on average , are expected to yield an annual return of 4 % , after inflation . Consider that when you see an expense ratio of 1 % . Index funds should charge you more like 0.1 % -0.3 % or so , possibly more if it 's an exotic index . ) The question is what sort of index you 're going to invest in . The Standard and Poor 's 500 ( S&amp;P 500 ) is a major index , and if you see someone talking about the performance of a mutual fund or investment strategy , there 's a good chance they 'll compare it to the return of the S&amp;P 500 . Moreover , there are a variety of index funds and exchange-traded funds that offer very good expense ratios ( e.g. Vanguard 's ETF charges ~ 0.06 % , very cheap ! ) . You can also find some funds which try to get you exposure to the entire world stock market , e.g. Vanguard Total World Stock ETF , NYSE : VT ) . An index fund is probably the ideal way to start a portfolio - easy , and you get a lot of diversification . Later , when you have more money available , you can consider adding individual stocks or investing in specific sectors or regions . ( Someone else suggested Brazil/Russia/Indo-China , or BRICs - having some money invested in that region is n't necessarily a bad idea , but putting all or most of your money in that region would be . If BRICs are more of your portfolio then they are of the world economy , your portfolio is n't balanced . Also , while these countries are experiencing a lot of economic growth , that does n't always mean that the companies that you own stock in are the ones which will benefit ; small businesses and new ventures may make up a significant part of that growth . ) Bond funds are useful when you want to diversify your portfolio so that it 's not all stocks . There 's a bunch of portfolio theory built around asset allocation strategies . The idea is that you should try to maintain a target mix of assets , whatever the market 's doing . The basic simplified guideline about investing for retirement says that your portfolio should have ( your age ) % in bonds ( e.g. a 30-year-old should have 30 % in bonds , a 50-year-old 50 % . ) This helps maintain a balance between the volatility of your portfolio ( the stock market 's ups and downs ) and the rate of return : you want to earn money when you can , but when it 's almost time to spend it , you do n't want a sudden stock market crash to wipe it all out . Bonds help preserve that value ( but do n't have as nice of a return ) . The other idea behind asset allocation is that if the market changes - e.g. your stocks go up a lot while your bonds stagnate - you rebalance and buy more bonds . If the stock market subsequently crashes , you move some of your bond money back into stocks . This basically means that you buy low and sell high , just by maintaining your asset allocation . This is generally more reliable than trying to " time the market " and move into an asset class before it goes up ( and move out before it goes down ) . Market-timing is just speculation . You get better returns if you guess right , but you get worse returns if you guess wrong . Commodity funds are useful as another way to diversify your portfolio , and can serve as a little bit of protection in case of crisis or inflation . You can buy gold , silver , platinum and palladium ETFs on the stock exchanges . Having a small amount of money in these funds is n't a bad idea , but commodities can be subject to violent price swings ! Moreover , a bar of gold does n't really earn any money ( and owning a share of a precious-metals ETF will incur administrative , storage , and insurance costs to boot ) . A well-run business does earn money . Assuming you 're saving for the long haul ( retirement or something several decades off ) my suggestion for you would be to start by investing most of your money * in index funds to match the total world stock market ( with something like the aforementioned NYSE : VT , for instance ) , a small portion in bonds , and a smaller portion in commodity funds . ( For all the negative stuff I 've said about market-timing , it 's pretty clear that the bond market is very expensive right now , and so are the commodities ! ) Then , as you do additional research and determine what sort investments are right for you , add new investment money in the places that you think are appropriate - stock funds , bond funds , commodity funds , individual stocks , sector-specific funds , actively managed mutual funds , et cetera - and try to maintain a reasonable asset allocation . Have fun . * ( M
The difference is that APY takes into account the effects of compounding interest while APR does not . The difference only matters when more than one interest payment is made per year , which is the case most of the time . Here is an excellent article on the differences : <URL> Here is the formula to convert a stated interest rate to APY :
Do n't ever , ever , ever let someone else handle your money , unless you want somebody else have your money . Nobody can guarantee a return on stocks . That 's utter bullshit . Stock go up and down according to market emotions . How can your guru predict the market 's future emotions ? Keep your head cool with stocks . Only buy when you are ' sure ' you are not going to need the money in the next 10 years . Buy obligations before stocks , invest in ' defensive ' stocks before investing in ' aggressive ' stocks . Keep more money in obligations and defensive stock than in aggressive stocks . See how you can do by yourself . Before buying ( or selling ) anything , think about the risks , the market , the expert 's opinion about this investment , etc. . Set a target for selling ( and adjust the target according to the performance of the stock ) . Before investing , try to learn about investing , really . I 've made my mistakes , you 'll make yours , let 's hope they 're not the same :)
The Nebraska DMV web site has a <URL> about this . It seems to be fairly simple , and not costly to record a lien and later release it . Just go there with the title and the sales agreement that details the terms , and pay the $ 7 fee .
That 's the Total Return for the last 12 months . There was a dividend of $ 0.63 on December 22 , 2014 , causing the price to drop about $ 0.63 . If you reinvest that dividend at that time , that $ 0.63 will continue to grow till now . Use proper tools to look at Total Return : <URL> You would not see the gap down in December when using this tool , and the 1y Total Return on the chart clearly says ~ 16 %
That 0.625 % is the annual interest rate you 'll receive . It is paid out in two , semi-annual payments . That is , every six months you 'll receive a check for roughly 0.3125 % . <URL>
There still is some buying and selling to do in a passively-managed fund . The stocks might pay dividends . If the fund manager did n't reinvest these dividends , the fund would begin to accumulate a cash position , which would cause it to stray from being an index fund . Stocks come and go from an index as well ; if the fund is to maintain a composition that matches a particular index , this must be taken into account as well . The role of the manager is to ensure that the fund maintains the composition that it was intended to replicate . It does n't involve as much " stock picking " that active managers do . The manager has less leeway as to what s/he buys and sells , but there still is work involved .
There is no ready made forumulae . Put the Deposit in cell B3 as 10,000,000 Put the rate of interest in Cell B2 as 2 % [ Format this as Percnetage ] In Cell c3 write the formulae as = B3 * B2 * 3/12 [ Interest for 3 months till Dec ] In cell B4 write = B3 + C3 [ Principal as of 1st jan 13 and in cell C4 as = B4 * B2 [ Interest for full years ] In Cell B5 wirte = B4 + C4 [ new principal as of Jan 14 ] and in cell C5 as = B5 * B2 * 3/12 [ interest for 3 months on year 2014 ] In Cell B6 write = B5 + C5 . This is your revised amount at the end of period . My Calculation show this as 10,319,340 If you now want to find the interest for final amount of 10,300,000 use the Goal Seek function in XLS 2003 it is under tools - > Goal Seek , Enter the values as Set Cell : B6 To Value : 10,300,000 By Changing Cell : B2 The answer I got for the above problem is 1.87982299790449
Note : I have never heard of this company before this question was asked . These are my thoughts based on a quick review of their website . It seems that Motor Club of America is a roadside assistance service company , similar to AAA . It is ridiculously expensive : $ 20 per month for their " Total Security " plan , or $ 240 per year . This is about double what the highest level of AAA membership costs . As you noticed , they recruit people to sell their Total Security plan in a Multilevel Marketing type scheme . Your Facebook friends and acquaintances that " swear by it " are simply being paid to do so . It 's nothing more than that . Their job is to fill up your Facebook feed with a sales pitch for an overpriced product . Of course , you do n't need to be told this , but selling overpriced products to your friends is not the best way to make money or to keep your friends .
It means that you are expected to have received a separate piece of communication ( " advice " ) which confirms who the payment came from . This is common with CHAPS payments and overseas transactions .
There is a benefit to using it , but you only need to make 1-2 charges a year per card to get the benefit . That is enough to keep the account considered active and help your credit history length . In your situation I 'd say buy a lunch/dinner on each card a few times a year and stop using them until you have all your cards down to the point where you can pay them all off each month .
Unless and until you are ready to do the ground work and get your hands dirty in the market , it is better to let the money where it is . But how to distribute money in which asset classes , industry etc is your choice to make . But remember that a big investment company does n't guarantee that you will always earn a return higher than the market or it is safe with them . They are also bound to make mistakes and go bust , but it would be quite rare for companies , with billions of assets because they have strict checks in place and invest with extreme caution and proper research . One option is to try dabbling in the markets yourself , slowly , not everything at once . You will learn a lot and there are loads of information on the net and books in stores which could get you started . You will need to do a lot of groundwork to beat the market . That is difficult but not impossible . People have done it time and time again and they have put in hard work to do so . And I do n't see with a little bit of work and time , why you should n't be able to do that , unless and until you are lazy and do n't intend to do it .
Mortgage rates are determined in what is known as the " TBA " ( to be announced ) market . Most indices are in some way a function of the rate determined in this underlying market . From <URL> : Pass-through securities issued by Freddie Mac , Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae trade in the TBA market . The term TBA is derived from the fact that the actual mortgage-backed security that will be delivered to fulfill a TBA trade is not designated at the time the trade is made . The securities are " to be announced " 48 hours prior to the established trade settlement date . The mortgage rates determined in this market do correlate rather closely to rates in the parallel Treasury market , as many TBA traders are active in both markets ( usually for hedging duration , or overall interest rate risk , with Treasuries , in the case of mortgage traders ) and most traders think of the market in terms of their " spread " over Treasuries ( although there is no universal way to measure this spread , many models exist ) .
It literally means what the second sentence says in your question : They have been increased based on changes in the Consumer Price Index . According to the <URL> , all values were indexed to the consumer price index ( CPI ) . Since the CPI increased by 1.4 % in 2010 , all values were adjusted 1.4 % higher .
If one did the tracking and found that all is well , things may be fine in the short term . But , after a time , if you do n't pay attention , it 's easy for items to creep up . The restaurant costs rise , as might vacations or gadgets . Truth is , if you have a decent saving rate , say 20 % , and no debt , except for the mortgage , you may decide to stop tracking , it 's a great ' early warning ' process , but if your balance sheet is heading in the right direction , I 'd not criticize the decision to just enjoy that you are on the right track .
end question
start question
Can assets be transferred from an existing employer 401k to an Individual 401k ?
<URL> says you can roll over a 401k to another 401k . <URL> says that Solo 401ks " have the same rules and requirements as any other 401 ( k ) plan " , so you should be able to roll over a past employer 401k to a solo 401k . ( You ca n't generally roll over an employer 401k while you 're still with that employer , but you say these are old 401ks so they should be okay . ) Other pages from various investment firms and financial bloggers also say it is possible to do this ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) . However <URL> on the Bogleheads wiki says that " not all Solo 401 ( k ) plans accept incoming rollovers " . So even if it 's legal for you to do the rollover , that does n't mean the company you 're using to administer your Solo 401k will actually let you do it . If Vanguard wo n't let you do it , you could shop around to other Solo 401k providers to find one that will .
With these income levels you can not deduct any IRA contribution . I.e. : you can not save pre-tax , as you want . But you still can contribute to IRA ( as a non-deductible contribution ) , and using the " <URL> " transfer the contribution to Roth ( you are probably over the limit to be able to contribute to Roth directly ) . For pre-tax contributions - max out your 401k .
I would suggest to buy your own printer , and calculate the cost for a page including the wear to the printer . Then either deduce these printing expenses , or ask the charity to reimburse you . This is not much different than when you would go to a copyshop , those easily charge 10-30c per page , with your own printer you can probably get it around 5-10c per page , including paper , toner , drum , and amortization . The advantage is that when you do use the printer for other purposes , you wont get into any problems with who owns the printer or deductions .
The sentence you quoted does not apply in the case where you sell the stock at a loss . In that case , you recognize zero ordinary income , and a capital loss ( opposite of a gain ) for the loss . Reference : <URL>
There are certain allowable reasons to withdraw money from a 401K . The desire to free your money from a " bad " plan is not one of them . A rollover is a special type of withdrawal that is only available after one leaves their current employer . So as long as you stay with your current company , you can not rollover . [ Exception : if you are over age 59.5 ] One option is to talk to HR , see if they can get a expansion of offerings . You might have some suggestions for mutual funds that you would like to see . The smaller the company the more likely you will have success here . That being said , there is some research to support having few choices . Too many choices intimidates people . It 's quite popular to have " target funds " That is funds that target a certain retirement year . Being that I will be 50 in 2016 , I should invest in either a 2030 or 2035 fund . These are a collection of funds that rebalances the investment as they age . The closer one gets to retirement the more goes into bonds and less into stocks . However , I think such rebalancing is not as smart as the experts say . IMHO is almost always better off heavily invested in equity funds . So this becomes a second option . Invest in a Target fund that is meant for younger people . In my case I would put into a 2060 or even 2065 target . As JoeTaxpayer pointed out , even in a plan that has high fees and poor choices one is often better off contributing up to the match . Then one would go outside and contribute to an individual ROTH or IRA ( income restrictions may apply ) , then back into the 401K until the desired amount is invested . You could always move on to a different employer and ask some really good questions about their 401K . Which leads me back to talking with HR . With the current technology shortage , making a few tweaks to the 401K , is a very cheap way to make their employees happy . If you can score a 1099 contracting gig , you can do a SEP which allows up to a whopping 53K per year . No match but with typically higher pay , sometimes overtime , and a high contribution limit you can easily make up for it .
Yes , it 's been a rocky year . If your 401 ( k ) is diversified ( as it should be ) it should generally follow inflation and industry averages ( except outperforming them slightly in the longterm ) . For example , take a look at the Dow Jones Industrial Average : <URL> it 's down by 5 % over the past 6 months . ... so I 'd be worried if your 401 ( k ) did increase in value over the past year , because that would mean it is n't diversified . My own 401 ( k ) is down -8 % compared to 2 years ago . My personal opinion is the market will not improve much ( if at all ) over the coming year either .
For US stocks it 's a bit of a gamble . Many actively managed funds underperform the market indexes , but some of them outperform in many years . With an index you will get average results . With an active manager you " might " do better than average . So you can view active management as a higher risk , potentially higher reward investment approach . On the other hand , if you want to diversify some of your investments into international stocks , bonds , junk bonds , and real estate ( REITs ) active management is highly likely to be better than indexing . For these specialized areas specialized knowledge and research is needed .
What you 're looking for is the ' Transaction Report ' . When you 're looking at the report ( it comes up empty ) , open the options and click on the first tab ' Accounts ' . Here you can highlight multiple source accounts in the top pane , and filter by the Expense accounts that you are interested in the bottom pane . Here 's an <URL> that goes over the process ( there are many examples online , I just included the first one that came up in a search ) .
FICA No . FUTA Generally , FUTA is limited to a very low amount compared to the overall salary ( first $ 7K a year ) SDI Depends on the state law , generally is also limited to a certain maximum amount . SUI Same as SDI - depends on the state law . ETT If you 're referring to the California Employment Training tax - it is limited to the first $ 7K of the annual pay , same as FUTA . Non-taxable fringe benefits are not considered wages .
I am sorry but this does not really answer your question , but people do n't typically do this . It is often recommended they do the opposite . They move money from a Tax free plan ( like a tradition or roll over IRA ) into a ROTH IRA . A Roth IRA is much better for a person that is young . With a ROTH you pay taxes now ( you already have ) , and withdraw tax free on the growth . You can maintain and continue to contribute to your ROTH while also participating in the 401K . ( Income limits the contribution but not the maintenance . ) It is typically recommended that you first contribute to your 401K up to the match . Lets assume that it is 6 % , but you want to save 15 % of your income for retirement . So 6 % would go to your 401K , then the next 9 % would go into your ROTH . You may then have to revisit your 401K to put more in to get to the 15 % you desire . To complicate matters many 401K plans offer a ROTH option . The money you put in will go in taxed , but the match will be taxed . If your 401K plan offers such a ROTH option , you may still want to go up to the match , then into your private ROTH , then round it out with the rest of the money in the 401K . Why ? Because your may want different investment option then the 401K offers . You may not be finding much info on this because it is such a bad plan . I think you believe that you have to do such based on some false assumptions . Good work on taking care of your future needs .
IRA is not necessarily superior . You have to consider all the things together . Here are some potential benefits of not rolling over from 401k to IRA : Investment options . IRA is generally allowed for more variety , but in 401k you may have negotiated rates and the funds you do have there - are cheaper than they could have been if purchased through IRA . You have to check your own plan , because it differs from plan to plan . Fees - 401k may or may not charge fees ( in addition to the expense ratios of the funds ) , and so does IRA . Protections - 401k is protected from creditors under the Federal law , IRAs are protected ( mostly ) under the State law . Check which one is protected better in your State . Loans - 401k may allow loans , IRA never allows loans . Roth conversion - if you want to convert traditional IRA to Roth IRA - your total IRA balance is counted for tax calculation . If you do n't rollover 401k into IRA - you have lower conversion balance = > lower conversion tax . <URL> . A 401 ( k ) permits penalty free withdrawals if you are age 55 or older on separation from employer . The IRA , age 59-1/2 or one needs to look at the Sec 72 ( t ) rules which may not be what you want .
You can rollover money from a 401 ( k ) to Traditional IRA and back to a 401 ( k ) . There are likely account closure fees associated with this , so it 's not completely free . As long as you 're rolling from one tax deferred account to another there are no penalties . The IRS has a <URL> showing what accounts can roll where . Note , starting next year , you can only do one IRA rollover per year . The IRS has <URL> . One additional comment - on the concept of your money being " locked " into an IRA . Generally you have far more options with an IRA than a 401 ( k ) . If you go with a large , low cost provider like Vanguard you 're likely to be much better off than in a small company 401 ( k ) that only offers costly funds that are likely selected primarily to benefit the administrator of the plan . Choose your IRA provider and the investments with them wisely , and leave that money there for a very long time .
Probably not . You 've left your employer , so you are n't eligible to contribute to the 401 ( k ) anymore . After you 've left , they are required to keep your account open as long as you like , but after you 've rolled it over to something else and closed your account , they are not going to let you open your 401 ( k ) account up again . However , you need to ask yourself : Why do you want to go back to your 401 ( k ) from your IRA ? 401 ( k ) accounts are generally very restrictive as to what you can invest in ; they usually give you a small list of investing options . IRAs , on the other hand , are generally open to any investment you like , limited only by your imagination . If you are n't happy with your current IRA custodian , roll it over into a new one . I 'm sure you 'll be able to find an IRA with the same investment that you are looking for from your 401 ( k ) .
( Disclaimer : I am not an accountant nor a tax pro , etc. , etc. ) Yes , a Canadian corporation can function as a partial income tax shelter . This is possible since a corporation can retain earnings ( profits ) indefinitely , and corporate income tax rates are generally less than personal income tax rates . Details : If you own and run your business through a corporation , you can choose to take income from your corporation in one of two ways : as salary , or as dividends . Salary constitutes an expense of the corporation , i.e. it gets deducted from revenue in calculating corporate taxable income . No corporate income tax is due on money paid out as salary . However , personal income taxes and other deductions ( e.g. CPP ) would apply to salary at regular rates , the same as for a regular employee . Dividends are paid by the corporation to shareholders out of after-tax profits . i.e. the corporation first pays income tax on taxable income for the fiscal year , and resulting net income could be used to pay dividends ( or not ) . At the personal level , dividends are taxed less than salary to account for tax the corporation paid . The net effect of corporate + personal tax is about the same as for salary ( leaving out deductions like CPP . ) The key point : Dividends do n't have to be paid out in the year the money was earned . The corporation can carry profits forward ( retained earnings ) as long as it wants and choose to issue dividends ( or not ) in later years . Given that , here 's how would the partial income tax shelter works : Earn revenue for your corporation , doing whatever real business it does . * ( see far below ) Do not pay out all corporate revenue as salary . Leave all or most in the company . Revenue remaining in the company at the end of the year is subject to corporate income tax , likely at the corporate <URL> . e.g. Ontario , 2010 : 15.5 % . This rate is significantly less than the top personal income tax rate . Do not pay out those retained earnings as dividends . Leave all or most in the company . The company would invest retained earnings to generate a return . Next year , the company will owe tax on income generated by the invested retained earnings . ( Note : The tax man will want to see most of the company 's income being <URL> -- perhaps not a problem if it continues doing real business as in step 1 . ) Repeat . At some point , for you to personally realize income from the corporation , you can have the corporation declare a dividend . You 'll then have to pay personal income taxes on the income , at the dividend rates . But for as long as the money was invested inside the corporation , it was subject only to lesser corporate tax rates , not higher personal income tax rates . Hence the " partial " aspect of this kind of tax shelter . Or , if you 're lucky enough to find a buyer for your corporation , you could qualify for the <URL> on proceeds up to $ 750,000 when you sell a qualified small business corporation . This is the best exit strategy ; unfortunately , not an easy one where the business has no valuable assets ( e.g. a client base , or intellectual property . ) * The major sticking-point : You need to have real business revenue ! A regular employee ( of another company ) ca n't funnel his personally-earned employment income into a corporation just to take advantage of this mechanism . Sorry . : - /
Since your comment on @JoeTaxpayer 's answer says that you are still under the 2012 contribution limits if the extra money is left in your 401k account , I do not think that there is any problem for you if the money is left in the 401k account . As I understand it , your salary is $ X for 2012 of which you contribute some percentage per paycheck to your 401k account . Your contributions would have totaled $ Y for 2012 if the glitch of extra money being out into your 401k account had not occurred . In the absence of the glitch , your W-2 form would have reported $ X as gross wages , $ ( X-Y ) as taxable wages and $ Y as 401k contributions . Since an additional $ z has been put into your 401k account , but not deducted from your paycheck , your employer could do one of two things . The extra money could be withdrawn from your 401k account by your employer . If this is done , then your W-2 form will be as described above . The extra money is not withdrawn by your employer . Your W-2 form will still report $ ( X-Y ) as taxable wages , but $ ( Y + z ) as the 401k contribution and $ ( X + z ) as gross wages . Since $ ( Y + z ) is less than the maximum 2012 contribution , everything is fine . In your position , I would very much prefer the latter alternative over the former , not just because there is a larger contribution to the 401k account with no change in tax liability , but also because there is always the possibility that HR/Payroll will screw up the withdrawal of the excess contribution so that it appears as a premature withdrawal by the participant . In this case , the participant not only has to pay income tax on $ z but also a 10 % excise tax for premature withdrawal , without actually getting even a penny from that $ z taken out , which will go right back into the employer 's coffers .
Depends on how the money is invested within the 401k ... but in general , prices move both up and down with a long-tem bias toward up . Think of it this way : with fund shares priced lower now , you are getting shares cheaper than when you entered the plan . So this dip is actually working in your favor , as long as you are comfortable trusting that long-term view ( and trusting the funds your 401k money is going into ) . Believe me , it 's even scarier when you 're nearer your target retirement date and a 10 % dip may be six figures ... but it 's all theoretical until you actually start drawing the money back out , and you have to learn to accept some volatility as part of the trade-off for getting returns better than bonds .
Yes , they are within their rights to do so . The dollar limit of $ 18,000 ( in 2015 ) and percentage limit of 100 % are the maximum an employer can allow an employee to contribute , but the employer can set a lower limit . <URL> says : Contribution limits refer to the legal IRS limitations . Some companies cap 401 ( k ) contributions at amounts lower than official IRS contribution limits . There are numerous reasons a company would enforce such limitations , like cost , accounting or an outdated plan document . In theory an employer can set a lower percentage and/or lower absolute dollar limit . In practice I 've seen the former but never the latter . Depending on your employer 's reason for setting the lower limit , you may be able to convince them to raise it .
Ask your company just to make sure . My experience has been that it is based on the date of the check , not the end of the pay period or the date the 401K deposit was made . To verify this look at the stub for the paychecks at the end of 2012 and start of the new year , and compare them to your W2 . The first check for 2013 will restart all your year-to-date totals .
You are not allowed to take a retirement account and move it into the beneficiary 's name , an inherited IRA is titled as " Deceased Name for the benefit of Beneficiary name " . Breaking the correct titling makes the entire account non-retirement and tax is due on the funds that were not yet taxed . If I am mistaken and titling remained correct , RMDs are not avoidable , they are taken based on your Wife 's life expectancy from a table in <URL> , and the divisor is reduced by one each year . Page 86 is " table 1 " and provides the divisor to use . For example , at age 50 , your wife 's divisor is 34.2 ( or 2.924 % ) . Each year it decrements by 1 , you do not go back to the table each year . It sounds like the seller 's recommendation bordered on misconduct , and the firm behind him can be made to release you from this and refund the likely high fees he took from you . Without more details , it 's tough to say . I wish you well . The only beneficiary that just takes possession into his/her own account is the surviving spouse . Others have to do what I first described .
Transfer of Millions of USD in and out is not possible for Individuals . There are limits on how much money an individual Indian Ordinary Citizen can send or receive . If an corporate wants to send money , depending on the services offered , they would have to initiate a SWIFT transaction . It typically takes 2-3 days for settlement of International wire .
end question
start question
I rent out a room in my house , do I have to report the rent as income ?
It is income , and you must report it in the US for tax reasons . Do n't forget to subtract loses such as utilities , depreciation , work done on the house might be able to qualify . I think you report it on a Schedule E. I rent out a home and taxact.com walks me through how much money I made , then my expenses . Things like mileage , repair bills , administrative fees for a management company , utilities and the mortgage all make for a big loss for me . I am certain some of those things apply to you and your income can be lowered . <URL> <URL>
From the <URL> I think it is fairly clear that it is OK : Can I open a Help to Buy : ISA with someone else ? No . Help to Buy : ISAs are only available to individuals . But , you can put more than one government bonus towards the home you are buying . So , if you are buying a home with someone else who is also a first time buyer , they can open and save money into their own account and receive a government bonus . Inference : if you are buying a home with someone else who is NOT also a first time buyer , they ca n't get their own account and get the bonus ( but there 's no problem with you doing so ) . Alternatively - open the Help To Buy ISA , you 'll still get the normal interest rate on it , and then argue the case with the conveyancer / solicitor once you actually buy the property and claim the Government bonus . In fact , <URL> is the declaration you ( well , specifically , your girlfriend ) would have to sign at the point you jointly make the purchase . Nothing in there that forbids it being a joint purchase with a non-first-time-buyer either .
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
The easiest way is most likely to simply visit the bank in person . Bring proof of your identity ( passport , driver 's license , national photo ID card , or whatever else happens to be most viable in your particular case ) , walk up to the counter and simply tell them that you forgot your account number and need them to tell you what it is . With a very high degree of likelihood they will be able to help you out right then and there , and if they ca n't because of some regulation ( government-imposed or company-specific ) , then they will tell you exactly what more they need from you . If you want to , you certainly can call the bank and ask what documentation they will need before going to the branch office yourself , and there is always the possibility that you can call them and ask them to send you some type of customer summary which will include this information , but they almost certainly wo n't be able to simply give you the account number over the phone because you most likely do n't have any way to prove to them over the phone that you are who you claim to be with regards to your account . So likely the best you can hope to get out of a phone call is to be told what sort of documentation you need to bring with you when you visit the branch office , or if you are lucky that they will agree to physically mail the information to you .
From the page you referenced , first click the link <URL> . There you 'll find the calculation itself , but not the percentage rate . Then from that page , near the bottom , click the link <URL> . It 's almost the same title as the prior page , so a little confusing , but that pluralized version has the data you were looking for . Partial quote : The same rates are applied across Canada , except in the province of Quebec . That province has a different set of rates because they administer their own Parental Insurance Plan . In particular , self-employed workers in Quebec can opt into QPIP ( even if they would n't qualify to participate in EI ) and potentially collect parental benefits . Typical non-self-employed workers in Quebec pay into both EI ( at the reduced rates for Quebec ) as well as QPIP .
This is something you should decide as part of entering a partnership with someone . Ideally before you make the initial purchase you have a detailed contract written up . If you have already bought the house and someone is now ready to move out the easiest thing to do is sell the house . If that is not an option , you 'll have to decide on a plan together and then get it in writing .
Some landlords do this and others do n't . You could always try pushing back but do n't necessarily expect to get anywhere ; if I were you I would focus on removing the 3 % collar because the RPI and CPI are both below that - at the moment CPI is 0.6 % and RPI is 1.9 % . There are some interesting comments from landlords <URL> including the point that repairs and replacements get more expensive year-on-year . But fundamentally , as long as the landlord is following <URL> then they 're not doing anything illegal or unreasonable .
Create an account called , say , " Paycheck " . When you get paid , create an entry with your gross income as a deposit . For each deduction in your paycheck , create a minus ( or expense ) entry . After doing that , what will be left in the Paycheck account will be your net income . Simply transfer this amount to the real account your paycheck goes into ( your checking account , probably ) . Almost all the time , the value of your Paycheck account will be 0 . It will be nonzero only for a moment every two weeks ( or however often you get paid ) . I do n't know if this is the standard way of doing it ( in the professional accounting world ) . It 's a way I developed on my own and it works well , I think . I think it 's better than just adding a deposit entry in your checking account for your net income as it lets you keep track of all your deductions . ( I use Quicken for the Mac . Before they added a Paycheck feature , I used this method . Then they removed the Paycheck feature from the latest version of Quicken for the Mac and I now use this method again . )
The bank should have sent you an official tax document with the amount of interest you paid in 2015 listed . You may be able to also download this document from the bank 's website . My own form is a third of a page printout out , so you may not think much of it when you first get that document . If your taxes were paid into escrow and then paid by the bank , the firm will also have those taxes listed on it . From your description it sounds like you paid your taxes directly . In that case your canceled checks / bank statements should suffice .
It sounds like you want to lock-up your money in something relatively safe , and relatively hard to touch . You may want to consider a <URL> ( <URL> I found in a quick search ) - from what I see it 's the closest thing to a US <URL> . You wo n't get much back , but if you pick a 5-year term , you ca n't spend it * easily . Other options might be to buy an <URL> , or get into <URL> s - but that will depend on your risk comfort . Also - to add from the comment <URL> left - be sure to pay off any high-interest debts : especially if they 're on a credit card , it will help you later on . * easily . . you can withdraw , but there 're generally penalties
Sure ! Anything that affects the balance of supply and demand could cause rent prices to fall . I 'll betcha rent prices in Wilmington , Ohio collapsed when the biggest employer , DHL , <URL> . An economic depression of any sort would cause people to substitute expensive rentals for cheaper ones , putting downward pressure on rents . It would also cause people to double up or move in with family , decreasing demand for rentals . Anything that makes buying a house cheaper will actually make rents lower , too , because more people will buy houses when houses get cheaper ... those people are moving out of rentals , thus decreasing demand for rentals .
Yes , you would . You owe it to the person you borrowed the shares from . ( <URL> )
I would highly recommend the book " four pillars of investing " by William J Bernstein . This is by far , in my humble opinion , the best text on asset allocation . In short , you will need a variety of equity investments , some bonds , and even some cash ( or money market funds ) . Assuming you are designing your retirement income via a combination of financial vehicles , I would put the least tax-efficient investments ( think fix-income products and other that are being treated the same way by CRA ) in RRSP and others in non-registered accounts ( you are only taxed on 50 % of your capital gains and can use past losses to reduce future tax payables ) . If you are just starting out , putting everything in RRSP is not a bad idea either . You can always transform your portfolio ( i.e. across multiple accounts ) as you have more money to invest . The key here is to make sure you have the right mix of asset classes that will best balance risk and return for you unique situation , and annual re-balance to make the ratio stays true . For example , if you can get to your retirement goals with a mere 3-5 % annualized growth in your portfolio - I would go 70 % bonds , 20 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , and 10 % cash/MMF now and shift it into heavier emphasis on bonds as your get closer to your retirement . If you need 5-9 % growth to retire , you would want to do 60 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , 30 % bonds , and 10 % cash/MMF ( I do n't advise 70 % equity right now , as the market is still volatile , and depends on who you listen to , this mess might go on for another 10 years or so , which is too close to your retirement ) . If you need more than 10 % of growth to get to your retirement , you will have to either re-assess your retirement goal or go all-in on equity - WARNING , just as my poker analogy suggests , you are gambling if you are doing all equity , but it 's the only way you can get > 10 % annualized return over 10-15 years timeframe . If any of the above sounds confusing to you even after you read the book , please do engage a fee-only financial planner ( i.e. not those that gets paid commission when they sell you something ) to help you map it out . Hope this helps ,
If you just want to have high score because you 've heard its useful , then what you need to do is be smart about your credit , and never abuse it . Paying for money you do n't need ( AKA taking a loan just to boost your credit score ) is not being smart . Its wasteful , and unless you need to show creditors in the very near future that you 're worthy of their attention ( i.e. : plan on a mortgage within a year ) , it is unnecessary . It is true that credit cards affect your score at a slower pace , though ( in positive direction , that is ) . One of the first articles I wrote on my blog was <URL> . Read it , if you have a credit card - doing this will help you increase your credit score . If you do n't have a credit card - get one , for free . I wrote another couple of articles on this : <URL> , and why you want it <URL> .
As a full time student , you do not need to pay council tax as long as everyone residing at your address is also a full time student . The course you are studying must be at least 1 year in length , but this does n't mean you have to have been studying on it for a year to qualify for exemption . I believe this is the same for all councils in the UK . Assuming this is the case for you , you will be able to apply for an exemption if you are sent a bill for council tax . <URL> . There is also a helpful page from the National Union of Students <URL> . To add a personal anecdote , I studied at university full time in the UK between 2009 and 2013 . I lived in private accommodation all year round for 3 of those years , worked every summer and never paid a penny in council tax . You should n't have to either .
The general answer is : " it depends on how long you want to live there " . Here is a good calculator to figure it out : <URL> Basically , if you plan to move in a few years , then renting makes more sense . It is a lot easier to move from an apartment when your lease is up versus selling a house , which can be subject to fluctuations in the real-estate market . As an example , during the real estate bubble , a lot of " young professional " types bought condos and town homes instead of renting . Now these people are married with kids , need to move somewhere bigger , but they ca n't get rid of their old place because they ca n't sell it for what they still owe . If these people had rented for a few years , they would be in a better position financially . ( Many people fell for the mantra " If you are renting , you are throwing your money away " , without looking at the long-term implications . ) However , your question is a little unique , because you mentioned renting for the rest of your life , and putting the savings into an investment , which is a cool idea . ( Thinking outside the box , I like it . ) I 'm going to assume you mean " rent the same place for many years " versus " moving around the country every few years " . If you are staying in one place for a long time , I am going to say that buying a house is probably a better option . Here 's why : With a mortgage , at some point you stop sending a check every month . With rent , the payments never stop . At the end of the mortgage , you have an asset that is worth a lot of money ( your house ) . You can sell it and travel the world , give it to your kids , etc. . ( EDIT : With the rent + invest approach , you would have your investment portfolio as a sizable asset . It is open to discussion which one would come out ahead . ) With a mortgage , your payments are a fixed amount ( unless you have an ARM ) . Inflation drives prices up over time , but your mortgage payment stays the same . In fact , inflation helps the homeowner by making the last mortgage payment " cheaper " than the first one . Rent prices tend to keep pace with inflation . Your landlord will probably increase the rent periodically . There are tax advantages to buying a house ( in the US anyway ) . Your mortgage interest is a tax deduction . There are also tax credits for certain home improvements ( e.g. installing an energy efficient A/C ) . You ca n't take advantage of these when you rent . Over the long term , home prices do go up ( population is increasing , but there is a finite amount of land ) . I am not saying the house is a good " investment " , but its value normally wo n't evaporate over 30 years like some other assets would . In terms of inflation-adjusted dollars , your house should maintain similar " value " over the years , as long as you stay on top of the upkeep ( and your neighborhood does n't become run-down ) . With a mortgage , you are paying interest to a bank , which some would consider to be a " black hole " just like rent . However , you can reduce the money you pay in interest by making extra mortgage payments . Making 1-2 extra payments at the start of your mortgage can save a huge sum of money over the life of the loan . So what about investing ? Let 's look at some numbers : Investing in the Dow Jones Industrial Average would give you ~ 9 % per year , with a lot of volatility ( <URL> ) . Mortgage rates are hovering at about 5 % right now . ( <URL> ) Seems like a good idea to invest , instead of taking out a mortgage , right ? Now , add in an inflation rate of ~ 3 % ( <URL> ) Inflation erodes the effective stock market return , but it helps your mortgage payment by effectively making it cost less over time . Next think about taxes . That 9 % stock market return is taxable income ( which eats into your effective return ) , whereas the mortgage interest is a tax deduction . Inflation and taxes pretty much negate higher rate of return for the stock investment . Additionally , you have the inflationary impacts of a rent payment that increases over time . So , based on the above , I say that buying a house is the way to go ( as long as you plan to live in the same place for several years ) . However , if you could find a better investment than the Dow , or if mortgage interest rates change drastically , things could tip in another direction . Addendum : CrimsonX brought up a good point about the costs of owning a house ( upkeep and property taxes ) , which I did n't mention above . However , I do n't think they change my answer . If you rent , you are still paying those costs . They are just hidden from you . Your landlord pays the contractor or the tax man , and then you pay the landlord as part of your rent .
My original plan was to wait for the next economic downturn and invest in index funds . These funds have historically yielded 6-7 % annually when entered at any given time , but maybe around 8-9 % annually when entered during a recession . These numbers have been adjusted for inflation . Questions or comments on this strategy ? Educate yourself as index funds are merely a strategy that could be applied to various asset classes such as US Large-cap value stocks , Emerging Market stocks , Real Estate Investment Trusts , US Health Care stocks , Short-term bonds , and many other possibilities . Could you be more specific about which funds you meant as there is some great work by Fama and French on the returns of various asset classes over time . What about a Roth IRA ? Mutual fund ? Roth IRA is a type of account and not an investment in itself , so while I think it is a good idea to have Roth IRA , I would highly advise researching the ins and outs of this before assuming you can invest in one . You do realize that index funds are just a special type of mutual fund , right ? It is also worth noting that there are a few kinds of mutual funds : Open-end , exchange-traded and closed-end . Which kind did you mean ? What should I do with my money until the market hits another recession ? Economies have recessions , markets have ups and downs . I 'd highly consider forming a real strategy rather than think , " Oh let 's toss it into an index fund until I need the money , " as that seems like a recipe for disaster . Figure out what long-term financial goals do you have in mind , how OK are you with risk as if the market goes down for more than a few years straight , are you OK with seeing those savings be cut in half or worse ?
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
Your best approach is to assess rent levels in your local area for offices of a similar size . You need to take into account all the usuals - amenities , parking , etc , just as if your home-office was provided by a third-party . Get your $ / sq ft and work out the monthly amount . With this figure , you need to then work out what % of it you can charge . If the space is used exclusively for the business , charge 100 % . If it 's used about half the time , charge 50 % , etc. . I would strongly advise you to do two things - 1 . make sure your accountant and your attorney help you get this squared away . 2 . document everything about how you arrived at the cost . Nothing fancy , but dates , realtors , addresses , $ / sq foot . A simple table will do . By doing these two things , if the IRS should come around to chat , you should be covered .
One rule of thumb is that housing should be no more than 1/3 of gross income . But , there 's always a reasonable excuse to adjust this number . Move to a city with great transportation , or a company van , etc , eliminating the need for a car , and that number can go up . In your case , without a compelling reason to go what seems 50 % of gross , your number is way too high . For a six month stint , if this helps your career or is the only work available , it may be the right thing to do . Long term , it 's awful . To be fair , long term , in this flat , my advice would be to get a roommate . Even 500/mo would fix your numbers .
end question
start question
What is the difference between pre-tax and post-tax paycheck deductions ?
Most people elect to have these deducted pre-tax because it reduces your taxable income . That mean that it is pulled from your income before social security , medicare , state and federal taxes are calculated . The reduction of pre-tax income can also make other deductions possible if it keeps your annual taxable income low enough , this really only impacts a few people , and would be considered a bonus benefit . Bottom line for most people pre-tax payments results in a higher take home pay . The only reason I could find to make your health insurance premiums post-tax would be because that keeps your wages high when calculating monthly income for social security benefits . This would only impact people who were either near retirement , or were close to not making enough money in a quarter to potentially not get credit for the quarter . One other distinction was that if the premiums were made pre-tax you can only change your insurance if you had a life event . Post-tax premiums did allow you to make insurance changes without needing a life event . Again this would only impact a small number of people .
In most companies , a fund and a portfolio mean the same thing ; therefore a fund manager and portfolio manager are the same role . The difference between a portfolio manager and a trader ( where exists ) is as follows : Portfolio manager 's job is to decide on the best contents ( holdings ) in the portfolio that would accomplish the portfolio 's stated objective within stated constraints ( e.g. make the best possible return while keeping the risk under a specified level ) . Trader 's job at a buy-side institution is to basically execute the trades necessary to change the portfolio holdings from their current state to whatever state portfolio managers decided to achieve . As a matter of fact , at some smaller buy-side firms ( especially fixed income ) , there ARE no separate trader positions , and portfolio managers do both jobs . A trader 's job is to execute the required trades so that the transaction costs are minimized and the PnL is maximized by buying as low as possible and selling as high as possible ( e.g. for a simple example dumping a large chunk of a certain stock all at once would depress the stock price so you would make less money as your average sell price goes down ) . Trader 's job at a sell-side institution is more involved , as the trader is also responsible for making money for the firm via his trades , e.g. he may trade securities specifically for the purpose of making the money off the trade as opposed to the purpose of achieving desired portfolio composition .
You did the math correctly . You do n't lose the entire deduction for the sake of the FSA . But it does come off the top , so as you calculated , you still have $ 5000 to take as an itemized deduction .
The traditional role of a stockbroker is to arrange for the buying and selling of stock by finding buyers and sellers at an agreed upon price . The broker does not purchase the stock for himself but merely arranges for the stock to be traded . A trader is one who purchases stock with the hope of selling it for a gain . The trader will use a broker to help with the purchase and sale of a stock .
As far as I can recall , savings and chequing accounts exist due to regulations on the banking industry that put were into effect after the depression to prevent a " run " on the bank . A chequing account is a " demand " account , meaning you can go and demand your money , and they have to pay immediately , by means of a withdrawal or a cheque . Banks used to get out of hand and loan out pretty much all the money they had on deposit , and of course those people with loans just put the money they borrowed into another chequing account and the bank loaned that out to someone else . The money that people believed they had access to multiplied indefinitely . However , when everyone goes to take that money out at the same time , you have a run on the bank . Therefore , government regulations stipulate a % that the bank must have on-hand . The typical number is 5 % . That effectively limits the money multiplier to 19 times . Savings accounts get around this restriction by putting limits on how much and how quickly you can withdraw the amounts . They pay you more interest because the money in a savings account is worth more to them , because it 's not subject to those restrictions . Some chequing accounts pay interest , but you have to maintain a minimum balance . Some savings accounts allow you to write cheques , but I assume the withdrawal limitations probably still apply . There 's also something to do with deposit insurance ( as in , the chequing accounts are covered by government deposit insurance , but savings accounts are not ) . I 'm not 100 % certain of that though .
The tax tables are created from the tax rates . Its not as simple as multiple taxable income by the rate for your tax bracket , due to the way tax brackets work . The rate for each tax bracket only applies for certain income ranges . For example , the first $ 8,375 are taxed at 10 % , $ 8,375 - $ 34k at 15 % , $ 34k - $ 82,400 at 25 % , etc. . So just because you are in the 25 % tax bracket does n't mean that you are paying 25 % on your entire income . If you have 82,400 in taxable income , and assuming the singe rate , your tax is 16,788 for an effective tax rate of 20 % of taxable income . Your effective tax rate is actually less than that if you base the calculation on your adjusted gross income . Your <URL> is simply your total taxes divided by your total income . The tax rate and the tax table are based on your taxable income , which is your gross income minus any deductions and credits .
Amortizing loans pay off some of the value of the loan ( otherwise known as principal ) with each payment , whereas non-amortizing loans only pay the interest , so the full value of the loan is still owed at the end of the loan . This means that with an amortizing loan you progressively pay off the loan value bit by bit as time goes on .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
The IRS publishes an exhaustive set of explicit lookup tables in <URL> Determine the payroll period-weekly , biweekly , monthly , etc. . For bonuses and exceptional payments there several options available . Determine your exemption , a function of the allowances you reported on W-4 and payroll period ( and technically , citizenship status ) . Take the gross amount in the check . Subtract the exemption . Cross reference the net amount in the lookup table for the payroll period . That 's the amount withheld .
I would say to only bother keeping the ones you know you 'll use for itemized deductions . This includes any unreimbursed business expenses and vehicle licensing fees . There are a lot of other itemized tax deductions possible , but those are two common ones . Also , keep track of your business mileage ( mileage before and after the trip , and commuting does n't count as " business mileage " ) . You may also want to keep receipts of all out-of-state purchases if your state is one of those that tries to collect state tax on out-of-state purchases . Ensure your supported charities are 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) , and they 'll give you a receipt at the end of the year . Do n't bother keeping fast food or gas receipts ( unless they 're business expenses ) .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
On line 3 of the QDCGT worksheet , as you say , you enter the smaller of your long-term gains and total gains . Assuming you did not have a loss in either category , your long-term gains will be less than both long - and short-term combined , so you will enter long-term gains here . On line 7 of this worksheet , you effectively subtract your long-term gains from your taxable income , leaving your short-term gains lumped with the rest of your ordinary income on Line 7 . Most of the worksheet then computes your tax on the long-term gains , but on Line 24 you compute the tax on Line 7 , which , as mentioned , includes your short-term gains . Thus , this worksheet lumps your short-term gains with the rest of your income . Your short-term gains do not get the preferential tax treatment which is encoded in line 8-23 of the QDCGT worksheet . It is not easy to see this because the logic of those lines on the worksheet is rather opaque . The rough summary is that , since your long-term gains alone are always smaller than your total income ( including short-term gains ) , the various lines which tell you to enter " the smaller of X or Y " result in you entering your long-term gains ( or portions of them falling into various brackets ) , on which the preferential tax is then computed . So when you went through that worksheet , you were treating the two separately , you just did n't realize it . The amounts on Lines 20 and 23 are your capital gains taxes , and whatever amount you had on Line 11 was taxed at 0 % ( as mentioned on the worksheet ) . If you had had no long-term gains , all of your income would have remained on Line 7 and been subject to ordinary-income rates as computed at Line 24 . If you use the tax table on your total taxable income , you should get a higher number than you wind up with on the final line of the QDCGT worksheet .
I think this is explained fairly clearly by the <URL> on the topic . In particular , yes there is an immediate tax benefit in the year that you make the investment , in that it reduces your income tax bill by 50 % of your investment up to # 100,000 ( i.e. a maximum reduction of # 50,000 ) . This reduction is capped at the actual income tax paid , so you ca n't directly get money back if the theoretical relief would exceed that amount . You can also " carry back " some of an investment one tax year so you could potentially get a refund on your 2012-2013 tax bill by investing now ( before April 5th 2014 when 2013-2014 ends ) - similarly you could divide up an investment between the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 tax years if you invest after April 6th 2014 . Note that you need to hold onto the shares for at least three years or the relief is withdrawn ( which presumably means HMRC will demand the tax be repaid again ) . You will also be exempt from capital gains tax on the shares if you hold them for the three years . Finally there are some provisions for getting relief from capital gains tax on assets you already hold and sell if you then reinvest the money in SEIS shares .
The difference between dividend and growth in mutual funds has to do with the types of stocks the mutual fund invests in . Typically a company in the early stages are considered growth investments . In this phase the company needs to keep most of its profits to reinvest in the business . Typically once a company gets a significant size the company 's growth prospects are not as good so the company pays some of its profits in the form of a dividend to the shareholders . As far as which is the best buy is totally a personal choice . There will be times when one is better then the other . Most likely you will want to " diversify " and invest in both types .
George 's answer is excellent . To expand a bit on " which is better " , just based on my experience with a handful of regional/national banks and a couple different credit unions : Many credit unions are small , local banks . This can be great if you want a personal relationship with CU employees -- you may be able to get flexibility when applying for a loan , for example . The downside is they may not have hours that are as convenient , the online banking may be missing features ( or just plain missing ) , etc -- they just do n't have as much in terms of resources as large national banks . They may not belong to a large ATM network . If you use your ATM frequently you 'll pay more in fees at the terminal . They may not have a " call center " , staffed 24x7 , by people " far away " . You decide whether this is good or bad . Larger credit unions have more resources to cancel some or all of those downsides , but then they have more fees . Large national banks have branches all over , ATMs everywhere , are open at the supermarket on weekends and evenings , and have really slick online banking . You pay for this ( sometimes excessively , it seems ) in fees . When you have to talk to someone , you may be lucky enough to have a personal relationship with someone at your local branch , but you are just as likely to get a drone at a call center who is powerless to actually fix anything for you . Everything I said above for small credit unions goes for small , local banks . What 's " better " or " worse " depends on which of those things above are more important to you .
What if XOM has 400B in revenue and 40B in profit . Does a $ 360 billion difference sound synonymous to you ? Revenue can most easily be thought of as the top line of an income statement or profit and loss statement . Revenue is the total amount of income generated by the sale of goods or services related to the company 's primary operations . Profit , conversely , is the infamous bottom line . This is called net profit , because it is the amount of income that remains after accounting for all expenses , debts , additional income streams and operating costs .
Your premise is false . When you withdraw money from a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , there is no tax due . Yes , you can read that again : <URL> . They are labeled " tax free " for a good reason ! After-tax money is deposited , and then from that point forward , no tax , no tax , no tax . :-) On a " normal " , non-registered investment or savings account with no special treatment , your investment earnings will be taxed whenever gains are realized or income received ( e.g. dividends or interest ) . You will necessarily have less in a normal non-registered investment or savings account compared to a TFSA , as long as the rate of return was positive , i.e. growing . Perhaps you were thinking not of comparing a regular investment account to a TFSA , but rather to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan ( RRSP ) ? In the case of an RRSP , there is an up-front tax deduction , then earnings grow tax-deferred , and then on withdrawal , income tax is paid at regular rates . Even then , with RRSPs , if your marginal tax rate remains the same over time ( not necessarily a reasonable assumption , but let 's go with it ) then you should still realize more after-tax income from your RRSP than from a normal non-registered investment or savings account . ( Though , there 's likely an exception case when most income came as qualified dividends and the capital itself has n't appreciated . )
Withdrawals from 401k and ( non-Roth ) IRA accounts , assuming all contributions were pre-tax as is probably typical , are taxed as ordinary income . This includes money from all sources : contributions , interest , capital gains , etc. . This means that Treasury bonds have no tax advantage over any other investment when they are held within a 401k or IRA . Since Treasury bonds pay lower interest rates than other bonds and in these accounts are taxed the same way , they are usually considered inappropriate for 401k 's and IRA ( for other than " safety " concerns ) .
When you adjust your investments the following will happen : Initial condition : $ 600 pre-tax divided into whatever options your 401K allows ( company stock , small company , bonds , international , fixed ... ) $ 600 Company match ( some companies allow you to specify a different investment split for your company match ) . This is considered pre-tax . You will pay taxes when you withdraw it . Your contribution of $ 600 pre-tax reduced your apparent income by $ 600 a month which if you are in the 25 % tax bracket could have saved you $ 150 a month in federal taxes * Modified condition : $ 500 pre-tax divided into whatever options your 401K allows ( company stock , small company , bonds , international , fixed ... ) $ 100 post-tax divided into whatever options your 401K allows ( company stock , small company , bonds , international , fixed ... ) $ 600 Company match ( some companies allow you to specify a different investment split for your company match ) . This is still all considered pre-tax . You will pay taxes when you withdraw it . Your contribution of $ 500 pre-tax reduced your apparent income by $ 500 a month which if you are in the 25 % tax bracket could have saved you $ 125 a month in federal taxes * This means that after this change you will note that the amount of federal tax you pay each month via withholding will go up . You are now contributing less pre-tax , so your taxable income has increased . If you make no other changes , then in April you will either have increased your refund by 6 months x the additional $ 25 a month , or decreased the amount you owe by the same amount . There is no change in the total 401K balance at the end of the year , other than accounting for how much is held pre-tax vs. Roth post-tax . Keep in mind that employer contributions must be pre-tax . The company could never guess what your tax situation is . They withhold money for taxes based on the form you fill out , but they have no idea of your family 's tax situation . If you fail to have enough withheld , you pay the penalty -- not the company . * The tax savings are complex because it depends on marital status , your other pre-tax amounts for medical , and how much income your spouse makes , plus your other income and deductions .
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
end question
start question
With interest rates beginning to ascend , is it better to lock in a mortgage at fixed rate or opt for variable rate ?
As always , it depends . Variable rates , over the long haul are almost always lower ; and result in an overall faster repayment . In any specific timespan , however , it is generally possible to pick a point where a smart lock-in would have been a better decision , but these points are only apparent in retrospect . Given the current rate climate , where there seems to be a general consensus that rates will rise , a lock-in would seem prudent . But that will only really be proven several years from now . My tip on this , like most other investing advise , is " do what you need to do so that you can sleep at night " . If you want or need some sense of security , then by all means , lock in . If you want the absolute lowest rate , and have some room to maneuver in your finances , you might be willing to take the risk .
The difference is that APY takes into account the effects of compounding interest while APR does not . The difference only matters when more than one interest payment is made per year , which is the case most of the time . Here is an excellent article on the differences : <URL> Here is the formula to convert a stated interest rate to APY :
There are several areas that need to be considered . Taxes : If you settle late in the year you might not have enough deductions for interest and taxes to itemize this year . If you do n't normally itemize then delaying charitable contributions until early the next year will allow you to maximize the benefits . Moving . If the new house is in other state you can avoid having to file in two states if the switch takes place after mid-December and before mid-January . They ignore these small windows of time when doing partial year returns . General Advice Frequently the government has programs that change based on the date . Many times it takes place at the end of the year , but not always . The recent federal first time buyer programs had mid-year dates . In some states their first time buyer programs might have dates in sync with their fiscal year . Do n't forget to look at it from the view of the seller . If they are trying a short sale , completing it before the end of the year will be very important to them .
There 's nothing to rebalance , the index fund rebalances itself to continue matching the index . However , you need to understand that such an investment is not diversified and you only invest in a very specific market , and very specific stocks on that market . S&amp;P 500 is large ( 500 different companies , most of the time ) , but still not as broadly diversified as your retirement investment portfolio should be . You should talk to a financial adviser ( CFP for example ) , many companies provide access to these for 401k plan participants . But in any case , I 'd suggest considering " target date " funds - funds that are investing based on your expected retirement year , and become more conservative as you get closer to that year .
Part 1 Quite a few [ or rather most ] countries allow USD account . So there is no conversion . Just to illustrare ; In India its allowed to have a USD account . The funds can be transfered as USD and withdrawn as USD , the interest is in USD . There no conversion at any point in time . Typically the rates for CD on USD account was Central Bank regulated rate of 5 % , recently this was deregulated , and some banks offer around 7 % interest . Why is the rate high on USD in India ? - There is a trade deficit which means India gets less USD and has to pay More USD to buy stuff [ Oil and other essential items ] . - The balance is typically borrowed say from IMF or other countries etc. - Allowing Banks to offer high interest rate is one way to attract more USD into the country in short term . [ because somepoint in time they may take back the USD out of India ] So why is n't everyone jumping and making USD investiments in India ? - The Non-Residents who eventually plan to come back have invested in USD in India . - There is a risk of regulation changes , ie if the Central Bank / Country comes up pressure for Forex Reserves , they may make it difficut to take back the USD . IE they may impose charges / taxes or force conversion on such accounts . - The KYC norms make it difficult for Indian Bank to attract US citizens [ except Non Resident Indians ] - Certain countries would have explicit regulations to prevent Other Nationals from investing in such products as they may lead to volatility [ ie all of them suddenly pull out the funds ] - There would be no insurance to foreign nationals . Part 2 The FDIC insurance is not the reason for lower rates . Most countires have similar insurance for Bank deposits for account holdes . The reason for lower interst rate is all the Goverments [ China etc ] park the excess funds in US Treasuries because ; 1 . It is safe 2 . It is required for any international purchase 3 . It is very liquid . Now if the US Fed started giving higher interest rates to tresaury bonds say 5 % , it essentially paying more to other countries ... so its keeping the interest rates low even at 1 % there are enough people [ institutions / governemnts ] who would keep the money with US Treasury . So the US Treasury has to make some revenue from the funds kept at it ... it lends at lower interest rates to Bank ... who in turn lend it to borrowers [ both corporate and retail ] . Now if they can borrow cheaply from Fed , why would they pay more to Individual Retail on CD ? , they will pay less ; because the lending rates are low as well . Part 3 Check out the regulations
Aganju 's response above is spot-on . The rationale for the range of APY is ' banking compliance regulations . ' Our regulators require for the disclosure of what APY you could earn . Our Ultimate Account has tiered interest rates so if your balance was $ 5,000 all month , you could earn 5.00 % . But if your balance was $ 10,000 then the corresponding APY would be 2.54 % . Obviously there are countless iterations you could insert here for every balance possibility but the disclosure copy you see on our website is what our compliance folks felt best addressed the required deposit product advertising regulations . I realize the explanation above may not have cleared up how the numbers are what they are but it should explain why you see a range of APY figures quoted . Sincerely , Bill Clancy , Northpointe Bank
The prime rate is the interest rate banks use amongst themselves to lend money to each other only . It is used as the basis ( sometimes ) for what interest rate banks charge you . The prime rate is based loosely on the Fed rate . There is a committee that meets regularly to set this and other industry interest rates . <URL> I am not 100 % positive the following is totally accurate The banks keep our deposits and pay us interest for doing so . They are paying us interest because they take yours , mine and everybody elses deposits as a large lump sum and invest that money . Sometimes as business loans , sometimes as mortgages and sometimes as credit card . The banks have a book of business that will be EXACTLY how much credit they have extended to everybody . But they do not keep that amount of cash in the vaults , only some smaller percentage of that large amount . When I use my credit card and they need to transfer money to amazon.com , if they do n't happen to have enough cash that day , they will just borrow from another bank that does , and the interest rate they pay to do so is the prime rate . Since they are paying interest on the money they borrow to pay the debt I charged because they told me my credit was worth so much ( ... ??? ... ) they charge me a little bit more than that . Hence your credit card or mortgage 's APR being based on the prime rate . I THINK that is what they do If I am wrong leave a comment and I will update , or the mods can .
There is no downside if you do n't carry a balance . Just pay it off every month and the interest rate is irrelevant . With interest rates on credit cards , the bank can decide to up your rate at any time . I have a card that I got with a 9.99 % interest rate that was fixed . After about a year it was upped . Now 5 years later the interest rate is like 18.99 % . Since I do n't carry a balance it has no affect on me .
Assuming neither one charges a fee and you are talking about automated non-cash , non-check transactions : Withdrawal is slightly better if you are 100 % sure you have the money ( or better yet , twice the money ) to cover it . It puts more incentive on the bank that is responsible for the act to do it correctly , because they will then be the bank holding the money . It also creates an added check because there is no possibility of having an error in transfer information result in sending your money to the wrong account . ( This is unlikely anyway , but not impossible depending on the bank and interface ) . Deposit may be slightly better if you are not , or if you are concerned about technical foul-ups at the bank . Depending on the bank , a deposit with insufficient funds may be cancelled rather than going through and then being cancelled , which could result in various banking fees ( returned item fees , overdraft fees , etc. . . ) . If there is a technical foul-up during a withdrawal , you run the risk of having banks get confused -- I know of a case where it took a major bank months to fix a withdrawal transaction that was denied the second time when they activated it twice , but the account balance mistakenly showed an extra thousand dollars for the duration .
Yes . I have personally signed such contracts ( fixed budget software development ) and lost money every single time . And yes , it is quite possible for you to get paid under minimum wage if you take too long . <URL> is the primary culprit for these kinds of contracts , so make sure you put together iron-clad explanations of what is and is not covered by the contract ( and pad the asking price for good measure ) .
This is just a guess but I would imagine that it has to do with risk . The deposits in Banks are usually as safe as government bonds ( broad oversimplification ) as : Usually bank deposits are insured by local equivalent of FDIC . I 'm not sure about local regulation but it means that they are backed partially by the government - at least this is the case in US and EU . If government is close to default it can and do freeze the Bank assets . For example see Cyprus bank tax in 2013 . The US government is considered the most trustworthy - even in unlikely event of being close to default it would be rescued by FED ( so it can just print the money ) . So the banks at the same time have very low competition regarding government bonds and the investments they can do have relatively low ROI so they can not offer much more competitive rates . On the other hand Ukrainian bonds have current rating Caa3/CCC - / CCC - i.e. the Goverment is judged to be likely to default ( as you pointed out there is war going on ) and in result the government bonds are considered highly speculative . Therefore to attract foreign investors they need to have high interest rating . Similarly the CDs at the banks can be considered at the risk of being lost so to prevent flight of capital overseas ( or people keeping USD in cash form at home ) they need to offer rates that reflect the risk .
You have a loan . You can probably assume you 're going to have to repay that loan , every dollar . And every dollar that 's outstanding on that loan costs you interest . So assuming you 're not hit by any pre-payment penalty , any dollar that you pay down on your house right now saves you a compounded R % a year , where R is your mortgage rate . It does n't really matter whether you 're planning to sell it in a few years or not . If you pay $ N , you 'll save the interest + $ N taken from the sale price and sent to the bank when you sell the house and move ( though you might get a tax deduction on the interest ) . If you have a better place to park your money and earn a decent rate of return , it would be worth it to do that instead of paying down the mortgage . If you had another loan with higher interest rates , that 's probably a better loan to pay off . If you can spend some of all of it on something that 's actually genuinely worth R % of its purchase price a year ( plus whatever the wear and tear takes away from its value , if anything ) then spend it on that instead ; that 'd be a better investment . ( For instance , investments in the stock market may offer better returns . However , that 's risky ! Observe that you ca n't lose money paying down your mortgage , and that Safety is usually relatively expensive these days , so it 's not a bad deal . But if you 're talking about using it for long-term retirement savings that are tax-advantaged to boot , that 's another matter . ) If you already have ample emergency funds and were just planning on putting the money into a savings account to rot at ~ 1.35 % taxable interest , it 's definitely worth it to pay down your balance now , unless you 're about to sell ( so the savings are slight ) and it 's a real inconvenience .
A good faith estimate ( GFE ) is just that - an estimate . The Department of Urban Development made a GFE a requirement by law for loan applications to enable the buyer to compare among lenders . Furthermore , a GFE is a legally binding document with zero tolerance for some fees like origination charges and lender fees . This means that any change in these fees must be covered by the lender . Some other fees , like title insurance policies , have a 10 % tolerance , so they can increase by up to 10 % , but if they increase more than that , then the lender is liable for the surplus . However , rates are time sensitive . This means that the rate you are quoted on the GFE , albeit legally binding , may last for only a second or a very short period of time . Although many quoted rates end up being accurate , there is no legal guarantee to do so . So I highly suggest you get an official lock-in document to get the agreement on paper . Even if your lender has good intentions and believes the extra rate lock is unnecessary , get it anyways . A GFE 's rate quote is not final , and you can only help yourself by getting a letter of commitment that guarantees your rate .
So I want to sell my 100 shares of AAPL to him at a price of 10 or even 1 US Dollar . Is that legal/allowed ? Of course . It 's your stocks - do with it what you want . if the two persons are not served by a same broker . You 'll have to talk to your broker about the technicalities of the transaction . if the person who sell are US citizen and the person who buy are not , and and vice-versa Since you asked specifically about US citizenship , I 'll assume you 're in the US or the transaction is taking place in the US . Citizenship has nothing to do with it ( except may be for economic sanctions against Russians or Iranians that may come into play ) . What is important is the tax residency status . Such a transfer is essentially a gift , and if you 're a US tax resident ( which does n't correlate to your immigration status necessarily ) - you 'll have to deal with the <URL> consequences on the discount value . For example - you have 100 shares of AAPL which you sold to your friend for $ 1 each when the fair market value ( FMV ) was $ 501 . So essentially , the friend got $ 50,100 value for $ 100 . I.e. : $ 50K gift . Since this amount is above the annual $ 14K exemption - you 'll have to deal with the gift tax and file gift tax return . There are also consequences for the capital gains tax for both you and your friend . I suggest you talk to a licensed tax adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your State ) about the specifics given your circumstances . If you ( or the recipient ) are also a foreign citizen/tax resident - then that country 's laws also may affect your situation .
According to Wikipedia , <URL> mature in 1 year or less to a fixed face value : Treasury bills ( or T-Bills ) mature in one year or less . Regular weekly T-Bills are commonly issued with maturity dates of 28 days ( or 4 weeks , about a month ) , 91 days ( or 13 weeks , about 3 months ) , 182 days ( or 26 weeks , about 6 months ) , and 364 days ( or 52 weeks , about 1 year ) . Treasury bills are sold by single-price auctions held weekly . The T-bills ( as Wikipedia says , like <URL> ) are actually sold at a discount to their face value and mature to their face value . They do not return any interest before the date of maturity . Because the amount earned is fixed at purchase , " return " is a more accurate term than " rate " when referring to a specific T-bill . The " rate " is the difference between this return and the discount value you purchased it at . So , yes , your rate of return is guaranteed . T-notes ( 1-10 year ) and T-bonds ( 20-30 year ) also have an interest rate guaranteed , but have <URL> ( usually every 6 months ) , paying out a fixed amount of interest on the principal . ( See more info on the <URL> . ) Because those bonds are not compounding the interest it pays out , but instead paying out every 6 months , you 'd have to purchase new securities to create a compound return , changing your rate of return over time slightly as the rates for new treasury securities changes .
TFSA is a misnomer . It is not a Savings Account , but a registered Savings Plan . For example , My TFSA is in mutual funds , so there is no interest as such . I make my earnings through share value growth , and dividends . If you want a guaranteed return , then you put it in GICs . You can put TFSA funds in a savings account ( which is essentially keeping it in cash ) , in which case the rate would fluctuate just like your regular savings account . However , I believe the best strategy is RRSPs should be stable and secure , and TFSA 's should be higher risk/higher reward , giving you the tax free benefit on the bulk of your earnings .
It 's worthwhile to try and find a better minimum down-payment . When I bought my home , I got an FHA loan , which drastically reduced the minimum down-payment required ( I think the minimum is 3 % under FHA ) . Be aware that any down-payment percentage under 20 % means that you 'll have to pay for private mortgage insurance ( PMI ) as part of your monthly mortgage . Here 's <URL> of it . Part of the challenge you 're experiencing may be that banks are only now exercising the due diligence with borrowers for mortgages that they should have been all along . I hope you 're successful in finding the right payment . Getting a mortgage to reduce your spending on housing relative to rent is a wise move . In addition to fixing your monthly costs at a consistent level ( unlike rent , which can rise for reasons you do n't control ) , the mortgage interest deduction makes for a rather helpful tax benefit .
Some landlords do this and others do n't . You could always try pushing back but do n't necessarily expect to get anywhere ; if I were you I would focus on removing the 3 % collar because the RPI and CPI are both below that - at the moment CPI is 0.6 % and RPI is 1.9 % . There are some interesting comments from landlords <URL> including the point that repairs and replacements get more expensive year-on-year . But fundamentally , as long as the landlord is following <URL> then they 're not doing anything illegal or unreasonable .
The total outlay in 1 . is $ 15552 and in 2 . is $ 15560 , so if you had the $ 4000 ( and ignoring forgone interest which is very low at the moment ) , then you 'd only need $ 8 of savings from the tax deduction for it to be worthwhile - I suspect they set it up so that the numbers would be the same modulo rounding errors . From your stats you probably do n't have the $ 4000 up front , so you 'd have to borrow it . Let 's guess it might mean a 25 % interest rate given your poor credit situation , and that you 'd pay most of it back in the last 2 of the 12 months , so it 'd cost you about $ 1000 . I guess your tax bracket may mean that the savings from the tax deduction still make that worthwhile , but I 'm not familiar enough with US tax to be sure .
If this is her primary residence and the mortgage is secured by it - then yes , she can deduct the mortgage interest . The caveat : she has to either be on the title , or on the mortgage . Source : <URL> . IRC Section 163 deals with all the interest deductions and as such is quite hard to read and follow . In order to understand how to follow the statute , the Treasury issues regulations . Regulation <URL> is dealing with the IRC section 163 . This is what the regulation 1.163-1 ( B ) has to tell us : ( b ) Interest paid by the taxpayer on a mortgage upon real estate of which he is the legal or equitable owner , even though the taxpayer is not directly liable upon the bond or note secured by such mortgage , may be deducted as interest on his indebtedness . Thus , the answer to your question , as user662852 suggested in the comment , depends on whether she 's on the title ( or otherwise has ownership interest , if for example it is purchased with community funds in a community property state - check with a local lawyer . ) . Keep in mind that MFS rules affect what and how much deductions you can take , so you need to check carefully whether MFS is suitable for you .
end question
start question
Is it wise to sell company stock to pay down a mortgage ?
If by " Company Stock " you mean " stock in the company I work for " then absolutely sell your stock . It is too big a risk to have your investments tied into the same company that is also providing your salary . If you mean stock as in general investments , I like to look at it this way . If you have $ 25,000 stock and a $ 100,000 mortgage you ask this question : If I had a $ 75,000 mortgage would I borrow an additional $ 25,000 against my house to invest in the stock market ? If the answer is yes , then you are taking a risk consistent with your tolerance for risk . If you answer no , then your tolerance for risk says you 'd be happier paying down your mortgage .
When dealing with investments ( including stocks ) , CAGR is how you can describe the average growth of something over a period of time . The acronym stands for Compound Annual Growth Rate . For instance : Let 's say that I buy $ 10,000 worth of stock . After one year , it 's worth $ 9,000 ( a 10 % decrease ) After two years , it 's worth $ 12,000 ( a 33 % increase ) If I wanted to brag to my friends , I 'd say " I made 33 % on my stock from last year ! " Anyone who has known me a bit longer would probably be more interested in what kind of return ( percentage-wise ) I had made in total since I initially purchased the stock ( CAGR ) . This is calculated as follows : where and so for our example , You can double-check this by using that value each year and working forward Initial stock purchase of $ 10,000 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 955 ) = $ 10,955 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 1046 ) = $ 12,001 On a side note , it is interesting that the " simple " calculation most people would make for the above example goes like this : I have $ 12,000 now . I started with $ 10,000 . That is $ 2,000 profit , which is 20 % of $ 10,000 over 2 years . I made 10 % profit each year . Sticking with the CAGR formula prevents such mistakes from happening .
Much of the interest on a loan comes in the first years of a mortgage , so the sooner you can pay that off , the better . But let 's see what the numbers say . If you have a loan at 4 % , principal of $ 100,000 , a term of 30 years , then this gives monthly payments of $ 477.42 ( using the <URL> ) . If you sell the house after precisely 5 years worth of payments , then you have made $ 28,644.92 in payments , you still owe $ 90,924.93 . Suppose you sell the house for $ 100,000 . That means you will be in the hole for : $ 100,000 - $ 90,924.93 - $ 28,644.92 = - $ 19,569.85 Now , suppose you pay an extra $ 50 per month over the five years . The same calculation becomes : $ 100,000 - $ 87,659.98 - $ 31,644.92 = - $ 19,304.90 So in this scenario , which is a little simplistic , you are $ 264.95 better off . The question you have to ask is whether you could have done better investing the $ 3,000 in extra payments somewhere else . The CAGR in doing this is 1.7 % , so you might be better off putting the money away . Running the same numbers for a 6 % mortgage the CAGR you have is about 2.7 % . Edit I 've added a <URL> ( read-only ) that you can download and play with . Feel free to correct anything you find amiss ! Edit 2 OK , so I 've had a look at what <URL> is saying in the comments below , and now I agree : The CAGR should be 4 % . Where I want wrong was to assume that the $ 50 per month payments over the five years are worth $ 50 * 5 * 12 = $ 3000 . This neglects the " time value of money " -- having small amounts of money periodically , rather than all of it in a lump sum . Including this makes the " effective " value of the monthly $ 50 payments $ 2714.95 written as in Excel or Google Docs . <URL> Note that it still does n't quite come to 4 % , but I guess it 's a minor error in the sheet . NB : I know , I 'm leaving out mortgage interest tax relief , costs for selling etc. etc. .
A trailing stop will sell X shares at some percentage below the current market price . Putting in this order with a 10 % trailing stop when the stock price is $ 50 will sell the stock when it hits $ 45 . It 's a market order at that point ( see below ) . A stop order will sell the stock when it reaches a certain price . The stop order becomes a market order when the magic price is hit . This means that you may not sell it at or below your price when the order is executed . But the stock will sell faster because the trader must execute . A stop limit order is the same as a stop order , except the stock wo n't be sold if it ca n't be gotten for the price . As a result , the sell may not be executed . More information <URL> .
If the bulk of the worth is in the metal , it matters little which local buyer you use . The price of the metal is based on the weight . So take it to a couple of places and get consensus on what it weighs . Then you are negotiating on the percent of the full worth they will give you . They have to give you less then full value so they make a profit . Try different types of places : jewelers who make their own jewelery , jewelers who do n't make their own jewelery , pawn shops , and popup " we buy gold " places . Because you are trying to find the best price for an item that has no stable price point , once you find a person to sell to you are just waiting for the moment you believe the gold has it a local high . If you wait too long you may have to resurvey the buyers to see if the situation has changed . I would not suggest ones where you have to mail in the item to get it appraised : there are risks in shipping , and the time lag involved will tend to lock you in to completing the transaction , even if you are not 100 % comfortable with the price .
The deadline for submitting a claim was September 4th , 2016 - therefore you are no longer eligible . That being said , you probably did not miss much . <URL> you can expect to be paid about 14 cents per share , on claims exceeding $ 10 ( below $ 10 you do n't get paid ) . Read the settlement notice for more info .
If you have any non-mortgage debt -- e.g. a credit card , a line of credit , a student loan , or a car loan -- then I would pay that down first . The interest being paid on that kind of borrowed money likely exceeds what you could expect to earn in reasonable investments . If you do n't have any non-mortgage debt , and your mortgage is large ( e.g. thinking about it keeps you up at night , sometimes :-) then go for the the extra mortgage payment . Also go for the mortgage if you 're paying at a relatively high interest rate compared to what you could expect from investments . If your mortgage is small ( e.g. it 's going to be paid off in a few years ) and at a relatively low interest rate , then I would choose the RRSP or TFSA . Unless you 're in the top income tax bracket , I would favor the TFSA over RRSP -- TFSAs were only introduced this year and any balance there already is likely tiny compared to the RRSP . For retirement , I 'm aiming to have equal amounts of RRSP and TFSA money . One option you have n't mentioned is an RESP . If you have children under the age of 18 , your bonus could also be used to make next year 's RESP contribution and qualify for the 20 % matching Canada Education Savings Grant ( CESG ) from the government .
As I understand it ( please correct me if i 'm wrong , i 've looked at this before and i 've been a sole trader briefly but I 've never formed a LTD company ) there are pros and cons to forming a limited company . Pros The tax situation is more flexible . As a sole trader all profits are considered income and subject to income tax and class 4 NI . With a LTD company there is a distinction between money paid out in salary , profits paid out as dividends and profits retained in the buisness . This can sometimes reduce your total tax outlay if you think about how you move the money arround and especially if you want to reinvest your profits in growing the buisness rather than taking them as personal income . you have some shielding ( though not total protection ) . from liabilities run up by the company if it goes bankrupt . You have the structure in place to sell parts of your buisness to other investors . Some companies dislike dealing with sole traders because they can get into trouble if a self employed contractor starts acting like an employee . Cons More paperwork , you have to keep track of the companies money seperate from your own . You should also generally pay yourself at least some of your income as salary which means dealing with the employer side of PAYE and possiblly with workplace pensions . Self employed class 4 NI is lower than the NI ( employees and employers ) paid for an employee . ( It 's also lower than corporation tax but dividends attract a reduced level of income tax which offsets this ) . So if you are n't careful about managing your money you may end up paying more tax as a LTD company .
From my experience , almost always it is cheaper to pay in the local currency , including the bank fees and the bank conversion rates . If you let the store convert to your home currency for you it will be the least favorable rate you could have gotten anywhere . There might be some exceptions , but I have n't seen these .
Trusts are useful for a number of situations , country-centric or not . If there are inheritance tax issues , a trust as owner of the insurance policy can help keep the insurance payout out of the deceased 's estate . If a beneficiary is n't capable of handling a large sum of money , a trust adds a layer of fiduciary responsibility . With that might come the risk of theft as with any third party .
Why not just get another credit card and transfer the balance ? Many of them will give you special perks like x months of no interest for doing so . Also , once you call to actually cancel the card you will see for sure whether they really have any power to negotiate rates . From their perspective 15 % APR is more than 0 % APR which is what they 'd get if they lose your business .
It 's worthwhile to try and find a better minimum down-payment . When I bought my home , I got an FHA loan , which drastically reduced the minimum down-payment required ( I think the minimum is 3 % under FHA ) . Be aware that any down-payment percentage under 20 % means that you 'll have to pay for private mortgage insurance ( PMI ) as part of your monthly mortgage . Here 's <URL> of it . Part of the challenge you 're experiencing may be that banks are only now exercising the due diligence with borrowers for mortgages that they should have been all along . I hope you 're successful in finding the right payment . Getting a mortgage to reduce your spending on housing relative to rent is a wise move . In addition to fixing your monthly costs at a consistent level ( unlike rent , which can rise for reasons you do n't control ) , the mortgage interest deduction makes for a rather helpful tax benefit .
I would put down 12 % and pay PMI . Either way , you are taking out a loan , with payments against 88 % of the value of the home . I assume the mortgage note would be either 15 or 30 years and the 401k loan would be less ( 5 ? 10 ? ) . If you take out an 88 % mortgage loan and pay it off at the same pace you would have paid the 401k loan , you 'll be down to 80 % LTV quickly and PMI will stop . If the housing market rebounds and your house appreciates , you 'll be at 80 % LTV quickly . If you change jobs/lose jobs your mortgage will be unaffected . PMI is an easily quantifiable risk that is worth paying in this case . Contrasted with the 401k loan , the job loss/job change risk is great . It is n't just if you lose your job . Maybe you 'll find a great opportunity with a great company that has a 401k plan that does n't allow loans . Will you forgo taking that job because of your 401k loan ?
The typical down-payment was expected to be 20 % . The idea being that if one could not save 1/5 of the cost of a house , they were not responsible enough to ensure repayment of the loan . It is hard to say whether this is truly a relevant measure . However , in the absence of other data points , it is pretty decent . It typically requires a fair amount of time to amass that much money and it does demonstrate some restraint . ( e.g. it is easily the cost of a decent new car or some other shiny " toy . " ) Income is not necessarily a good measure , on its own . I am certainly more responsible with my spending when I have less money to spend . ( Lately , I have been feeling like my father , scrutinizing every single purchase down to the penny . )
When there is a difference between the two ... no trading occurs . Let 's look at an example : Investor A , B , C , and D all buy/sell shares of company X. Investor A wants to sell 10 shares at $ 20 a share ( Ask price $ 20 x10 ) . Investor B wants to buy 15 shares at $ 10 a share ( Bid price $ 10 x15 ) . Since the bid price and ask price are different , no sale is made . Next Investor C comes along and wants to sell 5 shares at $ 14 ( Ask price $ 14 x5 ) . Still no sale . Investor D comes along and wants to buy 5 shares for $ 14 each . So a sale is finally made . At this point , the stock quote moves to $ 14 . The ask price is $ 20 x10 and the bid price is $ 10 x15 . No further trading will occur until another investor is willing to buy at $ 20 or sell at $ 10 . Another discussion of this topic is shown on <URL> .
From <URL> , A stock split is usually done by companies that have seen their share price increase to levels that are either too high or are beyond the price levels of similar companies in their sector . The primary motive is to make shares seem more affordable to small investors even though the underlying value of the company has not changed . From <URL> , It is often claimed that stock splits , in and of themselves , lead to higher stock prices ; research , however , does not bear this out . What is true is that stock splits are usually initiated after a large run up in share price ... stock splits do increase the liquidity of a stock ; there are more buyers and sellers for 10 shares at $ 10 than 1 share at $ 100 . Some companies have the opposite strategy : by refusing to split the stock and keeping the price high , they reduce trading volume . Berkshire Hathaway is a notable example of this . Something more to munch on , <URL> .
No logistics , just sign the title . Gifts under $ 14K ( as of 2015 ) ( total per year per person you give gifts to ) <URL> . If you 're not going to give any more cars to your sister this year - you 're good to go .
The short answer is that it depends on the industry . Retail : usually have low margins , 3-5 % being a goodish range ; some of the value traders can be even lower . Margin here is nothing compared to volume . If you 're selling bags of potatoes and making a 2 % margin , that 's fantastic as long as you can use the income from the potatoes you sold five minutes ago to buy the potatoes you 'll sell in the next five minutes . Manufacturing : margins tend to be higher on specialised , high-end goods and lower on mass-produced , highly-competitive goods ; could be anywhere from 5-20 % . Mining/Extraction : oil , coal , gold , you name it , usually very good margins but nailed by high tax rates and the globally set prices , so some sources only good at certain price points . A well-managed company will manage these fluctuations . Margins can be from 25-90 % . Services : amongst the highest margins but often the most likely to suffer incredible crashes since competition is fierce and barriers to entry low . Margins usually around 40-60 % . In other words , margin alone - even in comparison to peers - will not be a sufficient index to track company success . I 'll mention Apple quickly as a special case that has managed to charge a premium margin for a mass-market product . Few companies can achieve this . As with all investment analysis , you need to have a very clear understanding of the industry ( i.e. what is " normal " for debt/equity/gearing / margin/cash-on-hand ) as well as of the barriers-to-entry which competitors face . A higher-than-normal margin may swiftly be undermined by competitors ( Apple aside ) . Any company offering perpetual above-the-odds returns may just be a Ponzi scheme ( Bernie Maddof , etc. ) . More important than high-margins or high-profits over some short-term track is consistency of approach , an ability to whether adverse cyclical events , and deep investment in continuity ( i.e. the entire company does n't come to a grinding halt when a crucial staff-member retires ) .
" add the interest for the next 5 payments and divide that by how much you paid on the principal during that time " Let 's see - on a $ 200K 6 % loan , the first 5 months is $ 4869 . Principal reduction is $ 1127 . I get 4.32 or 432 % . But this is nonsense , you divide the interest over the mortgage balance , and get 6 % . You only get those crazy numbers by dividing meaningless ratios . The fact that early on in a mortgage most of the payment goes to interest is a simple fact of the the 30 year nature of amortizing . You are in control , just add extra principal to the payment , if you wish . This idea sounds like the Money Merge Account peddled by UFirst . It 's a scam if ever there was one . I wrote about it extensively on my site and have <URL> . Once you get to this page , the first link is for a free spreadsheet to download , it beats MMA every time and shows how prepaying works , no smoke , no mirrors . The second link is a 65 page PDF that compiles nearly all my writing on this topic as I was one of the finance bloggers doing what I could to expose this scam . I admit it became a crusade , I went as far as buying key word ads on google to attract the search for " money merge account " only to help those looking to buy it find the truth . In the end , I spent a few hundred dollars but saved every visitor the $ 3500 loss of this program . No agent who dialoged with me in public could answer my questions in full , as they fell back on " you need to believe in it . " I have no issue with faith-based religion , it actually stands to reason , but mortgages are numbers and there 's order to them . If you want my $ 3500 , you should know how your system works . Not one does , or they would know it was a scam . Nassim Taleb , author of " The Black Swan " offered up a wonderful quote , " if you see fraud , and do not say ' fraud , ' you are a fraud . " The site you link to is n't selling a product , but a fraudulent idea . What 's most disturbing to me is that the math to disprove his assertion is not complex , not beyond grade school arithmetic . Update 2015 - The linked " rule of thumb " is still there . Still wrong of course . Another scam selling software to do this is now promoted by a spin off of UFirst , called Worth Unlimited . Same scam , new name .
If the market believes that the company is overstaffed , then management acknowledging the issue and resolving the problem can result in the price going up . It can also mean that external events drove the price up , and the bad news was lost in the other issues of the day . Sometimes layoffs are a sign of the company entering a long downward spiral ; in other cases it is a sign of the beginning recovery . The layoffs can also be viewed as good news if they were n't as big as some experts feared . You have to look at the exact situation to understand why news x impacts the companies price .
end question
start question
Why do n't commodity ETFs pay dividends ?
No , it is not for the reason you suspect . Some long-term investors might actually allocate a small percentage of a diversified portfolio to a commodity ETF , as a hedge . Rather , the obvious reason ( and it really should be obvious ! ) is that a hunk of metal or a barrel of oil do n't by themselves generate any cash flow . There simply is nothing to distribute . Worse yet -- it actually costs money to store and maintain physical commodities somewhere . Even if the commodity ETF is synthetic and uses derivatives , and no physical storage is required , there are bankers with mouths to feed . If you are interested in dividends , I suggest you look at a novel legal structure known as a " corporation " . Many corporations are adept at generating profits , and some even distribute a portion of their profits . There are even corporations who specialize in extracting commodities from the ground , if you want to still have exposure to hunks of metal , etc. while getting some yield . Bear in mind that a company that extracts something from the ground is n't the same thing as the thing from the ground . They wo n't necessarily move together .
Any ETF has expenses , including fees , and those are taken out of the assets of the fund as spelled out in the prospectus . Typically a fund has dividend income from its holdings , and it deducts the expenses from the that income , and only the net dividend is passed through to the ETF holder . In the case of QQQ , it certainly will have dividend income as it approximates a large stock index . The prospectus shows that it will adjust daily the reported Net Asset Value ( NAV ) to reflect accrued expenses , and the cash to pay them will come from the dividend cash . ( If the dividend does not cover the expenses , the NAV will decline away from the modeled index . ) Note that the NAV is not the ETF price found on the exchange , but is the underlying value . The price tends to track the NAV fairly closely , both because investors do n't want to overpay for an ETF or get less than it is worth , and also because large institutions may buy or redeem a large block of shares ( to profit ) when the price is out of line . This will bring the price closer to that of the underlying asset ( e.g. the NASDAQ 100 for QQQ ) which is reflected by the NAV .
Short answer : yes . Long answer : you have to check with Desjardins if you can buy other funds using their broker , but if not you can just open another RRSP account with a better broker who gives you this option . You can open an many RRSPs as you wish . If you are really unhappy with Desjardins , you can then transfer your money from there to your new broker without being exposed to tax . <URL>
It depends how you do it . If you roll it from your 401k directly to a Roth then you will have to pay the taxes . The contributions to the 401k are tax deferred . Meaning you do not owe taxes on the money until you collect it . Roth contributions are post tax but the gains are not taxed so long as they are disbursed under acceptable conditions according to the regulations . If you roll it directly from the 401k to a regular tax deferred IRA you should be able to do that with out penalties or taxes . You will still have to pay the taxes at disbursement . If you have the money disbursed to you directly then you will have to pay the penalties , fees , and taxes . Your contributions to an IRA will then be subject to limitations based on the IRA . It will literally be exactly like you are taking money from your pocket to invest in the IRA . Your company should give you the option of a rollover check . This check will be made out to you but it will not be able to be deposited in a regular account or cashed . It will only be redeemable for deposit into a retirement account that meets the regulatory requirements of the 401k rollover criteria . I believe the check I received a few years ago was only good for 60 days . I recall that after 60 days that check was void and I would receive a standard disbursement and would be subject to fees and penalties . I am not sure if that was the policy of T.Rowe Price or if that is part of the regulation .
The uptick rule is gone , but it was weakly reintroduced <URL> , applied to all publicly traded equities : Under the terms of the rule , a circuit breaker would be triggered if a stock falls by 10 % or more in a single day . At that point , short selling would only be allowed if the price is above the current national best bid , a restriction that would apply for the rest of the day and the whole of the following day . Derivatives are not yet restricted in such ways because of their spontaneous nature , requiring a short to increase supply ; however , this latest rule widens options spreads during collapses because the exemption for hedging is now gone , and what 's more a tool used by options market makers , shorting the underlying to offset positive delta , now has to go to the back of the selling line during a panic . Bonds are not restricted because for one there is n't much interest in shorting because bonds usually do n't have enough variance to exceed the cost of borrowing , and many do not trade frequently enough because even the cost to trade bonds is expensive , so arranging a short in its entirety will be expensive . The preferred method to short a bond is with swaps , swaptions , etc. .
In general I 'd say , yeah , if you can pay cash , pay cash . If you pay cash , then by definition you pay zero interest . If you get a loan , you 'll pay interest . Most people get a loan to buy a car because they do n't have the cash . Possible reasons not to pay cash when you could : One : Technically you can pay cash , but if you did , you would have little or no reserve for emergencies . Like if the car costs , say , $ 20,000.00 , and you have $ 20,010.00 in your bank account , then technically you could afford to pay cash , but you probably should n't , because you do n't want to have just $ 10 left . What if tomorrow something comes up ? Two : Arguably , you have a place to invest money that pays more than the interest on the loan . Like say you can get a car loan for , whatever the going rate is today , say 6 % . And you know a place to invest your money that is very safe and almost guaranteed to pay 10 % . It would make sense to borrow to buy the car , invest the cash , and then withdraw money from the investment to make the payments on the car . You 'd end up 4 % ahead . There are a lot of catches to that strategy , though . The biggest is that the more the investment pays , the more likely that it is risky . If you thought the investment would pay 10 % but it ends up paying only 4 % , then you will lose money by this strategy . Also , there 's the psychological element : Many people SAY and fully INTEND to invest their money , but then find other things they want to buy and so spend it instead . If you pay cash , you 're committed .
Yes , absolutely . Consider Microsoft , Updated Jan. 17 , 2003 11:59 p.m. ET Software giant Microsoft Corp. , finally bowing to mounting pressure to return some of its huge cash hoard to investors , said it will begin paying a regular annual dividend to shareholders . From <URL> . Thus , for the years prior to 2003 , the company did n't pay dividends but changed that . There can also be some special one-time dividends as Microsoft did the following year according to the <URL> : The $ 32 billion one-time dividend payment , which comes to $ 3 for each share of Microsoft stock , could be a measurable stimulus to the U.S. economy -- and is expected to arrive just in time for holiday shopping . Course companies can also reduce to stop dividends as well .
A simple response is that it 's a good political/strategic move . Ford have effectively said , " We know we still have debt , but we think the long term future is so good we can go back to paying dividends . " It builds investor confidence and attracts new money . It can also be seen as a way of Ford indicating that they believe the type of debt ( regardless of the amount ) is okay for them to carry .
As mentioned before - you 're over-thinking the hard-pull issue . But do try to make the preapproval as close to the actual bidding as possible - because it costs money . At least from my experience , you 'll get charged the application fee for preapproval , while " pre-qualification " is usually free . If you 're seriously shopping , I find it hard to believe that you ca n't find a house within 3 months . If you 're already in the process and your offer has been accepted and you opened the escrow - I believe the preapproval will be extended if it expires before closing . I 've just had a similar case from the other side , as a buyer , and the seller had a short-sale approval that expired before closing . It was extended to make the deal happen , and that 's when the bank is actually loosing money . So do n't worry about that . If you have n't even started the process and the preapproval expired , you might have to start it all over again from scratch , including all the fees . The credit score is a minor issue ( unless you do it every 2-3 months ) .
Long term gov ' t bonds fluctuate in price with a seemingly small interest rate fluctuation because many years of cash inflows are discounted at low rates . This phenomenon is dulled in a high interest rate environment . For example , just the principal repayment is worth ~ 1/3 , , what it will be in 30 years at 4 % while an overnight loan paying an unrealistic 4 % is worth essentially the same as the principal , . This is more profound in low interest rate economies because , taking the countries undergoing the present misfortune , one can see that their overnight interest rates are double US long term rates while their long term rates are nearly 10x as large as US long term rates . If there were much supply at the longer maturities which have been restrained by interest rates only manageable by the highly skilled or highly risky , a 4 % increase on a 30 % bond is only about a 20 % decline in bond price while a 4 % increase on a 4 % bond is a 50 % decrease . The easiest long term bond to manipulate quantitatively is the perpetuity where is the price of the bond , is the interest payment per some arbitrary period usually 1 year , and is the interest rate paid per some arbitrary period usually 1 year . Since they are expressly linked , a price can be implied for a given interest rate and vice versa if the interest payment is known or assumed . At a 4 % interest rate , the price is At 4.04 % , the price is , a 1 % increase in interest rates and a 0.8 % decrease in price . Longer term bonds such as a 30 year or 20 year bond will not see as extreme price movements . The constant maturity 30 year treasury has fluctuated between 5 % and 2.5 % to ~ 3.75 % now from before the Great Recession til now , so prices will have more or less doubled and then reduced because bond prices are inversely proportional to interest rates as generally shown above . At shorter maturities , this phenomenon is negligible because future cash inflows are being discounted by such a low amount . The one month bill rarely moves in price beyond the bid/ask spread during expansion but can be expected to collapse before a recession and rebound during .
Does my prior answer here to a slightly different question help at all ? <URL>
In other words , math . All the other answers are great , but I thought I might add something concrete to clarify slightly . Consider a counterexample . Suppose I borrow $ 120000 at 1 % / month interest ( I know mortgages are usually priced with annual rates , but this will make the math simpler ) . Further suppose that I want to pay a fixed amount of principal each month , rather than a fixed payment . Let 's say we want to pay off the loan in 10 years ( 120 months ) , so we have a fixed principal payment of $ 1000/month . So what 's the interest for month 1 ? One percent of $ 120K is $ 1200 , so your total payment will be $ 2200 . The second month , the interest will be on $ 119K , so your payment will be $ 2190 . And so on , until the last month you will be paying $ 1010 . So , the amount of interest you pay each month declines , as does your monthly payment . But for most people , paying big payments at the beginning and smaller ones toward the end is completely backwards , since most of us earn more as we progress in our careers . Sixteen years after I took out a mortgage with a $ 1300/month payment , I find it fairly easy to pay , although it was a bit challenging to our cash flow initially . The standard amortization requires a fixed payment each month , but the interest amount still has to decline as the principal declines . That means the amount of principal paid must increase as you go along .
Trusts are useful for a number of situations , country-centric or not . If there are inheritance tax issues , a trust as owner of the insurance policy can help keep the insurance payout out of the deceased 's estate . If a beneficiary is n't capable of handling a large sum of money , a trust adds a layer of fiduciary responsibility . With that might come the risk of theft as with any third party .
Why ? Balance sheet is balance sheet , why is it complicated ? Bank shareholders get dividends in exactly the same way as any other company shareholders do : the company ends up with net profits , which the board of directors decides to distribute to shareholders based on certain amount per share . If at all . Not all the profits are distributed , and in fact - there are companies who do n't distribute dividends at all . Apple , for example , has n't ever distributed dividends until very very recently .
Under US tax laws , the dividends that a mutual fund receives from the stocks that it holds are taxable income to the mutual fund unless the dividends are distributed to to the shareholders of the mutual fund . This also applies to the net capital gains if the fund sells some of the shares it holds , but if the fund 's activities result in a net capital loss to the fund , the loss is not distributed but carried forward by the fund for offsetting capital gains in future years . Mutual funds distribute all their net income to the shareholders because retaining the income and using it to capitalize the fund reduces the gain by the income tax , paid at corporate tax rates , by the mutual fund ; and corporate tax rates are generally higher than personal income tax rates . The dividends and capital gains distributed to the share holders of the funds are taxable as dividends and capital gains respectively to the share holders , that is , the favorable tax treatment , if any , for such kinds of income is available to the shareholders of the mutual fund . Mutual funds allow their shareholders to reinvest their distributions in the fund , ( and many load funds do not charge the load on such reinvestments ) , but this reinvestment is a decision for the shareholder to make . But , regardless of whether the distribution is reinvested in the fund or taken in cash , the distribution is taxable income to the shareholder .
IRS Publication 17 Your Income Tax says on page 203 ( in regard to what you can deduct on Schedule A as an itemized deduction ) You can deduct safe deposit box rent if you use the box to store taxable income-producing stocks , bonds , or investment-related papers and documents . You can not deduct the rent if you use the box only for jewelry , other personal items , or tax-exempt securities . If you are taking the standard deduction , you get no additional tax advantage from your rental fee even if it is used solely for storage of investment property and documents . The tax advantage is incorporated into the standard deduction .
No , the expense ratio would be something you would n't be charged . If you bought shares of the ETF long , then the dividends are usually reduced by the expense ratio if you wanted to know where to find that charge in general . You would have to make up for any dividends the underlying stocks as part of general shorting since the idea is that once you buy to put back the shares , it has to appear as if they were n't missing in the first place . No , the authorized participant would handle changes to the underlying structure if needed .
The answer is that other than a small number of applications ( the approx . 10 % of gold production that goes to ' industrial uses ' ) gold does not have intrinsic value beyond being pretty and rare ( and useful for making jewelry . ) There are a number of ' industrial ' applications and uses for gold ( see other answers for a list ) but the volume consumed this way is fairly small , especially relative to the capacity to mine new gold and reclaim existing gold . If you removed investment , and jewelry usage ( especially culturally driven jewelry usage ) then there 's no way the remaining uses for industry and dentistry could sustain the price levels we currently see for gold . Furthermore , and perhaps more importantly , <URL> shows the total number of tons consumed for industrial uses has been shrinking for several years now , and that was prior to recent price increases , so it is difficult to tie that reduced demand to increasing prices . And one might postulate in a ' collapsed society ' you seem to be referring to in your question , that a lot of the recent industrial demand ( e.g. the '50 cents of gold in each cellphone ' ) could quite possibly disappear entirely . The argument many people use for gold having value is usually ' been used as money for thousands of years ' . But this confuses gold having a value of its own with the reasons why something makes a useful currency . Gold has a large number of characteristics that make it an ideal currency , and of all the elements available it is perhaps the best physical element to serve as a currency . it is n't a gas or liquid it does n't burn it 's non-reactive it does n't have an absurdly high melting point ( as with platinum ) it 's rare but not TOO rare ( like rhodium ) it wo n't kill you ( as with a radioactive metal ) it does n't corrode or tarnish it 's relatively easy to test with a ' touchstone ' and ' the acid test ' it 's easy to divide , or ' mint ' in various sizes ( an issue with gems , diamonds etc ) recall ' pieces of eight ' BUT just as with a dollar bill , just because it is a good currency , does NOT give it an intrinsic value . Any currency is only worth what someone will trade you for it . The value is set by the economy etc. , not the medium used as a currency . So yes , people will probably always use gold as money , but that does n't make the money worth anything , it 's just a medium of exchange . Incidentally two other things should be noted . The first is that you have a problem when the medium itself used for a currency becomes worth more than the face value . Hence why we stopped using silver in coins , and there were concerns over pennies due to the price of copper . This leads to the second point , which is that currently , gold is TOO RARE to suffice as a world currency , hence why all countries went off the gold standard years ago . The size of national and global economies was growing faster than the supply of gold , and hence it was becoming impossible to have enough gold to back all the currencies ( inflation concerns aside ) .
This is often the case where traders are closing out short positions they do n't want to hold overnight , for a variety of reasons that matter to them . Most frequently , this is from day traders or high-frequency traders settling their accounts before the markets close .
The strategy is right . As pointed out by you , will the " volatility cause the premium on the price of the options to be too high to make this worthwhile " ... this is subjective and depends on how the markets feels about the volatility and the trend ... ie if the market believes that the stock will go up , the option at 45 would cost quite a bit less . However if the market believes the stock would go down , the option at 45 would be quite high [ and may not even be available ] . There is no generic right or wrong , the strategy is right [ with out without putting dividend into equation ] it depends what options are available at what prices .
end question
start question
Why would preferred shares have less potential for capital gain compared to common stock ?
I once bought both preferred and common shares in a bankrupt company . It is true that those preferred shares had less potential for appreciation than the common shares . The reason is because the preferred shares were trading around $ 50 and had a face value of $ 1000 . This means that if the bankruptcy proceedings ended up finding enough assets to make the preferred shares whole , then the preferred shareholders would be paid $ 1000 per share and no more than that . So if you bought the preferred shares at $ 50 and received $ 1000 per share for them , then you made a 1900 % gain . But if the bankruptcy proceedings found enough assets to pay not just the preferred shareholders but also the common shareholders , then the common shareholders had the potential for a greater gain than the preferred shareholders . The common stock was trading around 20 cents at the time , and if enough assets were found to pay $ 10 per share to the common shareholders , then that would have been a 4900 % gain . The preferred shares were capped by their face value , but the common shares had no limit on how high they could go .
Yes , it counts as capital gain . No , do not put it on line 9a of the full Form 1040 . It goes on Schedule D then to line 13 of the Form 1040 . The instructions to Form 1099-DIV explain that they are included in your capital gain distributions on Line 13 : Box 2a . Shows total capital gain distributions from a regulated investment company or real estate investment trust . Report the amounts shown in box 2a on Schedule D ( Form 1040 ) , line 13 . But , if no amount is shown in boxes 2c -- 2d and your only capital gains and losses are capital gain distributions , you may be able to report the amounts shown in box 2a on line 13 of Form 1040 ( line 10 of Form 1040A ) rather than Schedule D. See the Form 1040/1040A instructions . Your REIT and RIC distributions are n't counted as dividends , you count them as capital gains , which is true for complicated reasons relating to those particular corporate forms . But you can use <URL> , then report it on <URL> as capital gains .
You only got 75 shares , so your basis is the fair market value of the stock as of the grant date times the number of shares you got : $ 20 * 75 . Functionally , it 's the same thing as if your employer did this : Paid you $ 2,000 cash Withheld $ 500 of that cash for taxes , and recorded that withholding on your W-2 Immediately forced you to buy company stock with the remaining $ 1,500 As such , the basis in that stock is $ 1,500 ( $ 20 * 75 ) . The other 25 shares are n't yours and were n't ever yours , so they are n't part of your basis ( for net issuance ; if they were sell to cover , then the end result would be pretty similar , but there 'd be another transaction involved , but we wo n't go there ) . To put it another way , suppose your employer paid you a $ 2000 bonus , leaving you with a $ 1500 check after tax withholding . Being a prudent person and not wishing to blow your bonus on luxury goods , you invest that $ 1500 in a well-researched investment . You would n't doubt that your cost basis in that investment at $ 1500 .
First a warning : if you 're a foreigner you must familiarize yourself with the FATCA and FBAR requirements . Search this forum and ask questions if you do n't know what these are . The penalties are horrifying and can drive you bankrupt even if you do n't even owe a dime in taxes , just because you did n't attach a piece of paper to your tax return . To your question : In the United States , brokers/banks do not withhold taxes from your gains ( what is called " at source " ) , it is your responsibility . Taxes are due when the income is earned , i.e. : when you sell the stocks . Paying on April 15th next year may trigger late payment penalties . The right way to do it is using <URL> . However , since capital gains is not your only income but you also have salary , you have another option . Using <URL> , you can adjust the withholding your employer takes out of your paycheck so that it will cover not only the salary itself but also the extra income you have through capital gains . If you do that , you do not need to do the quarterly estimates . You can use the worksheets in W4 instructions to calculate the exact number . What you need to understand is that the employer does n't withhold the actual tax , but rather what you think your actual tax should be given your situation . Using form W4 you can ask the employer to withhold more or less , and you can change your selection during the year if adjustments are required . Any tax paid through withholding is considered paid on time ( even if all of it is paid on December 31st ) . If you withheld too much , it balances out on your yearly tax return ( the one due by the April 15th ) , and you get a refund from the IRS . If you withheld too little - you have tax due on April 15th and you pay it . As long as due is less than $ 1000 or whatever your tax liability was the year before - you wo n't have penalties ( the $ 1000 delta refers to withholding only , if you paid through estimates and have tax due - you may get hit by penalties even if you owe less than $ 1000 ) . Do I have to keep all record of transactions in order to calculate the gains and appropriate tax payment ? You need to keep all records as long as the tax year is open ( statute of limitation is 3-6 years for most income tax issues ) , however it is advised to digitize your records and keep it forever . You 'll need it in case of an audit or dispute with the IRS or the State taxing agency .
Yes , you still need to pay income tax on your capital gain regardless of whether you converted your USD proceeds back into CAD . When you calculate your gains for tax purposes , you 'll need to convert all of your gains to Canadian dollars . Generally speaking , CRA will expect you to use a <URL> . At that page , notice the remark at right : Are the Exchange Rates Shown Here Accepted by Canada Revenue Agency ? Yes . The Agency accepts Bank of Canada exchange rates as the basis for calculations involving income and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies .
The only general rule is " If you would buy the stock at its current price , hold and possibly buy . If you would n't , sell and buy something you believe in more strongly . " Note that this rule applies no matter what the stock is doing . And that it leaves out the hard work of evaluating the stock and making those decisions . If you do n't know how to do that evaluation to your own satisfaction , you probably should n't be buying individual stocks . Which is why I stick with index funds .
Yes When exercising a stock option you will be buying the stock at the strike price so you will be putting up your money , if you lose that money you can declare it as a loss like any other transaction . So if the stock is worth $ 1 and you have 10 options with a strike at $ 0.50 you will spend $ 500 when you exercise your options . If you hold those shares and the company is then worth $ 0 you lost $ 500 . I have not verified my answer so this is solely from my understanding of accounting and finance . Please verify with your accountant to be sure .
You do n't have to wait . If you sell your shares now , your gain can be considered a capital gain for income tax purposes . Unlike in the United States , Canada does not distinguish between short-term vs. long-term gains where you 'd pay different rates on each type of gain . Whether you buy and sell a stock within minutes or buy and sell over years , any gain you make on a stock can generally be considered a capital gain . I said generally because there is an exception : If you are deemed by CRA to be trading professionally -- that is , if you make a living buying and selling stocks frequently -- then you could be considered doing day trading as a business and have your gains instead taxed as regular income ( but you 'd also be able to claim additional deductions . ) Anyway , as long as your primary source of income is n't from trading , this is n't likely to be a problem . Here are some good articles on these subjects : Jamie Golombek 's National Post article : <URL> . Million Dollar Journey 's blog post : <URL> . The Canadian Tax Resource blog post : <URL> .
The companies have Symbols on all exchanges where they are traded . They can be in different countries , with different prices and in different currencies . Also maybe trading at different times ( as market hours vary ) .
With your numbers , look at it this way - You borrowed $ 50 . When the stock is $ 100 , you are at 50 % margin . What 's most important , is that there 's margin interest charged , so the amount owed will increase regardless of the stock price . When calculating your return or loss , the interest has to be accounted for or your numbers will be wrong . For a small investor , margin rates can run high , and often , will offset much of your potential gain . What good is a $ 100 gain if you paid $ 125 in margin interest ?
I think George 's answer explains fairly well why the brokerages do n't allow this - it 's not an exchange rule , it 's just that the brokerage has to have the shares to lend , and normally those shares come from people 's margin , which is impossible on a non-marginable stock . To address the question of what the alternatives are , on popular stocks like SIRI , a deep In-The-Money put is a fairly accurate emulation of an actual short interest . If you look at the <URL> you will see that a $ 3 ( or higher ) put has a delta of - $ 1 , which is the same delta as an actual short share . You also do n't have to worry about problems like margin calls when buying options . The only thing you have to worry about is the expiration date , which is n't generally a major issue if you 're buying in-the-money options ... unless you 're very wrong about the direction of the stock , in which case you could lose everything , but that 's always a risk with penny stocks no matter how you trade them . At least with a put option , the maximum amount you can lose is whatever you spent on the contract . With a short sale , a bull rush on the stock could potentially wipe out your entire margin . That 's why , when betting on downward motion in a microcap or penny stock , I actually prefer to use options . Just be aware that option contracts can generally only move in increments of $ 0.05 , and that your brokerage will probably impose a bid-ask spread of up to $ 0.10 , so the share price has to move down at least 10 cents ( or 10 % on a roughly $ 1 stock like SIRI ) for you to just break even ; definitely do n't attempt to use this as a day-trading tool and go for longer expirations if you can .
The reason I do n't know of any banks who would offer this to you ( even if you held the investment account with their bank ) is that there is no upside to the bank . It is a good idea for you , but what would they have to gain from this arrangement ? The reason banks require a down payment is underwriting quality . If you can afford a significant down payment , they know that there is a significantly lower chance that you will default . However , if you were to provide an investment account as collateral , you would receive all the upside , and any downside would reduce their collateral as a percent of the amount loaned . This sort of idea could potentially work along the lines of a margin call ( ie you have to provide additional capital if your asset value drops ) , but this would have the effective of leveraging the bank 's risk , when their objective is to lower their risk through requiring a down payment . I do n't see a reason why the bank would take on the risk that you would need to provide additional capital down the road with no upside for them . Additionally , many banks have backed away from the kinds of zero-down-payment and negative-amortization-ARM loans that got them ( or the people they sold them to ) in trouble over the last few years in an effort to reduce how much risk they take on . I think that in theory , you 'd have to offer a lot more benefit to the bank , and that in practice it 's probably a non-starter right now .
If the market believes that the company is overstaffed , then management acknowledging the issue and resolving the problem can result in the price going up . It can also mean that external events drove the price up , and the bad news was lost in the other issues of the day . Sometimes layoffs are a sign of the company entering a long downward spiral ; in other cases it is a sign of the beginning recovery . The layoffs can also be viewed as good news if they were n't as big as some experts feared . You have to look at the exact situation to understand why news x impacts the companies price .
From <URL> , A stock split is usually done by companies that have seen their share price increase to levels that are either too high or are beyond the price levels of similar companies in their sector . The primary motive is to make shares seem more affordable to small investors even though the underlying value of the company has not changed . From <URL> , It is often claimed that stock splits , in and of themselves , lead to higher stock prices ; research , however , does not bear this out . What is true is that stock splits are usually initiated after a large run up in share price ... stock splits do increase the liquidity of a stock ; there are more buyers and sellers for 10 shares at $ 10 than 1 share at $ 100 . Some companies have the opposite strategy : by refusing to split the stock and keeping the price high , they reduce trading volume . Berkshire Hathaway is a notable example of this . Something more to munch on , <URL> .
If your employer matches a percentage of your contributions , then you should try to max out your plan . Once you have completed maxing out your 401k , you may want to open up an IRA for several reasons : will your 401k be enough to sustain your lifestyle in retirement ? Your IRA allows you to save even more for retirement . you can invest in all sorts of stuff through your IRA that might not be available in your plan . you can withdraw the principal from your IRA , usually after five years . This serves as another form of savings . IRAs have some asset protection in the event of bankruptcy . A normal savings or investment account usually does not offer such protection .
The third Friday of each month is an expiration for the monthly options on each stock . Stock with standardized options are in one of three " cycles " and have four open months at any give time . See <URL> In addition some stocks have weekly options now . Those generally have less interest because they are necessarily short-term . Anything expiring on April 8 and 22 ( Fridays this year but not third Fridays of the month ) are weeklies . The monthly options are open for longer periods of time so they attract more interest over the time that they are open . They also potentially attract a different type of investor due to their length of term , although , as it gets close to their expiration date they may start to behave more like weeklies .
No , but it is certainly a possibility . the efficient market hypothesis would say that this means that the market perceives the present value of all future earning as negative . These earnings might take the form of a writedown of assets at some point . ( Companies carry a goodwill asset that is generally imaginary . They book that asset when they buy companies for more than they are worth . ) It would be as if PRUN was a stock tracking my life . If I bought my house in 2006 for $ 1 million cash . I might have a book value of $ 1 million . However , PRUN might trade at $ 500k because the market knows that my asset is n't really worth $ 1 million and at some point my earnings will take a hit to reflect that . It might also mean that future " real " earnings " ie actual profit and loss on sales " are going to be negative . This would mean bankruptcy is more likely .
If one wants to have a bound on the loss percentages that are acceptable , this is would be a way to enforce that . For example , suppose someone wants to have a 5 % stop-loss but does n't want this to be worse than 10 % as if the stock goes down more than 10 % then the sell should n't happen . Thus , if the stock opened in a gap down 15 % one day , this triggers the stop-loss and would exit at too low of a price as the gap was quite high as I wonder how familiar are you with how much a stock 's price could change that makes the prices not be as continuous as one would think . At least this would be my thinking on a volatile stock where one may want to try to limit losses if the stock does fall within a specific range .
For various reasons , real estate prices exhibit far more memory than stock prices . The primary reason for this is that real estate is much less liquid . Transaction costs for stock trading are on the order of 10 basis points ( 0.1 % ) , whereas a real estate transaction will typically have total costs ( including title , lawyers , brokers , engineers , etc. ) of around 5 % of the amount of the transaction . A stock transaction can be executed in milliseconds , whereas real estate transactions typically take months . Thus today 's behavior is a much better indicator of future price behavior for real estate than for stocks .
One reason that a bond can be significantly less than face value is because people are seeking better investments elsewhere , so for example if a bond does n't mature for another 10 years , that 20 % increase in face value is n't very attractive when compared to say leaving your money in the stock market for 10 years . Another reason could be that the credit-worthiness of the issuer has collapsed and people expect that there is a fairly good chance they are not going to make the payment . This could be what you would see if for example it was a one year time until maturity , but it has a value of 40 % of the face value . There is a risk , because they can simply not pay . For example people who bought Greek bonds .
end question
start question
How can I buy U.S.-listed stock as a South African ?
Foreigner can use <URL> in lieu of SSN to open US bank accounts . If there 's no local broker at all in your own country that allows trading in the US ( which I seriously doubt ... ) , you 'll have to go through the tedious and problematic procedure to issue an ITIN , or open a trading account in person next time you visit the US ( and then it will be very limited with what you can do if you do n't have a tax ID ) .
Call the CBOE , the Chicago Board of Options Exchange I 've requested options on several IPOs in the past . You mainly have to convince them that there is a market for them ( or they wo n't be inclined to provide liquidity ) . The CBOE could talk to the company in question to help convince them , or the CBOE will just tell you when the options will begin trading . Oh yeah , sometimes they 'll ask you who you work for , just try to avoid that question , they do n't like to talk to individual/retail investors .
Yes , you can insure against the fall in price of stock by purchasing a <URL> . You pay for a put and if the price of the share falls below the " strike price " of the put , then you can exercise the put . On exercise , the person who sold you the put contract agrees to buy the stock for the strike price , even though that strike price is higher than the market price . You can adjust the level of insurance by buying put options at higher or lower prices , or buying fewer put options than shares you own ( leaving some shares uninsured ) . Alternatively , you can minimize your risk exposure by investing in an <URL> or other fund , which gives you partial ownership in a large number of shares . That means on any given day , lots of shares do worse and lots of shares do better . You can reduce the need for insurance by purchasing a lower-risk , lower-growth financial product .
With your numbers , look at it this way - You borrowed $ 50 . When the stock is $ 100 , you are at 50 % margin . What 's most important , is that there 's margin interest charged , so the amount owed will increase regardless of the stock price . When calculating your return or loss , the interest has to be accounted for or your numbers will be wrong . For a small investor , margin rates can run high , and often , will offset much of your potential gain . What good is a $ 100 gain if you paid $ 125 in margin interest ?
If I buy VUSA from one exchange , can I sell it in a different exchange , assuming my brokerage account lets me trade in both exchanges ? Or is it somehow tied to the exchange I bought it from ? This does n't happen for all securities and between all stock exchanges . So that is dependent on broker and country . I checked for VUSA with Selftrade . They categorically refused allowing me to trade in VUSA in different exchanges . I can only buy and sell in same currency only , albeit sell ( buy ) in the same exchange where I buy ( sell ) from . Should be the same behaviour for all brokers for us mere mortals , if you are a bank or a millionaire than that might be a different question . The VUSA you quote is quoted in GBP in LSE and in EUR in AEX , and the ETF has been created by an Irish entity and has an Irish ISIN . As Chris mentioned below , happens between US and Canadian exchanges , but not sure it happens across all exchanges . You can not deal in inter-listed stocks in LSE and NYSE . Since it 's the same asset , its value should not vary across exchanges once you compensate for exchange rates , right ? Yes , else it opens up itself for arbitrage ( profit without any risk ) which everybody wants . So even if any such instance occurs , either people will exploit it to make the arbitrage profit zero ( security reflects the equilibrium price ) or the profit from such transaction is so less , compared with the effort involved , that people will tend to ignore it . Anyways arbitrage profit is very difficult to garner nowadays , considering the super computers at work in the market who exploit these discrepancies , the moment they see them and bring the security right to the zero arbitrage profit point . If there 's no currency risk because of # 2 , what other factors should I consider when choosing an exchange to trade in ? Liquidity ? Something else ? Time difference , by the time you wake up to trade in Japan , the Japanese markets would have closed . Tax implications across multiple continents . Law of the land , providing protection to investors . Finding a broker dealing in markets you want to explore or dealing with multiple brokers . Regulatory headaches .
From the <URL> I think it is fairly clear that it is OK : Can I open a Help to Buy : ISA with someone else ? No . Help to Buy : ISAs are only available to individuals . But , you can put more than one government bonus towards the home you are buying . So , if you are buying a home with someone else who is also a first time buyer , they can open and save money into their own account and receive a government bonus . Inference : if you are buying a home with someone else who is NOT also a first time buyer , they ca n't get their own account and get the bonus ( but there 's no problem with you doing so ) . Alternatively - open the Help To Buy ISA , you 'll still get the normal interest rate on it , and then argue the case with the conveyancer / solicitor once you actually buy the property and claim the Government bonus . In fact , <URL> is the declaration you ( well , specifically , your girlfriend ) would have to sign at the point you jointly make the purchase . Nothing in there that forbids it being a joint purchase with a non-first-time-buyer either .
Any time a large order it placed for Buy , the sell side starts increasing as the demand of Buy has gone up . [ Vice Versa is also true ] . Once this orders gets fulfilled , the demand drops and hence the Sell price should also lower . Depending on how much was the demand / supply without your order , the price fluctuation would vary . For examply if before your order , for this particular share the normal volume is around 100 's of shares then you order would spike things up quite a bit . However if for other share the normal volume is around 100000 's then your order would not have much impact .
<URL> : Include taxes ( state , local , or foreign ) paid on real estate you own that was not used for business . ... If you want to make a business out of her property and be her agent in the management , you might be able to work with an accountant on this , but it wo n't be a valid personal deduction .
This is a state by state thing , and I 'm cheating because I know you are in New York State : You need a <URL> . You do n't have to incorporate ( LLC , etc ) for this , but it is not your SSN . You need to get a <URL> for the state . When you purchase items for resale in NY State , you can give them a <URL> to prove you are tax-exempt . When you sell your items , you need to charge sales tax to residents of NY . ( This is wildly complicated because the rates change for EVERY county , and sometimes even sub counties , in NY - use their <URL> ) .
Expected this to be a bit easier than it was , but dug around for a while and found what I hope is deep enough answer for your situation . Here 's the live report on NASDAQ 's site : <URL> Top 5 Holders FMR LLC 15,335,005 CAPITAL RESEARC ... 12,730,080 PRICE T ROWE AS ... 10,054,346 VANGUARD GROUP ... 9,220,692 STATE STREET CO. . . 8,476,124 You can page almost endlessly through the rest of the institutional owners here : <URL> Insider Control Note Larry , Sergei &amp; Eric Schmidt together own > 90 % of the Class B shares of the stock , which have 10 votes each ( vs. 1 vote per Class A share ) , so they apparently control 68 % of all voting rights in the company ( think I read that in their latest 10Q ) Freshness Looks like that report is actually refreshed ( via SEC Form 4 filings ) on a daily basis , w / the baselines taken from quarterly 13F filings - not sure , that 's all new to me , took that from description offered on site , here : " The data displayed in the Holdings Summary provides a snapshot of institutional holdings and activity for a particular stock . The institutional holdings summary data encompasses the holdings and change from most recent 13F filings . The insider filer data counts the number of monthly positions over 3 month and 12 month time spans . Summary data is calculated daily , using the most up to date information available . " Further Info While the report 's on NASDAQ.com , it 's apparently sourced from EDGAR Online , so if the depth/formatting of the NASDAQ report is n't what you 're looking for , you might try that too .
Probably none . First , you need to itemize . But then , this deduction is subject to a 2 % floor , i.e it 's only deductible to the extent it exceeds 2 % of your AGI . If these fees were on the high side , some might have exceeded this floor . And in that case you can use the entire amount spent when you start the math . Update - David , I 'm sorry if my answer appeared curt . All expenses you paid in 2014 are part of the math when doing your return due 4/15/15 , even though the work was for older returns the tax guy worked on . The rest of my answer should be that you need to study where on Schedule A this flows to - There are a few things that add up for this category . It then gets grouped and only what exceeds 2 % of your AGI flows to the Schedule A numbers . For those already in the black via line 21 , the result is all cost flows to the deduction . Without that , there 's a good chance little to none will be helpful to you .
In order to short a stock , you have to borrow the number of shares that you 're shorting from someone else who holds the shares , so that you can deliver the shares you 're shorting if it becomes necessary to do so ( usually ; there 's also <URL> , where you do n't have to do this , but it 's banned in a number of jurisdictions including the US ) . If a stock has poor liquidity , or is in high demand for shorting , then it may well be impossible to find anyone from whom it can be borrowed , which is what has happened in this instance .
I say yes . The realtors will have you think you 're missing a golden opportunity no matter how the market actually is . ( I know , I 've asked them before AND after the bubble burst ) . You actually save a LOT of money renting longer . The interest , PMI , HOA , insurance , repairs , extra utilities furniture all costs you would n't have spent renting . People always buy a house bigger than they need , while renting you can move only when you need extra space . In short - think of a house as an expense , not as an investment . Do n't buy a house until the expense is worth it on its own .
Great question . There are several reasons ; I 'm going to list the few that I can think of off the top of my head right now . First , even if institutional bank holdings in such a term account are covered by deposit insurance ( this , as well as the amount covered , varies geographically ) , the amount covered is generally trivial when seen in the context of bank holdings . An individual might have on the order of $ 1,000 - $ 10,000 in such an account ; for a bank , that 's basically chump change , and you are looking more at numbers in the millions of dollars range . Sometimes a lot more than that . For a large bank , even hundreds of millions of dollars might be a relatively small portion of their holdings . <URL> ( I just pulled a big bank out of thin air , here ; no affiliation with them that I know of ) states that as of December 2011 , their excess liquidity was 171,581 million US dollars ( over 170 billion dollars ) , with a bottom line total assets of $ 923,225 million ( a shade under a trillion dollars ) book value . Good luck finding a bank that will pay you 4 % interest on even a fraction of such an amount . GS ' income before tax in 2011 was a shade under 6.2 billion dollars ; 4 % on 170 billion dollars is 6.8 billion dollars . That is , the interest payments at such a rate on their excess liquidity alone would have cost more than they themselves made in the entire year , which is completely unsustainable . Government bonds are as guaranteed as deposit-insurance-covered bank accounts ( it 'll be the government that steps in and pays the guaranteed amount , quite possibly issuing bonds to cover the cost ) , but ( assuming the country does not default on its debt , which happens from time to time ) you will get back the entire amount plus interest . For a deposit-insured bank account of any kind , you are only guaranteed ( to the extent that one can guarantee anything ) the maximum amount in the country 's bank deposit insurance ; I believe in most countries , this is at best on the order of $ 100,000 . If the bank where the money is kept goes bankrupt , for holdings on the order of what banks deal with , you would be extremely lucky to recover even a few percent of the principal . Government bonds are also generally accepted as collateral for the bank 's own loans , which can make a difference when you need to raise more money in short order because a large customer decided to withdraw a big pile of cash from their account , maybe to buy stocks or bonds themselves . Government bonds are generally liquid . That is , they are n't just issued by the government , held to maturity while paying interest , and then returned ( electronically , these days ) in return for their face value in cash . Government bonds are bought and sold on the " secondary market " as well , where they are traded in very much the same way as public company stocks . If banks started simply depositing money with each other , all else aside , then what would happen ? Keep in mind that the interest rate is basically the price of money . Supply-and-demand would dictate that if you get a huge inflow of capital , you can lower the interest rate paid on that capital . Banks do n't pay high interest ( and certainly would n't do so to each other ) because of their intristic good will ; they pay high interest because they can not secure capital funding at lower rates . This is a large reason why the large banks will generally pay much lower interest rates than smaller niche banks ; the larger banks are seen as more reliable in the bond market , so are able to get funding more cheaply by issuing bonds . Individuals will often buy bonds for the perceived safety . Depending on how much money you are dealing with ( sold a large house recently ? ) it is quite possible even for individuals to hit the ceiling on deposit insurance , and for any of a number of reasons they might not feel comfortable putting the money in the stock market . Buying government bonds then becomes a relatively attractive option -- you get a slightly lower return than you might be able to get in a high-interest savings account , but you are virtually guaranteed return of the entire principal if the bond is held to maturity . On the other hand , it might not be the case that you will get the entire principal back if the bank paying the high interest gets into financial trouble or even bankruptcy . Some people have personal or systemic objections toward banks , limiting their willingness to deposit large amounts of money with them . And of course in some cases , such as for example retirement savings , it might not even be possible to simply stash the money in a savings account , in which case bonds of some kind is your only option if you want a purely interest-bearing investment .
Usually , you can buy ETFs through brokerages . I looked at London to see if there 's any familiar brokerage names , and it appears that the address below is to Fidelity Investments Worldwide and <URL> indicates that you can buy securities . Any brokerage , in theory , should allow you to invest in securities . You could always call and ask if they allow you to invest in ETFs . Some brokerages may also allow you to purchase securities in other countries ; for instance , some of the firms in the U.S. allow investors to invest in the ETF HK :2801 , which is not a U.S. ETF . Many countries have ETF securities available to local and foreign investors . <URL> appears to help point people to brokers in London . Also , <URL> on this site ( a UK investor who 's invested in the U.S. through Barclays ) .
The agent listed on the sign works for the home owner . They have signed an agreement with them to get the best deal they can . ( Best can be measured by money , speed , hassle ) . If you use the same agent , they probably will have to give you a dual agent form , which advises you of that fact , and you recognize they work for two parties with different goals . Therefore get your own agent . They will show you houses that you are interested in and can afford . They will keep your interests in mind , they can help you determine the amount your should offer , and the contingencies you should put on the deal . Remember the seller wants the most money and no contingencies . If there is one agent , they get the full commission ( lets assume 6 % ) . If each party has their own agent , they will each get 3 % . The commission is paid for from the sellers funds . ( Yes I know the commission is rolled into the price/mortgage ) . Having your own agent will not increase the buyers costs . There are times when a sellers agent tries to keep the listing for themselves , so they get the full commission . They are hurting the seller when they do this . They are limiting the possible buyers , they are telling anybody with an agent to stay away .
Ideally you would negotiate a car price without ever mentioning : your intentions around financing whether or not you work for the car company whether you 've recently graduated any trade-in you might be bringing or lease you need to get out of And other factors that affect the price . You and the dealer would then negotiate a true price for the car , followed by the application of rebates , followed by negotiating for the loan if there is to be one . In practice this rarely happens . The sales rep asks point blank what rebates you qualify for ( by asking get-to-know-you questions like where you work or if you served in the armed forces - you may not realize that these are do-you-qualify-for-a-rebate questions ) before you 've even chosen a model . They take that into account right from the beginning , along with whether they 'll make a profit lending you money , or have to spend something to subsidize your zero percent loan . However unlike your veteran 's status , your loan intentions are changeable . So when you get to the end you can ask if the price could be improved by paying cash . Or you could try putting the negotiated price on a credit card , and when they do n't like that , ask for a further discount to stop you from using the credit card and paying cash .
I think your first step is to be asking for an itemized billing as to exactly what services they claim to have rendered in the half hour that would result in that sort of charges . These days a lot of medical providers have outrageously high rates if you are not a member of a medical plan that has negotiated rates with the provider . I 've heard of instances where someone without insurance was being charged anywhere from 5-8 TIMES more than someone covered by a health plan would be billed . ( this seems to be the new tactic to make up for the expenses of covering those without coverage or a means to pay . Once you have some kind of accounting for the charges , if you ca n't get them to reduce it to a reasonable level , it might be time to contact a consumer advocate at a local paper or news station . If you were recommended specifically to this OT by your primary provider , I 'd also let them know about these insane charges , and you might want to suggest it would be in the best interests of their patients for them to find someone else ( with less egregious fee schedule ) to refer patients to for such services in the future . An important lesson here is to ask about charges and insurance coverage IN ADVANCE and do n't be afraid to shop around and check multiple providers . There is very little transparency of pricing in the healthcare industry at the moment , and prices for the very same procedure ( such as a consult , or medical imaging ) can vary widely ( e.g. three maybe even four digit percentage differences ) from one provider to another . You really need to be an informed consumer when it comes to health care these days to avoid being taken to the cleaners .
Trust in the <URL> and if you do n't believe them , then their <URL> which is HM Government . The numbers are regional instead of by city , and are mean averages . For your three areas : London # 29,947 Yorkshire ( including Leeds I believe ) # 20,247 South West England ( which would include Bristol ; but also all of Cornwall ) # 20,954 A more industry specific query might have significantly different results .
I 'm just began playing in the stock market . I assume you mean that you 're not using real money , but rather you have an account with a stock simulator like <URL> . I am hopeful that 's the case due to the high level of risk involved in short selling like you 're describing . Here is <URL> about short selling that expands a bit on that point . To learn much more about the ins and outs of short selling I will point again to Investopedia . I swear I do n't work for them , but they do have a great <URL> . When you short sell a stock you are borrowing the stock from your broker . ( The broker typically uses stock held by one or more of his clients to cover the loan . ) Since it 's basically a loan you pay interest . Of course the longer you hold it the more interest you pay . Also , as Joe mentioned there are scenarios in which you may be forced to buy the stock ( at a higher price than you sold it ) . This tends to happen when the stock price is going against the short sell ( i.e. you lose money ) . Finally , did anyone mention that the potential losses in a short sell are infinite ?
end question
start question
Should I pay off my 6 % student loan using the income that I would normally put into my two IRAs ?
If I were you , I would pay off the student loan as quick as possible . Here 's the reason : A 6 % guaranteed return-on-investment is pretty good . And that is essentially what you are getting when you pay off your debt . I understand the feeling of being behind on your retirement savings , but when the debt is gone , you 'll also have the monthly expense of loan payments gone , so you 'll be able to put away even more toward retirement at that time . The quicker you can get rid of the debt and start saving up for retirement , the better , so I would challenge you to push yourself a little bit to make it happen sooner . See if you can knock this out in 18 months by either reducing your expenses a little more or increasing your income a little bit .
As long as you have a legitimate signed agreement with the person who is legitimately renting and has a contract with the owners , you are in dealings with the person from whom you sublet the place . Therefore for all intents and purposes they are your landlord . You would provide their information , how much you are paying them , and so on - basically as if they are the landlord because legally they are . As for your scholarships that will make no difference . Since you renting , paying and its legit ( meaning not a favor ) . So you are good and covered to use that information .
By the time you 've earned the income , it is basically too late to decide who it belongs to [ * ] . If the assets belong to one person , income from those assets must be declared by that person . If you earn interest on a shared account , you must declare 50 % of it each . And so on . ( If you 're tempted to fudge it bear in mind that banks report to the ATO about interest paid and account ownership . ) I do n't think Family Tax Benefits are taxable income , but I do n't get them myself so I do n't know . What you can do is think about how you want things arranged going forward . That means making a prediction about who will have the higher income ; it sounds like that 's going to be you , and she will be working at most part time . Therefore she should hold anything that generates taxable income ( bank accounts etc ) and you should hold anything that generates losses ( negatively-geared investments , charitable deductions , etc ) . You could look into making a voluntary super contribution into her account which ( imbw ) will be deductible for you and get it into a lower-tax area . If you 're earning on the order of $ 30k per annum in interest you 're looking at paying $ 11500 tax on it if it 's in your name vs $ 5k if it 's in hers , so it 's not a moot point . $ 420k in cash is arguably quite a lot , and perhaps you want to look at putting some of it into a low-cost balanced managed fund , such as those from Vanguard . That will be somewhat more tax effective , though less stable . If you 're looking to buy a new house within a few years perhaps cash is the best place for it . [ * ] One kind-of exception is that if you have a family trust , the trust can decide at the end of the year to whom it will distribute its income . However , you still have to decide to establish a trust in advance .
Is it possible to pay off my balance more than once in a payment period in order to increase the amount I can spend in a payment period ? Yes you can pay off the balance more than once even if its not due . This will get applied to outstanding and you will be able to spend again . If so , is there a reason not to do this ? There is no harm . However note that it generally takes 2-3 days for the credit to be applied to the card . Hence factor this in before you make new purchases . I just got a credit card to start rebuilding my credit . Spending close to you credit limit does not help much ; compared to spending less than 10 % of your credit limit . So the sooner you get your limit on card increased the better .
Your company may pay your wife or your child a salary . There is unfortunately now a requirement for this salary to be reasonable . The conditions are : the person must perform the duty . If you want to pay your child to pick up paper clips from the floor of your office once a month , that 's fine , but the child needs to go in the office and do that - you ca n't pay them to do that over at the corporate office where they have never set foot . ( You also ca n't keep paying them while they 're away at university and clearly not doing their duties . ) the money must actually be paid to the person . This is less of an issue for an adult spouse , but it might be an issue for a child . They must actually be given the money . ( Most families I know deal with this by having the child 's money used to pay for field trips , skating lessons , clothes and so on so that you do n't end up with a sulky teen who has $ 200,000 in the bank . ) the work must be necessary for the business . Sending the company Christmas cards and keeping the books is necessary . So are marketing , trade show networking , and so on . Even redecorating the office . But looking after the company 's dog , or buying suits , shoes and ties for the business owner , or advising the business owner on personal travel decisions , are probably not . You have to be prepared to defend the job and it might help to have a written job description . under some circumstances CRA will disallow deducting salaries for a company if they do n't think it 's reasonable . ( This is new : when my children were toddlers we could have paid them thousands a month for an hour 's work had we wanted to . ) You can probably pay somewhat more than you would pay a stranger , but do n't try to pay someone 10 times the going rate for a job . ( In practice , I never paid my children more than their peers , because I thought the other staff would find that unfair . ) I recommend you think of something your wife can do for the company and start paying her to do it , at whatever rate you mutually agree on , which does n't have to be the same as she could earn elsewhere , as long as it does n't get ridiculous . $ 10,000 a month to manage the company twitter account ? If you like , and can show that some " social media consultants " are charging that . But again to be clear - she must really do it and the company must issue her paycheques , T4s , send in her CPP contributions ( she , like you , is likely EI exempt ) and so on . All completely above board .
One drawback worth keeping in mind when you are doing the math to figure out if this is worth it or not is that the interest on a student loan is tax deductible whereas the interest on the loan from your credit union is probably not .
You can only deduct medical expenses that exceed 7.5 % of your AGI for any given year . I do n't think that taxes are really a factor here .
If I were you , I would pay off the car loan today . You already have an excellent credit score . Practically speaking , there is no difference between a 750 score and an 850 score ; you are already eligible for the best loan rates . The fact that you are continuing to use 5 credit cards and that you still have a mortgage tells me that this car loan will have a negligible impact on your score ( and your life ) . By the way , if you had told me that your score was low , I would still tell you to pay off the loan , but for a different reason . In that case , I would tell you to stop worrying about your score , and start getting your financial life in order by eliminating debt . Take care of your finances by reducing the amount of debt in your life , and the score will take care of itself . I realize that the financial industry stresses the importance of a high score , but they are also the ones that sell you the debt necessary to obtain the high score .
The closer the contribution is to the December 31st date , the more profitable that specific contribution is , only taking into consideration the 5 % discount . On your case , the first contribution that beats your student loans interest rate is the August one , where you get about 9 % annual return , the remaining contributions go up from there .
No , you ca n't . The limits are contribution limits , not limits on the value of the investment . If you contributed $ 5,500 for 2015 , you are done contributing for that tax year . You are free to contribute another $ 5,500 for 2016 .
Generally , I would say that you should pay it off if you have the money available . Why pay interest if you have the money ? That is , of course , if your money can earn you more than the interest you pay ( which can happen if you got a very low APR for your car loan , but then you probably have excellent credit already and should n't care about the history of the loan on your report ) . Re the 7 years vs 2 years - to the best of my knowledge its not true , it will stay 7 years even if its closed during the first year .
Without more information about what tax bracket you are in , I can not make a recommendation about what your best option is , but here are a few things to consider : You can still contribute to the HSA until April 15th of next year if you have not contributed your allowable maximum ( for the current year that is the annual maximum / 12 * the number of months you were covered by a high-deductible plan ) . Contributions to the HSA are pre-tax and will reduce your tax liability , if you are in a higher tax bracket , the money saved in taxes may outweigh the maintenance fee . If the invested funds are returning better than inflation and the maintenance fees , it does not hurt you to leave the funds in place . Though you may not currently have a high deductible plan available , the health insurance market is moving in that direction and you may find yourself back in a high deductible plan before too long . ( I would wait at least until the next open enrollment to make my final decision . ) The deductible that qualifies is currently $ 1250 single or $ 2500 family If there are any qualified expenses , you can use those funds without incurring further tax and maintenance fees . ( For example if you could benefit from LASIK , that would be one way to empty the account .
It 's a good idea to have some emergency money so I would propose a plan that keeps some in your savings : Pay off the ones with 2 % in full . Take your time with the one that is at 0 % . You are n't losing any money on it . If the 0 % goes away , then consider paying it off , but by that time hopefully you have built up your savings a bit more . Also consider the ability to move the balance from the 2 % cards to the 0 % one , if that is possible .
Take another job . From a personal finance perspective this is the wrong reason to dip into a retirement account . You will lose so much ground towards actually retiring . Sure you wo n't be taxed , but you will be missing so much opportunity where that money wo n't be working for your retirement . The off-topic answer to take to the start-ups stackexchange site is : do n't quit your day job until your business plan is written out and you have an idea of where to get your startup capital .
The are several issues you need to consider : The rate is not guaranteed to be fixed . If you are even one day late the interest rate can jump to 24 % . Minimum Payment . Most credit cards expect you to pay 2 % per month . That may make you monthly payment to the credit card more than you loan payment There is no going back . If you want to switch back to a student loan you ca n't . This will be a cash advance/balance transfer . Understand all the fees associated with the transfer . Can you get a get a credit line big enough ? many people owe 10K to 50K in loans . Tax implications ? Forgiveness programs . Some employers will forgive parts of the loan , or if you work in public service for X years they forgive some of the loan . They will not view the credit card debt the same way .
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
Take a look at <URL> . This is your employer 's " bible " for withholding the correct amount of taxes from your paycheck . Most payroll systems use what this publication defines as the " Percentage Method " , because it requires less data to be entered into the system in order to correctly compute the amount of withholding . The computation method is as follows : Compute the employee 's gross pay for the pay period ( wages , tips , salary , commissions , etc ) . Subtract any " pre-tax deductions " ( med ins premiums , retirement , etc ) . This is the employee 's " pre-tax net pay " . Divide the amount one W-4 allowance is worth annually ( for 2012 , that 's $ 3800 ) by the number of pay periods in the tax year ( e.g 26 for bi-weekly ) . Multiply this by the number of allowances claimed on the W-4 and subtract it from the pre-tax net pay to determine the " pay subject to withholding " . Taxes are computed " piecewise " ; dollar amounts up to A are taxed at X % , and then dollar amounts between A and B are taxed at Y % , so total tax for B dollars is A * X + ( B-A ) * Y . Here is the table of rates for income earned in 2012 on a daily basis by a person filing as Single : To use this table , multiply all the dollar amounts by the number of business days in the pay period ( so do n't count more than 5 days per week even if you work 6 or 7 ) . Find the range in which your pay subject to withholding falls , subtract the " more than " amount from the range , multiply the remainder by the " W/H Pct " for that line , and add that amount to the " W/H Base " amount ( which is the cumulative amount of all lower tax brackets ) . This is the amount that will be withheld from your paycheck if you file Single or Married Filing Separately in the 2012 TY . If you file Married Filing Jointly , the amounts defining the tax brackets are slightly different ( there 's a pretty substantial " marriage advantage " right now ; withholding for a married person in average wage-earning range is half or less than a person filing Single . ) . In your particular example of $ 2500 biweekly ( 10 business days/pp ) , with no allowances and no pre-tax deductions : So , with zero allowances , your employer should be taking $ 451.70 out of your paycheck for federal withholding . Now , that does n't include PA state taxes of 3.07 % ( on $ 2500 that 's $ 76.75 ) , plus other state and federal taxes like SS ( 4.2 % on your gross income up to 106k ) , Medicare/Medicaid ( 1.45 % on your entire gross income ) , and SUTA ( .8 % on the first $ 8000 ) . But , you also do n't get a refund on those when you fill out the 1040 ( except if you claim deductions against state income tax , and in an exceptional case which requires you to have two jobs in one year , thus doubling up on SS and SUTA taxes beyond their wage bases ) . If you claim 3 allowances on your federal taxes , all other things being equal , your taxable wages are reduced by $ 438.45 , leaving you with taxable income of $ 2061.55 . Still in the 25 % bracket , but the wages subject to that level are only $ 619.55 , for taxes in the 25 % bracket of $ 154.89 , plus the withholding base of $ 187.20 equals total federal w/h of $ 342.09 per paycheck , a savings of about $ 110pp . Those allowances do not count towards other federal taxes , and I do not know if PA state taxes figure these in . It seems odd that you would owe that much in taxes with your withholding effectively maxed out , unless you have some other form of income that you 're reporting such as investment gains , child support/alimony , etc. . With nobody claiming you as a dependent and no dependents of your own , filing Single , and zero allowances on your W-4 resulting in the tax withholding above , a quick run of the 1040EZ form shows that the feds should owe YOU $ 1738.20 . The absolute worst-case scenario of you being claimed as a dependent by someone else should still get you a refund of $ 800 if you had your employer withhold the max . The numbers should only have gotten better if you 're married or have kids or other dependents , or have significant itemized deductions such as a home mortgage ( on which the interest and any property taxes are deductible ) . If you itemize , remember that state income tax , if any , is also deductible . I would consult a tax professional and have him double-check all your numbers . Unless there 's something significant you have n't told us , you should not have owed the gov ' t at the end of the year .
The above is very true , but the biggest bang for your buck can also be in the RESP , assuming you qualify for the grant of 20 % per year ... it 's hard to beat free money from the government ... in this account , your investment grows , and the growth and grant is taxed in the hands of the child when it is withdrawn . ( Normally , they dont have much income at this point , so pay little or no tax ) However , you do not get any income tax deduction or tax break at the time you make the deposit .
I did this , graduated , and did not explode . Based on this fact , I think you can do it too . There are no gotchas I am aware of .
Short answer : yes , you can put up collateral for someone else 's loan . The bank will be happy to take your money , give it to the other person , and return it to you on completion of the loan ( keeping the interest the security makes on the money market and the interest they 're charging the other person for themselves ) . If the above does n't sound very appealing ( you do n't see any benefit from your investment , and can be left holding the bag if your friend defaults on their loan ) , it really is n't a great way to spend your money . However , as assistance to someone else , it provides several advantages over directly transferring the money : The lendee gets a better rate than they normally would from the bank - Basically , from the bank 's perspective , the loan 's covered , so there 's very little risk of a default leaving them holding the bag . As such , they can typically offer rock-bottom , cost-of-capital rates . The lendee builds credit history - Since the lendee is making payments on a legitimate , structured loan to an entity that reports to the credit agencies , this is a very good way to help the lendee build good credit . You avoid the gift tax - If you lend over $ 13k , unless there 's a contract between the two of you stipulating a schedule of payments , it 's a " gift " as far as the IRS is concerned and you will be taxed on the amount above the exemption . EDIT : The $ 13k figure ( going up to $ 14k for 2013 ) is only the limit if the loan is not a loan , but in fact treated as a gift ( i.e. no reasonable prospect of repayment ) . For bona fide loans , there is no fixed upper limit on the amount you can loan , but the gift tax will be determined based on the difference between the interest charged and the " applicable federal rate " ( this rule is found in IRC Sec . 7872 ; check IRS.gov for monthly Rev. Proc . 's listing newest AFR 's ) . Last time I checked the short-term and medium-term rates were around 0.2 % , so if this still holds it 's an excellent time right now to " gift " your credit at little to no gift tax cost . One can even take advantage of this by making so-called " back-to-back " loans - taking out a HELOC at 4 % and subsequently loaning proceeds to your child at .2 % ( or whatever the current AFR ) , producing no taxable gift on the 3.8 % difference . The lendee may be able to deduct interest - depending on the type of loan ( maybe the $ 20k is the 15 % of an 80-15-5 mortgage ) , the interest paid on that loan can be tax-deductible . A personal loan between friends ? No way .
end question
start question
Legal requirements to sell design content , artwork and also freelance in India ?
There is no requirement to open a company . You can work as freelancer . You need to report income and file returns . If your income is more than exempt limit , pay taxes . Apply for a PAN number if you do n't have one yet .
Taxability does not depending on transfer of money to NRO . It depending on your tax status in India . Assuming you have spent more than 182 days outside India for the financial year 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 , you would be NRI . I am transferring money from my Maldives saving account to my Indian Saving account ( NRO ) . Will it be taxable in India ? Assuming you are NRI , this is not taxable . Any interest in NRO account is taxable in India . Again I am transferring the money from my Indian savings account to my dad 's Indian saving account . Will it be taxable ? This is not taxable to you . To your father it would be treated as Gift . As per Gift tax , this is not taxable to your father as well . If the amount is large , keep proper documentation of the transaction . Any income that is generated i.e. interest etc on this amount will be taxable to your father .
Traditionally , dealers and broker-dealers were in contact with the actual producers of a product or issuers of a security , selling it at the exchange on their behalf . Consumers would traditionally be on the buy side , of course . These days , anyone can enter the market on either side . Even if you do n't hold the security or product , you could sell it , and take on the risk of having to stock up on it by the delivery date in exchange for cash or other securities . On the other side , if you ca n't hold the product or security you could still buy it , taking on the risk of having to dispose of it somehow by delivery in exchange for cash or other securities . In either case you ( the sell-side ) take on risk and provide products/securities/cash . This is most commonly known as market making . Modern literature coins the terms liquidity taker ( buy-side ) and liquidity provider ( sell-side ) . Even more accurately , risk management literature would use the terms risk-taker ( sell-side ) and risk spreader or risk reducer ( buy side ) . This is quite illustrative in modern abstract markets . Take a market that allows for no offsetting or hedging because the product in question is abstract or theoretical , e.g. weather trading , volatility trading , inflation trading , etc. . There 's always one party trying to eliminate dependence on or correlation to the product ( the risk reducer , buy-side ) and the counterparty taking on their risk ( sell-side ) .
In India , does inheritance income need to be declared while filing returns ? No I understand that under Indian law , none of them are liable to pay any tax on this account . Yes there is no tax for any of them . But do they have to declare the income ? If so , is there a particular form for this ? No . But its advisable to keep a record of the said transaction and the purpose . i.e. it was a Gift from parent and gifted to 2 other siblings . This will make it easy if there is a scrutiny from the tax department .
It costs money for a mutual fund to accept your money . It does n't cost as much as it used to , but historically there has been , at a minimum , a modicum of record-keeping associated with it . As such , they will typically have a minimum amount of money they want you to add at a time . They do n't want to process 100 transfers of a nickel each ; that would be silly . So if you have a mutual fund with a " minimum initial investment " of $ 10,000 and a " minimum subsequent investment " of $ 100 , then that means that you can put in $ 10k to open it , and then deposit dollars in lots of 100 or more whenever you feel like it .
<URL> includes India in the list of countries where is possible to open an international account to invest in the US Stock Market . They just merged with Charles Schwab and they have a nice online trading platform . Stocks and ETFs are little bit pricey . . Get in touch with them to get more information .
Long term : Assuming you sold stock ABC through a registered stock exchange , e.g. , the Bombay Stock Exchange or the National Stock Exchange of India , and you paid the <URL> ( STT ) , you do n't owe any other taxes on the long term capital gain of INR 100 . If you buy stock BCD afterwards , this does n't affect the long term capital gains from the sale of stock ABC . Short term : If you sell the BCD stock ( or the ABC stock , or some combination therein ) within one year of its purchase , you 're required to pay short term capital gains on the net profit , in which case you pay the STT and the exchange fees and an additional flat rate of 15 % . The Income Tax Department of India has a <URL> titled " How to Compute your Capital Gains , " which goes into more detail about a variety of relevant situations .
While Victor 's answer might be correct for the broker 's he listed , you should know that the exchanges will usally define exactly ( on a per-asset , sometimes per-instrument base ) how marketable limit orders ( that 's what they 're called ) are treated . I would claim that in most ( all ? ) dealer markets the sell order would be filled at $ 1.00 ( provided the quantities suffice ) , because it was marketable upon entry , see : CME : <URL> NASDAQ Equities : Rule 4751 ( f ) ( 3 ) ( <URL> )
do i need to pay any tax on my profit of 15 lakh . Yes you need to pay capital gains tax . This transaction is not exempt as the gains arise in India and hence subject to tax even for NRI . If the property is held for less than 3 years , it would be short term gain and taxed according to your income tax slab . If held for more than 3 years , it would be long term gains at 10 % without indexation or 20 % with indexation . would i be able to transfer funds from my NRO to NRE account ? No . NRE Accounts credits are only on certain permissible transactions . Funds in general can not be transferred from NRO to NRE . If you had purchased the house by debiting your NRE / FCNR account , or taken a home loan and repaid this from NRE / FCNR account [ essentially from foreign remittance ] you can reptriate the same amount back . i.e. in you case if you had debited NRE account for 35 lacs you can get back 35 lacs in FCY . The profits can also be repatriated under an overall limit of 1 million USD . So you need to get the funds back to UK and then send it back into your NRE account . Refer the <URL>
Yes , retail investors can do this or something like this to hedge their accounts in the face of a major market shaker . The pitfalls of a sell-off and re-buy are costs , the wash sale rules , and timing of the re-buy . I do n't know how large your positions are but if you have a $ 10 trade commission that 's $ 200 to sell everything , and $ 200 to buy them all back . Granted $ 400 is only 2 % on a $ 20,000 portfolio . If any of the positions you sell is currently at a loss you 'd need to be out of the position ( and substantially similar positions ) for at least 30 days to book the loss and avoid wash sale rules . What if , inside the 30 day window , the stocks appreciate higher than they fell ? This is exactly what happened with the brexit vote . Everything fell in the tank then within a week the market was just fine . In a long term strategy , most retail investors are best off to simply let the money ride . You can hedge in other ways by buying some options or putting money in an index short fund or buying options on the index short fund . This way you 're not actually selling your positions but you 'll recoup some losses in the event of a loss . If you 're really concerned maybe you let your new contributions to the account sit in cash until after the event that 's concerning you .
A stipend received for the specific purposes of studies is not taxable . It is not clear from your question as to whether there are any strings attached to the money you receive . If its not for specific purpose , then its taxable as income and tax need to be paid accordingly . Please consult a CA and he can go through the specifics of your case .
I believe that article provides some good reasons , though it may be a bit light on technical details and there are likely other reasons a company would do it . Apparently much of its cash is held overseas , which would pare down the cash pile if brought back into the U.S. With their high credit rating ( and probably due to current market conditions ) a bond sale would be relatively cheap As long as they do not take on too much debt , it does not matter that debt is used to finance a buyback and/or dividend payments . The shares are bought back -- bringing down the number of shares on the market , thus boosting share price -- and/or shareholders are payed their dividends . So , if they can finance for less then they would lose to taxes by bringing the money home and they do not take on too much debt , this will likely work just fine and increase share holder value . Hopefully , someone else can provide some other reasonable scenarios . The bottom line is that it does not matter how they finance the share buybacks and/or dividend payments as long as they do not shoot themselves in the foot while doing it .
While she can certainly get an LLC or EIN , it is n't necessarily required or needed . She can file as a sole-proprietor on her ( or your joint ) taxes by filling out a schedule-C addition to the 1040 . Any income or losses will pass through to your existing income situation ( from W-2 's and such ) . The general requirement for filing as a business in this regard has nothing to do with any minimum income , revenue , or size . It is simply the intent to treat it as a business , and unlike a hobby , the overall intent to earn a profit eventually . If you 're currently reporting the 1099-MISC income , but not deducting the expenses , this would be a means for you to offset the income with the expenses you mentioned ( and possibly other legitimate ones ) . There is no " 2 % AGI " restriction for schedule-C .
Though it seems unintuitive , you should rationally ignore the past performance of this stock ( including the fact that it 's at its 52-week high ) and focus exclusively on factors that you believe should affect it moving forward . If you think it 's going to go up even further , more than the return on your other options for where to put the money , keep the stock . If you think it 's peaked and will be going down , now 's a good time to sell . To put it another way : if you did n't already have this stock , would you buy it today ? Your choice is just about the same : you can choose between a sum of cash equal to the present market value of the shares , OR the shares . Which do you think is worth more ? You also mentioned that you only have 10 stocks in the portfolio . Some are probably a larger percentage than others , and this distribution may be different than what you want in your portfolio . It may be time to do some <URL> , which could involve selling some shares where your position is too large ( as a % of your portfolio ) and using the proceeds toward one or more categories you 're not as invested in as you would like to be . This might be a good opportunity to increase the <URL> in your portfolio . If part of your reward and motivation for trading is emotional , not purely financial , you could sell now , mark it as a " win , " and move on to another opportunity . Trading based on emotions is not likely to optimize your future balance , but not everybody is into trading or money for money 's sake . What 's going to help you sleep better at night and help boost your quality of life ? If holding the stock will make you stress and regret a missed opportunity if it goes down , and selling it will make you feel happy and confident even if it still goes up more ( e.g. you interpret that as further confirming that you made a good pick in the first place ) , you might decide that the risk of suboptimal financial returns ( from emotion-based trading ) is acceptable . As CQM points out , you could also set a trailing sell order to activate only when the stock is a certain percentage or dollar amount below whatever it peaks at between the time you set the order and the time it fires/expires ; the activation price will rise with the stock and hold as it falls .
So My question is if I purchased the shares on 03-08-15 then will I get the dividend ? Yes if you purchase on 3-Aug , the shares will actually get credited to your account on 5-Aug and hence you will hold the shares on 6-Aug , the record date .
The risk that you do n't see it . It might end up in your spam folder , the email server might fail etc. . A physical note may have a delivery receipt ( courier company 's counterfoil or post details ) but it 's very difficult to ensure delivery with e-contract-notes . The risk that the note is modified before it gets to you . Physical contract notes are usually printed , and you are likely to notice modifications . E-notes can be changed ( many such notes are sent as HTML in a non-encrypted zip file ) . Many brokers do digitally sign notes nowadays but it is no longer required . But I think the regulation is a vestige of the past , and has mainly to do with 1 ) above , i.e. that they ca n't ensure delivery . There 's no standard contract note format , or even a standard delivery mechanism either .
You are looking for a one cancels the other order as described <URL> . Some online trading platforms allow this but I do n't believe all do . You should be able to call your broker and place this order with a real person ( in some cases the commission may be higher ) . You might also call the tech support number for the website and ask if they can walk you through placing the order online as some orders like this may not be intuitive .
Banks in India are required to credit the interest every 6 months . However certain banks to certain customers even credit it once in 3 months .
Dr. Sarwate 's answers the need for the W-8BEN , and that 's the answer you are looking for . However , the W-8BEN is only required if the US company is paying you directly ( i.e. you appear on the US company 's payroll accounts ) . This would be weird , in general , because US companies very quickly incorporate as a private entity in a foreign land . For example , I expect your " US Bank " to become a separate " US Bank India Private Limited " company in India and reap the various tax subsidies India offers to new companies being setup in India . I also expect you to get paid from and employed by " US Bank India Private Limited " instead of " US Bank " . In this general case , the requirement to fill the W-8BEN seems like a H.R. goof-up or paranoia . Yet , there could be some specific cases , where you , even as an employee of " US Bank India Private Limited " might get paid by " US Bank " . One of those specific cases could be bonuses . I came across this situation years ago when I got a monetary bonus for " Ship IT " and " Great People Great Performance " Awards and had to fill out the W-8BEN as the money was paid off a central fund in the U.S. account . In either case , filling out the W-8BEN seems to have been mandated by the H.R. and there is no US tax impact on you for filling it out . In case taxes are with-held , they would be in error , but you would have to do all the paperwork .
If you sell the investments with gains and repurchase them before moving , then the new cost basis should apply when selling later in the state that charges capital gains . As long as you have the paperwork to back it up , there should be no problems for you .
end question
start question
How can I tell what is " real " Motley Fool advice ?
The Fools have a range of advice from common-sense to speculative , aimed at different audiences ( one hopes ) . As always , do n't take anyone 's word for it ; think it through and decide whether the risk/reward ratio is really in your favor and how much you can afford to risk . They 're good on the basics , but the more advanced they get , the more risk there is that they 've got it wrong . That last is true of any advisor unless they have information that the rest of us do n't . You can learn some things from their explanations of their reasoning without necessarily taking their conclusions as gospel .
I think your first step is to be asking for an itemized billing as to exactly what services they claim to have rendered in the half hour that would result in that sort of charges . These days a lot of medical providers have outrageously high rates if you are not a member of a medical plan that has negotiated rates with the provider . I 've heard of instances where someone without insurance was being charged anywhere from 5-8 TIMES more than someone covered by a health plan would be billed . ( this seems to be the new tactic to make up for the expenses of covering those without coverage or a means to pay . Once you have some kind of accounting for the charges , if you ca n't get them to reduce it to a reasonable level , it might be time to contact a consumer advocate at a local paper or news station . If you were recommended specifically to this OT by your primary provider , I 'd also let them know about these insane charges , and you might want to suggest it would be in the best interests of their patients for them to find someone else ( with less egregious fee schedule ) to refer patients to for such services in the future . An important lesson here is to ask about charges and insurance coverage IN ADVANCE and do n't be afraid to shop around and check multiple providers . There is very little transparency of pricing in the healthcare industry at the moment , and prices for the very same procedure ( such as a consult , or medical imaging ) can vary widely ( e.g. three maybe even four digit percentage differences ) from one provider to another . You really need to be an informed consumer when it comes to health care these days to avoid being taken to the cleaners .
PEG is Price/Earnings to Growth . It is calculated as <URL> / <URL> . It represents how good a stock is to buy , factoring in growth of earnings , which P/E does not . Obviously when PEG is lower , a stock is more undervalued , which means that it is a better buy , and more likely to go up . Additional References : <URL> - The Motley Fool <URL> - Investopedia <URL> ( Allows screening by PEG )
It sounds like your current loan is in your name . As such , you are responsible for paying it . Not your family , you . It also sounds like the loan payments are regularly late . That 'll likely drastically affect your credit rating . Given what you 've said , it does n't surprise me that you were declined for a credit card . With the information on your credit report , you are a poor risk . Assuming your family is unable to pay loan on time ( and assuming you are n't willing to do so ) , you desperately need to get your name off the loan . This may mean selling the property and closing out the loan . This wo n't be enough to fix your credit , though . All that will do is stop making your credit worse . It 'll take a few years ( five years in Canada , not sure how many years in India ) until this loan stops showing up on your credit report . That 's why it is important to do this immediately . Now , can a bank give you a loan or a credit card despite bad credit ? Yes , absolutely . It all depends on how bad your credit is . If the bank is willing to do so , they 'll most likely charge a higher interest rate . But the bank may well decide not to give you a loan . After all , your credit report shows you do n't make your loan payments on time . You may also want to request your own copy of your credit report . You may have to pay for this , especially if you want to see your score . This could be valuable information if you are looking to fix your finances , and may be worth the cost . If you are sure it 's just this one loan , it may not be necessary . Good luck ! Edit : In India <URL> is the authority that maintains records . Getting to know you exact score will help . CIBIL offers it via TransUnion . The non-payment will keep appearing on your record for 3 years . As you do n't have any loans , get a credit card from a Bank where you have Fixed Deposits / PPF Account as it would be easier to get one . It can then help you build the credit .
<URL> : What I advise here is essentially identical to certain instructions I 've laid out in my will . One bequest provides that cash will be delivered to a trustee for my wife 's benefit ... My advice to the trustee could not be more simple : Put 10 % of the cash in short-term government bonds and 90 % in a very low-cost S&amp;P 500 index fund . ( I suggest Vanguard 's . ) I believe the trust 's long-term results from this policy will be superior to those attained by most investors ... Similarly from <URL> : Specifically , Buffett wants the trustee of his estate to put 10 percent of his wife 's cash inheritance in short-term government bonds and 90 percent in a low-cost S&amp;P index fund - and he tips his hat specifically to Bogle 's Vanguard in doing so . Says Buffett : " I believe the trust 's long-term results from this policy will be superior to those attained by most investors - whether pension funds , institutions or individuals . "
What you 're asking about is called a " distribution " when it comes to an LLC . It 's basically you paying yourself some or all of the proceeds of the business , depending on how you 're set up . You can pay yourself distributions on a regular schedule , say monthly , or you can do it at the end of the year . Whatever you do in this regard , what you take out as distributions is reported on your personal income tax as taxable income . LLCs in the U.S. use pass-through taxation ( unless you intentionally elect to have the LLC treated as a corporation for tax purposes , which some people do ) , so whatever the principals receive in distribution is personally taxable . Keep in mind that you 'll have to pay ALL of the taxes normally covered by an employer , such as self-employment tax ( usually about 15 % ) , social security tax , and so on . This is in addition to income tax , so remember that . I hope this helps . Good luck !
Look for people who have done business with them . If you do n't know anyone who has used their services , look for a company that at least has a brick and mortar branch in your area . Being able to deal with them face to face is a must . Have you checked with your local bank ?
Options trading at $ .01 have the same position limits as other options . Self regulatory organizations set the position limits for options which can be 250,000 contracts on one side of the book , as an example . Weeklies that are expiring soon have lots of liquidity while trading at $ 0.01 , you can see this in Bank of America stock if interested
If you are using T-mobile you do n't have to put $ 100 in each year to keep your minutes for a year . Once you spend $ 100 you get a year with any additional minutes you buy . Buying them $ 100 at a time is the cheapest way - but when you renew you can renew with only $ 50 or $ 30 and you have a year to use them from the last time you bought . I did this this year - only put $ 50 on each phone because we do n't use $ 100 worth in a year .
<URL> That 's the official site for getting your free yearly credit report ( one free per year from each of the 3 reporting bureaus ) .
Simplest way to answer this is that on margin , one is using borrowed assets and thus there are strings that come with doing that . Thus , if the amount of equity left gets too low , the broker has a legal obligation to close the position which can be selling purchased shares or buying back borrowed shares depending on if this is a long or short position respectively . <URL> has an example that they walk through as the call is where you are asked to either put in more money to the account or the position may be closed because the broker wants their money back . What is Maintenance Margin ? A maintenance margin is the required amount of securities an investor must hold in his account if he either purchases shares on margin , or if he sells shares short . If an investor 's margin balance falls below the set maintenance margin , the investor would then need to contribute additional funds to the account or liquidate stocks in the account to bring the account back to the initial margin requirement . This request is known as a margin call . As discussed previously , the Federal Reserve Board sets the initial margin requirement ( currently at 50 % ) . The Federal Reserve Board also sets the maintenance margin . The maintenance margin , the amount of equity an investor needs to hold in his account if he buys stock on margin or sells shares short , is 25 % . Keep in mind , however , that this 25 % level is the minimum level set , brokerage firms can increase , but not decrease this level as they desire . Example : Determining when a margin call would occur . Assume that an investor had purchased 500 shares of Newco 's stock . The shares were trading at $ 50 when the transaction was executed . The initial margin requirement on the account was 70 % and the maintenance margin is 30 % . Assume no transaction costs . Determine the price at which the investor will receive a margin call . Answer : Calculate the price as follows : $ 50 ( 1 - 0.70 ) = $ 21.43 1 - 0.30 A margin call would be received when the price of Newco 's stock fell below $ 21.43 per share . At that time , the investor would either need to deposit additional funds or liquidate shares to satisfy the initial margin requirement . Most people do n't want " Margin Calls " but stocks may move in unexpected ways and this is where there are mechanisms to limit losses , especially for the brokerage firm that wants to make as much money as possible . Cancel what trade ? No , the broker will close the position if the requirement is n't kept . Basically think of this as a way for the broker to get their money back if necessary while following federal rules . This would be selling in a long position or buying in a short sale situation . <URL> walks through an example where an e-mail would be sent and if the requirement is n't met then the position gets exited as per the law .
The price of real estate reacts to both demand for property and the rate of inflation and rate of income growth . Mortgage rates generally move as treasury rates move . See this paragraph : As we mentioned , intermediate term bonds and long-term mortgages ( more properly , Mortgage-Backed Securities , or MBS ) compete for the same fixed-income investor dollar . Treasury issues are 100 % guaranteed to be repaid , but mortgages are not ; therefore mortgages carry more risk of default or early repayment , which could potentially disturb the return on the investment . Therefore , mortgage rates must be priced higher to compensate for that risk . But how much higher are mortgages priced ? In a normal market , the average " spread " or markup above the 100 % secured Treasury is about 170 basis points , or 1.7 % . That markup -- the spread relationship -- widens and contracts with a range of market conditions , investor appetites and supply of available product -- as well as the presence of competing investment opportunities , like corporate bonds or domestic ( or foreign ) equity markets Source : <URL> And when the stock market crashes , investors tend to run to bonds and treasuries , which causes prices to go up and treasury yields to drop . Theoretically , this would also cause mortgage rates to drop , although most mortgage rates have a base price below which they can not fall . How easy is it to profit from recent stock market drops and at what frequency ? Incredibly difficult . The issue with your strategy is that you can not predict the bottom of the market ( at least us mortals ca n't ) . Just take the month of August for example . Stocks fell something like 15 % ? After the first 5-10 % drop , people felt that the bottom was there , so they rushed in , only to have the market fall even more . How will you know when to invest ? Even if the market falls by 50 % , and there 's a huge buying opportunity , and you increase the mortgage on your house , odds are your rates will increase because of the equity you take out . What if the market stays low for a very long time ? Will you be able to maintain mortgage payments ? Japan 's stock bubble popped in the early 90 's , and they 've had two lost decade 's now . Furthermore , there are issues of liquidity . What if you need more capital ? Can you just sell a property or can you buy now property to draw equity against ? What if the market is moving too fast for you to take advantage of . Do n't ignore transaction costs and taxes either . Overall , there are a lot of ways that your idea can go wrong , and not many ways it can go right .
The simple interest rate for an investment that costs $ 10,000 and returns $ 10,500 in 13 days is 5 % . To calculate the annual effective compound interest rate , the equation is where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . To calculate the annual effective continuously compounded interest rate , the equation is also where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . Continuous compounding is more precise and easier to manipulate but possibly not as intuitive .
If this is your money , and if you can - if asked - prove that you legally made it , there is no limit . You pay taxes on your income , so sending it into the world is tax free . Your citizenship is not relevant for that .
Sign up with a broker that is participating in the IPO . ( I do n't think that the date is even set yet , so it 's probably a little early to check . ) Read and follow their instructions . <URL> as a sample .
I have 2 PayPal accounts for this purpose ( with different email addresses ) . The first account is tied to my real email address , and has my real name , phone and home address associated with it . This account is also connected to my bank account and credit cards . For riskier transactions where I do n't need physical delivery ( or will accept delivery to my local post-office in cases where I do n't trust the seller with my personal details ) I use my secondary account , which has a secondary email address of mine , and a fake name and with a fake address , it is not connected to any external accounts . To send or receive money " anonymously " I first send money from my real account to my fake account ( inter-account transfers are free with PayPal ) , and then send the money to the seller from the fake account . This is in violation of PayPal 's terms of service , but I 've been using this system for the past 5 + years without any issues .
The Fools have a range of advice from common-sense to speculative , aimed at different audiences ( one hopes ) . As always , do n't take anyone 's word for it ; think it through and decide whether the risk/reward ratio is really in your favor and how much you can afford to risk . They 're good on the basics , but the more advanced they get , the more risk there is that they 've got it wrong . That last is true of any advisor unless they have information that the rest of us do n't . You can learn some things from their explanations of their reasoning without necessarily taking their conclusions as gospel .
Here are some ways my family saves money on our home insurance : We shopped around , then ended up purchasing our insurance through a group affinity program offered by our university alumni association . We combined our home and car insurance with that same insurer . They gave us a special combination discount . We installed a monitored home security system and monitored smoke alarm . Our insurer has an additional discount for these systems . We raised our deductibles . From time to time , we look around to make sure we 're still getting a good deal . Here are a couple of good articles on the subject : <URL> <URL> <URL> . Finally - make sure you get adequate coverage ! Make sure you consider your real insurance needs , and not just the cost of the insurance . If the worst happens , you 'll want good coverage with a good company .
You can buy Amazon gift cards and apply them to your account !
Yes , housing market indexes , which have associated options and futures , can be used as a hedge to cover exposure due to real-estate purchases . The most well-known ( only ? ) indexes are the <URL> . They are available for 12 or more regional real-estate markets in the U.S.A. . There is a website exclusively devoted to them , describing regional market coverage , index methodology and commentary , <URL> . Case-Schiller indexes can be used to accomplish what you asked for . You can use them as a type of insurance using the associated put options . They are listed and available for trading through the CME Group . You can get details from the <URL> , including contract size , price , historical volume and so forth . There are also <URL> , but I could not find any obvious way for an individual to invest in them .
end question
start question
What kind of investments should I have in my RRSP ?
I would highly recommend the book " four pillars of investing " by William J Bernstein . This is by far , in my humble opinion , the best text on asset allocation . In short , you will need a variety of equity investments , some bonds , and even some cash ( or money market funds ) . Assuming you are designing your retirement income via a combination of financial vehicles , I would put the least tax-efficient investments ( think fix-income products and other that are being treated the same way by CRA ) in RRSP and others in non-registered accounts ( you are only taxed on 50 % of your capital gains and can use past losses to reduce future tax payables ) . If you are just starting out , putting everything in RRSP is not a bad idea either . You can always transform your portfolio ( i.e. across multiple accounts ) as you have more money to invest . The key here is to make sure you have the right mix of asset classes that will best balance risk and return for you unique situation , and annual re-balance to make the ratio stays true . For example , if you can get to your retirement goals with a mere 3-5 % annualized growth in your portfolio - I would go 70 % bonds , 20 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , and 10 % cash/MMF now and shift it into heavier emphasis on bonds as your get closer to your retirement . If you need 5-9 % growth to retire , you would want to do 60 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , 30 % bonds , and 10 % cash/MMF ( I do n't advise 70 % equity right now , as the market is still volatile , and depends on who you listen to , this mess might go on for another 10 years or so , which is too close to your retirement ) . If you need more than 10 % of growth to get to your retirement , you will have to either re-assess your retirement goal or go all-in on equity - WARNING , just as my poker analogy suggests , you are gambling if you are doing all equity , but it 's the only way you can get > 10 % annualized return over 10-15 years timeframe . If any of the above sounds confusing to you even after you read the book , please do engage a fee-only financial planner ( i.e. not those that gets paid commission when they sell you something ) to help you map it out . Hope this helps ,
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
Assuming your investments are n't in any kind of tax-advantaged account ( like an IRA ) , they are generally not tracked and you indeed may pay more taxes . What will likely change , however , is your cost basis . You only pay tax on the difference between the value of the investment when you sell it and its value when you bought it . There is no rule that says once you sell an investment and pay taxes on the gain , you will never again pay any taxes on any other investments you then buy with that money . If you own some investment , and it increases in value , and then you sell it , you had a capital gain and owe taxes ( depending on your tax bracket , etc. ) . If you use the money to buy some other investment , and that increases in value , and then you sell it , you had another separate capital gain and again owe taxes . However , every time you sell , you only are subject to capital gains taxes on the gain , not the entire sale price . The value of the investment at the time you bought it is the cost basis . When you sell , you take the sale price and subtract the cost basis to find your gain , So suppose you bought $ 1000 worth of some ETF many years ago . It went up to $ 2000 and you sold it . You have $ 2000 in cash , but $ 1000 of that is your original money back , so your capital gain is $ 1000 and that is the amount on which you owe ( or may owe ) taxes . Suppose you pay 15 % tax on this , as you suggest ; that is $ 150 , leaving you with $ 1850 . Now suppose you buy another ETF with that . Your cost basis is now $ 1850 . Suppose the investment now increases in value again to $ 2000 . This time when you sell , you still have $ 2000 in cash , but this is now only $ 150 more than you paid , so you only owe capital gains taxes on that $ 150 . ( A 15 % tax on that would be $ 22.50 . ) In that example you had one capital gain of $ 1000 and a second of $ 150 and paid a total of $ 172.50 in taxes ( 150 + 22.50 ) . Suppose instead that you had held the original investment and it had increased in value to $ 2150 and you had then sold it . You would have a single capital gain of $ 1150 ( 2150 minus the original 1000 you paid ) . 15 % of this would be the same $ 172.50 you paid under the other arrangement . So in essence you pay the same taxes either way . ( This example is simplified , of course ; in reality , the rate you pay depends on your overall income , so you could pay more if you sell a lot in a single year , since it could push you into a higher tax bracket . ) So none of the money is " tax exempt " , but each time you sell , you " reset the counter " by paying tax on your gain , and each time you buy , you start a new counter on the basis of whatever you pay for the investment . Assuming you 're dealing with ordinary investment instruments like stocks and ETFs , this basis information is typically tracked by the bank or brokerage where you buy and sell them . Technically speaking it is your responsibility to track and report this when you sell an investment , and if you do complicated things like transfer securities from one brokerage to another you may have to do that yourself . In general , however , your bank/brokerage will keep track of cost basis information for you .
As long as you are disciplined about it , you can certainly have your emergency fund and other savings funds in one account . Multiple accounts may incur added costs , since you may not have the minimum balances to avoid the fees . Some banks provide tools or account features to help track separate " buckets " of funds within one account . One important principle for an emergency fund is liquidity . Those funds should be easily accessible , ideally without withdrawal penalties or transaction costs . For this reason , certificates of deposit ( CD ) or money market funds should be avoided for this purpose . Another important principle , for any savings fund , is capital preservation/safety . That money should not be held in risky assets . Depending on the purpose of the fund , you may consider other options beyond just a savings account . For example , you may consider placing funds for a house in CD ( s ) early on , before you are actually looking for the house . As you get closer to having enough for a down payment , you would shift that money into a savings account . One drawback of such an approach is the extra management that this requires on your part . A spreadsheet is a simple way to track these funds , though that requires more manual management and discipline to do that tracking . It also requires some knowledge of spreadsheets , but it provides you with flexibility so you can create a process that works well for you . Any accounting software should allow you to do this in some fashion with ( hopefully ) less effort than maintaining a spreadsheet , though you may have to do things in a certain way that may be awkward in some cases . Those are the basic principles that come to mind . I am sure others can provide more specific suggestions , like banks which allow you track buckets of funds or accounting software that can help you track the funds .
Usually the best advice is to find a company that offers IRAs containing low-cost index funds . <URL> is a noted example . Open a rollover IRA there and invest in funds the <URL> way . Pick an allocation by using the <URL> tag here to get the information you need about international stocks , domestic stocks , bonds , risk tolerance , and where you can find way more information . Rebalance that allocation every 12-18 months . Other than that , ignore the market . Unless you have the resources of a hedge fund manager , and maybe not even then , you wo n't be able to beat indexes like the S&amp;P 500 on their performance . Why should you go this route ? A little-touted fact about retirement investing is that one of the best ways to grow your money is to choose funds with the lowest expense ratio ( percentage of your earnings that go to the fund managers ) . See these questions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Putting money into a Roth IRA or 401 ( k ) will save you money if your taxes this year will be lower than your taxes in retirement . If you 're young and just starting your career , there 's a good chance of this in general . Even if you 're not , most people are anticipating tax increases in our nation 's future If you have a lot of expenses one year , e.g. for medical reasons , you may have to realize a significant amount of income that year , so having it be Roth money instead of regular can help avoid higher taxes . See also <URL>
All else being equal , No The interest on your debt is quite high and is probably not tax deductable . Any earnings on your investments would be taxed at about 30 % based on your income . To positively gear these you would need a return of about 19.5 % . The only investment I know that returns this is a roulette table but the risk profile is rather high . Renegotiate the interest rate - it is way too high , Pay the debt off as soon as you possibly can . Get proper financial advice before you considerer gearing for investing - it increases returns and risk .
Take another job . From a personal finance perspective this is the wrong reason to dip into a retirement account . You will lose so much ground towards actually retiring . Sure you wo n't be taxed , but you will be missing so much opportunity where that money wo n't be working for your retirement . The off-topic answer to take to the start-ups stackexchange site is : do n't quit your day job until your business plan is written out and you have an idea of where to get your startup capital .
The two biggest issues that impact your question I would say are diversification and fees . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and only invest it in two securities , then a 20 % drop in one security can have you lose 10 % of your initial investment which I would consider a very high risk scenario . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and invest it in 20 securities , then a 20 % drop in one security would only cause you to lose 1 % of your initial investment . So far this is looking better from a diversification point of view . But then the issue of fees comes in . If you paid $ 10 per trade to buy those 20 securities you already spent 2 % of your initial investment in fees ! Not to mention you will pay at least another $ 200 to get out of all those positions . No right answer - but those are the two factors I always try to balance .
I would talk to your HMRC tax office they do have guidance on this issue here <URL>
From the comments , it sounds like you have a technical background . So I 'm going to suggest you think of this as a technical problem : it 's an optimization problem , where the variable you 're trying to optimize for is total interest paid over the lifetime of the loans . Step 1 is making sure you 're using the credit available to you most efficiently . If there 's room in the credit limit for card # 1 to move more of your debt there , then definitely move your balances from the higher-interest cards . However , be careful ; some cards will have different interest rates for balance transfers or cash advances . And definitely do n't move any principal from Card # 3 until the 0 % interest rate expires . Pursuing a bank loan as part of step 1 is valid as well . You could start with the bank you use for your checking account today . Credit unions can be a good source of lower-interest loans as well . Ensure that you fully understand the terms and interest rates , particularly if they change . Just be careful about applying for them ; too many rejections can affect your credit rating negatively . You also mention in the comments that you 're paying " her " mortgage . I do n't know how the ownership is set up there , but either refinancing or taking out a home equity loan can be a way to consolidate debt . The interest rate on a home loan will almost assuredly be less than on your higher rate cards , especially taking the tax deduction into account . Step 2 is paying down the debt efficiently . The rule here is simple : Pay the minimum payment on all cards except for the one with the highest interest rate ; any money you have above the minimum payments should go into paying down the principal on that one . In your case , that 's Card # 2 . Good luck !
<URL> is a good starting point . Specifically , IFF all your credit cards are paid , and you made sure you 've got no outstanding liabilities ( that also accrues interest ) , <URL> might be a good place for 5-10 years timeframes . For grad school , I 'd probably look into cash ISA ( or local equivalent thereof ) - the rate of return is going to be lower , but having it in a separate account at least makes it mentally " out of sight - out of mind " , so you can make sure the money 's there WHEN you need it .
We started with our son about age 5 or so . He was at the time old enough to understand that you buy stuff using money . We do n't give allowance , rather we made up a job chart that he can put checks on , and give him a small amount for each job that he does . This is meant to enforce the idea of ' work and get paid , do n't work do n't get paid ' , and associate the concept of work and money . We also try to teach him the concept of giving , spending and saving , by having envelopes with those words on them and dividing the ' commission ' money between them . The give money is used for a charitable organization . The save money is used in a couple of ways - either to save for a large item that he wants , or to put into a savings account . The spend it money he is free to buy whatever he wants with . We got this plan from the <URL> , and it has been really good so far . The best thing about it is that when we are at the store and he sees something he wants , we can ask ' did you bring your money ? ' This keeps the begging down to a minimum and also helps us teach him to make a list of stuff he wants and can save for .
Simply put , the interest you 're paying on your loans is eating into any gains you have in the stock market . So , figure out how much you 're paying in interest and consider the feasibility of paying off some of the loan . Also figure in if you would be selling the stock at a profit or a loss . Generally speaking , a home loan is typically long-term , with a high principal . I believe the consensus is that it is typically not worth paying down extra on it . A car loan , though , is much shorter term , with a lower principal . It may be worth it to pay that down . I would certainly consider paying down the loan with 10 % interest , even without running any numbers . What about doing this without selling stock ? The reason I suggest that is that you should not sell the stock unless you truly need the money or for some material reason ( s ) related to the company , the market , etc. . ( Of course , one other reason would be to cut losses . ) Unless I was looking to sell some stock anyway , I would try other ways to come up with the money to pay down the highest interest loan , at least . If you are thinking of selling stock to pay down debt , definitely run the numbers .
<URL> FDIC currently insures up to $ 250,000 . ( I would have put that as a comment to Jeffery but it says it was locked . ) You do n't want to put all your eggs in one basket . If you shop around , and keep shopping all the time you can keep your accounts in a single place so long as that single place provides the best deal . Do n't have any loyalty to your banking institutions because they do n't have any loyalty to you . Also , having lots of accounts means you are familiar with lots of institutions , so you are likely better at shopping around . Things I consider . For fewer institutions : Best rates Package deals , getting bigger discounts Better negotiation because you have much business with that bank Ease of managing accounts and summary statements Fewer phone calls to make in the case of emergencies For more institutions : Less people know my full financial history Less danger if any single bank is compromised I can play banks offers off of each other ( price matching or beating by 5 % ) More and varied accounts helps with credit score ( I think )
You got it right . It is in part III of the form ( form 8829 , that is , in its current form ) . You pay 25 % tax on the amounts deducted as depreciation . That is if you sell at more that your current ( = post depreciation ) basis . Talk to your tax adviser about the details . He may be able to help you getting the old forms if you did n't keep the copies , you 'll definitely need them . You 'll have to request the copies from the IRS .
I think most financial planners or advisors would allocate zero to a gold-only fund . That 's probably the mainstream view . Metals investments have a lot of issues , more elaboration here : <URL> Also consider that metals ( and commodities , despite a recent drop ) are on a big run-up and lots of random people are saying they 're the thing to get in on . Usually this is a sign that you might want to wait a bit or at least buy gradually . The more mainstream way to go might be a commodities fund or all-asset fund . Some funds you could look at ( just examples , not recommendations ) might include several PIMCO funds including their commodity real return and all-asset ; Hussman Strategic Total Return ; diversified commodities index ETFs ; stuff like that has a lot of the theoretical benefits of gold but is n't as dependent on gold specifically . Another idea for you might be international bonds ( or stocks ) , if you feel US currency in particular is at risk . Oh , and REITs often come up as an inflation-resistant asset class . I personally use diversified funds rather than gold specifically , fwiw , mostly for the same reason I 'd buy a fund instead of individual stocks . 10 % - ish is probably about right to put into this kind of stuff , depending on your overall portfolio and goals . Pure commodities should probably be less than funds with some bonds , stocks , or REITs , because in principle commodities only track inflation over time , they do n't make money . The only way you make money on them is rebalancing out of them some when there 's a run up and back in when they 're down . So a portfolio with mostly commodities would suck long term . Some people feel gold 's virtue is tangibility rather than being a piece of paper , in an apocalypse-ish scenario , but if making that argument I think you need physical gold in your basement , not an ETF . Plus I 'd argue for guns , ammo , and food over gold in that scenario . :-)
As I 've had several jobs over the last decade , I 've typically run two pension plans - a private one which I use for consolidating all my previous pensions into and my current corporate one ( often does n't allow consolidating ) where I take advantage of the corporate benefits associated with it ( large corporate institutions typically match your own contributions or contribute a fixed percentage of salary as a perk ) . This allows me to not worry about the previous pension schemes I was a part of as they are in a single place . With the very last corporate job I had , I was not allowed to keep my pension pot under their scheme terms ( unlike with a few others where it was allowed to stay in the scheme but contributions were no longer allowed by either party ) and so when I left , I provided the details of my private pension plan and the pot was transferred into it by my employer . I 've since turned to contracting and consolidated all my previous pensions into a single private pension pot which I still contribute to every month .
A limit order is simply an order to buy at a maximum price or sell at a minimum price . For example , if the price is $ 100 and you want to sell if the price rises to $ 110 , then you can simply put a limit order to sell at $ 110 . The order will be placed in the market and when the price reaches $ 110 your order will be executed . If the price gaps at the open to $ 111 , then you would end up selling for $ 111 . In other words you will get a minimum of $ 110 per share . A stop limit order is where you put a stop loss order , which when it gets triggered , will place a limit order in the market for you . For example , you want to limit your losses by placing a stop loss order if the price drops to $ 90 . If you chose a market order with your stop loss as soon as the price hits $ 90 your stop loss would be triggered and the shares would sell at the next available price , usually at $ 90 , but could be less if the market gaps down past $ 90 . If on the other hand you placed a limit order at $ 89.50 with your stop loss , when the stop loss order gets triggered at $ 90 your limit order will be placed into the market to sell at $ 89.50 . So you would get a minimum of $ 89.50 per share , however , if the market gaps down below $ 89.50 your order will be placed onto the market but it wo n't sell , unless the price goes back to or above $ 89.50 . Hope this helps .
No . Ca n't understand why would you even think about it . The only thing to consider is the early sales fee , if its a NTF fund . Capital gains in the IRA/401k accounts are not taxed at all , so there 's no difference whether you hold it more than a year or not .
end question
start question
Should I sell my stocks when the stock hits a 52-week high in order to " Buy Low , Sell High " ?
Though it seems unintuitive , you should rationally ignore the past performance of this stock ( including the fact that it 's at its 52-week high ) and focus exclusively on factors that you believe should affect it moving forward . If you think it 's going to go up even further , more than the return on your other options for where to put the money , keep the stock . If you think it 's peaked and will be going down , now 's a good time to sell . To put it another way : if you did n't already have this stock , would you buy it today ? Your choice is just about the same : you can choose between a sum of cash equal to the present market value of the shares , OR the shares . Which do you think is worth more ? You also mentioned that you only have 10 stocks in the portfolio . Some are probably a larger percentage than others , and this distribution may be different than what you want in your portfolio . It may be time to do some <URL> , which could involve selling some shares where your position is too large ( as a % of your portfolio ) and using the proceeds toward one or more categories you 're not as invested in as you would like to be . This might be a good opportunity to increase the <URL> in your portfolio . If part of your reward and motivation for trading is emotional , not purely financial , you could sell now , mark it as a " win , " and move on to another opportunity . Trading based on emotions is not likely to optimize your future balance , but not everybody is into trading or money for money 's sake . What 's going to help you sleep better at night and help boost your quality of life ? If holding the stock will make you stress and regret a missed opportunity if it goes down , and selling it will make you feel happy and confident even if it still goes up more ( e.g. you interpret that as further confirming that you made a good pick in the first place ) , you might decide that the risk of suboptimal financial returns ( from emotion-based trading ) is acceptable . As CQM points out , you could also set a trailing sell order to activate only when the stock is a certain percentage or dollar amount below whatever it peaks at between the time you set the order and the time it fires/expires ; the activation price will rise with the stock and hold as it falls .
Some people are paranoid about day-to-day or month-to-month fluctuations in their credit scores , perhaps because they have signed up with various on-line services that monitor their credit scores and promptly report any changes . Suppose your credit limit is $ 5000 and you charge $ 3500 ( 70 % ) on the card each month for several months in a row and pay the full balance promptly every month ; maybe even on the day the monthly statement is issued . Yes , it may " look bad " to the reporting agencies and affect your credit score negatively since the agencies can not tell the difference between your actions and those of someone who charged $ 3500 once and is paying just enough each month to keep the balance at $ 3500 . But , your credit card company knows the difference between you and the other guy , and believe me , the company would far rather have you as a customer than the other guy . Since the credit-card company charges the merchants fees ( anywhere from 1 % to 5 % ) for processing the transactions , they earn far more from you than the other guy , and have comparatively little risk of having to turn over the account to a collection agency . You will likely get an increase in your credit limit without even asking for it in a few months . They want to keep you rather than lose you to a competing offer from another credit-card company . Of course , as in all cases , YMMV .
This is a very important question and you will find arguments from both sides , in part because it is still understudied . Ben Golub , Economics Ph.D. , from Stanford answers " <URL> " on Quoram quite well . This is an important but understudied question . There are few published academic studies on it , though several groups are working on the subject . You may be interested in the following papers : <URL> <URL> These document some of the phenomena that arise in high frequency trading , from a theoretical and an empirical perspective . However , a full equilibrium analysis of the unique features of high frequency trading is still missing , and until it is done , all our answers will be kind of tentative . Nevertheless , there are some obvious things one can say . Currently , high frequency traders are competing to locate physically closer and closer to exchanges , because milliseconds matter . Thus , large amounts of money are being spent to beat other market makers by tiny fractions of a second . Once many firms make these investments , the market looks like it did before in terms of competition and prices , but is a tiny bit faster . This investment is unlikely to be socially efficient : that is , the users of the market do n't actually benefit from the fact that their trades are executed half a millisecond faster -- certainly not enough to cover all the investment that went into making that happen . Some people who study the issue believe that high frequency trading ( HFT ) actually exacerbates market volatility ; some plots to this effect are found in the second paper linked above . There is certainly no widely accepted theory that says faster trading technology necessarily increases efficiency , and it is easy to think of algorithms that can make money ( at least in the short run ) but hurt most other investors , as well as the informational value of the market . One caution is that some of the complaining about HFT comes from those who lose when HFT gets better -- old-style market makers . They certainly have an incentive to make HFT out to be very bad . So some complaints about the predatory nature of HFT should be taken with a grain of salt . There is no strong economic consensus about the value of this activity . For what it 's worth , my personal impression is that this is more bad than good . I 'll post an update here as more definitive research comes out . You can also find a debate on <URL> from the Economist which gives both sides of the argument . In conclusion : Regardless of how you feel about HFT it seems like it 's here to stay and wo n't be leaving in the foreseeable future . So the debate will rage on ... Additional resource you may finding interesting : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There 's a concept in retail called a " loss leader " , and essentially it means that a store will sell an item intentionally at a loss as a way of bringing in business in the hope that while consumers are in the store taking advantage of the discounted item , they 'll make other purchases to make up for the loss and generate an overall profit . Many times it only makes sense to carry items that enhance the value of something else the store sells . Stores pay big money to study consumer behaviors and preferences in order to understand what items are natural fits for each other and the best ways to market them . A good example of what you 're talking about is the fact that many grocery stores carry private label products that sell for higher margins , and they 'll stock them alongside the name brands that cost much more . As a consequence ( and since consumers often do n't see a qualitative difference between store brands and name brands much of the time to rationalize spending more ) , the store 's own brands sell better . I hope this helps . Good luck !
You have to be the owner of record before the ex-dividend date , which is not the same day as the date the dividend is paid . This also implies that if you sell on or after the ex-dividend date , you 'll still get the dividend , even if you no longer own the stock . Keep in mind , also , that the quoted price of the stock ( and on any open orders that are not specifically marked as " do not reduce " ) on its ex-dividend date is dropped by the amount of the dividend , first thing in the morning before trading starts . If you happen to be the first order of the day , before market forces cause the price to move , you 'll end up with zero gain , since the dividend is built into the price , and you got the same value out of it -- the dividend in cash , and the remaining value in stock . As pointed out in the comments ( Thanks @Brick ) , you 'll still get a market price for your trade , but the price reduction will have had some impact on the first trade of the day . Source : <URL> Also , remember that the dividend yield is expressed in annualized terms . So a 3 % yield can only be fully realized by receiving all of the dividend payments made by the company for the year . You can , of course , forget about individual companies and just look for dividends to create your own effective yield over time . But , see the final point ... Finally , if you keep buying and selling just to play games with the dividends , you 're going to pay far more in transaction fees than you will earn in dividends . And , depending on your individual circumstances , you may end up paying more in capital gains taxes .
There 's no scenario that is best in all conditions . Let 's say you will lock in a profit of $ 10,000 immediately , and end up paying $ 2,000 in capital gains taxes . That 's money that otherwise would be growing inside your investment . The counterpoint , of course , is that transferring your investment to one with a lower cost means the proposed investment has a higher expected return . So , it 's going to depend on the expected return of each investment ( which includes the cost of each investment ) and the time frame of your investment . In the 2015 tax year , I sold mutual funds with a cost of approximately 0.35 % in order to switch to ETFs with a cost of approximately 0.06 % , locking in capital gains at the time . In hindsight , I 'm not sure that was worthwhile ; the capital gains are rather costly and my investment horizon is shorter than yours . But it 's at least debatable . If the cost difference or expected return is significantly larger , your decision may be easier than mine .
There two answers , either never or now ; which one is correct for you really depends on how you view the debt , and your discipline of paying it off . As mentioned by @Vitalik , your absolute cheapest alternative may well be to keep the debt in your line of credit and merely pay it off . The fact that it is a higher interest rate than your mortgage may help to focus your pay-back to as short a time as possible . If you pay back the debt over say a year , the overall paid interest may well be lower than if you had instead increased your mortgage . You could do a simple interest-rate calculation to determine if this is the case , using the difference between your credit-line rate and your mortgage rate . ( Also to take into account , is any tax implications - I understand that in the USA mortgage payments are somehow tax deductable ? ) If on the other hand , you do not plan to pay back the debt quickly , then you are certainly better off getting it moved to the lower-rate mortgage right away . Do be aware of a subtle trap , however : you may lull yourself into a false sense of security as to the absolute amount of money you can borrow and owe . If you were to again run up your credit line , because it is available , you may find yourself in a worse situation than you meant to . Doing this kind of credit-line to mortgage probably makes sense for durable assets , like a house addition or renovation , but I would personally recommend against it for even something like a car purchase , as you can end up paying more over time .
All else being equal , No The interest on your debt is quite high and is probably not tax deductable . Any earnings on your investments would be taxed at about 30 % based on your income . To positively gear these you would need a return of about 19.5 % . The only investment I know that returns this is a roulette table but the risk profile is rather high . Renegotiate the interest rate - it is way too high , Pay the debt off as soon as you possibly can . Get proper financial advice before you considerer gearing for investing - it increases returns and risk .
If you are planning this as a tax avoidance scheme , well it is not . The gains will be taxable in your hands and not in the Banks hands . Banks simply do n't cash out the stock at the same price , there will be quite a bit of both Lawyers and others ... so in the end you will end up paying more . The link indicates that one would pay back the loan via one 's own earnings . So if you have a stock worth USD 100 , you can pledge this to a Bank and get a max loan of USD 50 [ there are regulations that govern the max you can get against 100 ] . You want to buy something worth USD 50 . Option1 : Sell half the stock , get USD 50 , pay the captial gains tax on USD 50 . Option2 : Pledge the USD 100 stock to bank , get a loan of USD 50 . As you have not sold anything , there is no tax . Over a period pay the USD 50 loan via your own earnings . A high valued customer may be able to get away with a very low rate of intrest and very long repayment period . The tax implication to your legal hier would be from the time the stock come to his/her hands to the time she sold . So if the price increase to 150 by the time Mark dies , and its sold at 160 later , the gain is only of USD 10 . So rather than paying 30 % or whatever the applicable tax rate , it would be wise to pay an interest of few percentages .
Hope springs eternal in the human breast . No actively managed fund has beaten the indices over a long period of time , but over shorter periods , actively managed funds have beaten the indices quite often , sometimes quite spectacularly , and sometimes even for many years in a row . Examples from the past include Fidelity Magellan and Legg Mason Value Trust . So people buy actively managed funds hoping to cash in on such good performance . The difficulty is , of course , that many people do n't even think about investing in a fund until it is listed in some " Top Forty Funds of last year " compilation , and for many funds , they have already peaked , and new buyers are often disappointed . Some people who invested earlier plan on getting out of the fund before the fund falls flat on its face , and fewer even succeed in doing so . As to why 401k plans often have high-cost actively managed funds , there are several reasons . A most important one is that there are numerous companies that act as administrators of 401k programs and these companies put together package deals of 401k programs ( funds , administrative costs etc ) , and small employers perforce have to choose from one of these packages . Second , there are various rules that have come into existence since the first days of 401k ( and 403b ) programs such as the investment choices must include funds of different types , and actively managed funds ( large cap , small cap etc ) are one of the choices that must be offered . Gone are the days when the only choice was a variable annuity offered by the insurance company administering the 401k program . Finally , program participants also have hopes ( cf. opening sentence ) and used to demand that the 401k program offer a few actively managed funds , not just index funds .
It has little to do with money or finance . It 's basic neuroscience . When we get money , our brains release dopamine ( read Your Money and Your Brain ) , and receiving dividends is " getting money . " It feels good , so we 're more likely to do it again . What you often see are rationalizations because the above explanation sounds ... irrational , so many people want to make their behavior look more rational . Ceteris paribus a solid growth stock is as good as a solid company that pays dividends . In value-investing terms , dividend paying stocks may appear to give you an advantage in that you can keep the dividends in cash and buy when the price of the security is low ( " underpriced " ) . However , as you realize , you could just sell the growth stock at certain prices and the effect would be the same , assuming you 're using a free brokerage like Robin Hood . You can easily sell just a portion of the shares periodically to get a " stream of cash " like dividends . That presents no problem whatsoever , so this can not be the explanation to why some people think it is " smart " to be a dividend investor . Yes , if you 're using a brokerage like Robin Hood ( there may be others , but I think this is the only one right now ) , then you are right on .
Yes , there are situations where a stock is a bad buy in spite of a low PE . PE ratio tells you the current share price divided by the prior 4 quarters earnings per share . It does not consider : assets liabilities sustainability of the business competitive threats management competence management integrity cash flow dozens of other things crucial to an investment decision Imagine someone walked up to you and said , " Do you want to buy a piece of my business ? I 'll sell you 1 % of it for $ 1000 . Last year the business earned $ 25000 . " A quick calculation shows a PE of 4 [ $ 1000 / ( $ 25000 * .01 ) ] . Even though this PE is comparatively low , you would n't buy in without a lot more info . What kinds of things might you ask ? What kind business is it ? Who are your competitors ? Who is leading the business ? Can I trust the leaders ? What assets does it have ? What liabilities does it owe ? What will the business look like in 10 years ? 20 ? PE is one tiny component of an informed investment decision .
When evaluating a refinance , it all comes down to the payback . Refinancing costs money in closing costs . There are different reasons for refinancing , and they all have different methods for calculating payback . One reason to finance is to get a lower interest rate . When determining the payback time , you calculate how long it would take to recover your closing costs with the amount you save in interest . For example , if the closing costs are $ 2,000 , your payback time is 2 years if it takes 2 years to save that amount in interest with the new interest rate vs. the old one . The longer you hold the mortgage after you refinance , the more money you save in interest with the new rate . Generally , it does n't pay to refinance to a lower rate right before you sell , because you are n't holding the mortgage long enough to see the interest savings . You seem to be 3 years away from selling , so you might be able to see some savings here in the next three years . A second reason people refinance is to lower their monthly payment if they are having trouble paying it . I see you are considering switching from a 15 year to a 30 year ; is one of your goals to reduce your monthly payment ? By refinancing to a 30 year , you 'll be paying a lot of interest in your first few years of payments , extending the payback time of your lower interest rate . A third reason people refinance is to pull cash out of their equity . This applies to you as well . Since you are planning on using it to remodel the home you are trying to sell , you have to ask yourself if the renovations you are planning will payoff in the increased sale price of your home . Often , renovations do n't increase the value of their home as much as they cost . You do renovations because you will enjoy living in the renovated home , and you get some of your money back when you sell . But sometimes you can increase the value of your home by enough to cover the cost of the renovation . Talk to a real estate agent in your area to get their advice on how much the renovations you are talking about will increase the value of your home .
No logistics , just sign the title . Gifts under $ 14K ( as of 2015 ) ( total per year per person you give gifts to ) <URL> . If you 're not going to give any more cars to your sister this year - you 're good to go .
You should look into a <URL> : A home equity line of credit ( often called HELOC and pronounced HEE-lock ) is a loan in which the lender agrees to lend a maximum amount within an agreed period ( called a term ) , where the collateral is the borrower 's equity in his/her house . Because a home often is a consumer 's most valuable asset , many homeowners use home equity credit lines only for major items , such as education , home improvements , or medical bills , and choose not to use them for day-to-day expenses .
There are specific rules about how the gain is calculated when selling shares acquired at different times / prices in the same company . See the HMRC article <URL> : - in summary , you have to calculate the AVERAGE cost of acquisition and use that , so it makes no difference what order you sell them in . In addition , there are particular rules about shares acquired through various types of Employee Share Scheme . There is loads of information about all this on the HMRC website but if you are at all unsure , I think you would be better off consulting a tax accountant .
Yes , you pay interest , but the interest is applied to the price of the underlying shorted not the amount of cash proceeds of the sale since the underlying is what 's borrowed not underlying . The interest will increase the value of the short liability and will contribute to a diminishing maintenance margin . The cash is posted as collateral , so the net of interest charged by borrowing the underlying less the interest received from the cash collateral is what 's paid . Sometimes , when there is no demand to short a particular underlying , and a broker passes these rates through less a fee , the loan balance can actually decrease because the interest received from the cash collateral exceeds the interest paid on the underlying . While interest is charged and applied daily between brokers , the broker may charge this on nearly any basis they please .
The psychology of investing is fascinating . I buy a stock that 's out of favor at $ 10 , and sell half at a 400 % profit , $ 50/share . Then another half at $ 100 , figuring you do n't ever lose taking a profit . Now my Apple shares are over $ 500 , but I only have 100 . The $ 10 purchase was risky as Apple pre-iPod was n't a company that was guaranteed to survive . The only intelligent advice I can offer is to look at your holdings frequently , and ask , " would I buy this stock today given its fundamentals and price ? " If you would n't buy it , you should n't hold it . ( This is in contrast to the company ratings you see of buy , hold , sell . If I should hold it , but you should n't buy it to hold , that makes no sense to me . ) Disclaimer - I am old and have decided stock picking is tough . Most of our retirement accounts are indexed to the S&amp;P . Maybe 10 % is in individual stocks . The amount my stocks lag the index is less than my friends spend going to Vegas , so I 'm happy with the results . Most people would be far better off indexing than picking stocks .
Say we have stock XYZ that costs $ 50 this second . It does n't cost XYZ this second . The market price only reflects the last price at which the security traded . It does n't mean that if you 'll get that price when you place an order . The price you get if/when your order is filled is determined by the bid/ask spreads . Why would people sell below the current price , and not within the range of the bid/ask ? Someone may be willing to sell at an <URL> of $ 47 simply because that 's the best price they think they can sell the security for . Keep in mind that the " someone " may be a computer that determined that $ 47 is a reasonable ask price . Remember that bid/ask spreads are n't fixed , and there can be multiple bid/ask prices in a market at any given time . Your buy order was filled because at the time , someone else in the market was willing to sell you the security for the same price as your <URL> . Your respective buy/sell orders were matched based on their price ( and volume , conditional orders , etc ) . These questions may be helpful to you as well : <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , you say you 're a day trader . If that 's so , I strongly recommend getting a better grasp on the basics of market mechanics before committing any more capital . Trading without understanding how markets work at the most fundamental levels is a recipe for disaster .
The price of real estate reacts to both demand for property and the rate of inflation and rate of income growth . Mortgage rates generally move as treasury rates move . See this paragraph : As we mentioned , intermediate term bonds and long-term mortgages ( more properly , Mortgage-Backed Securities , or MBS ) compete for the same fixed-income investor dollar . Treasury issues are 100 % guaranteed to be repaid , but mortgages are not ; therefore mortgages carry more risk of default or early repayment , which could potentially disturb the return on the investment . Therefore , mortgage rates must be priced higher to compensate for that risk . But how much higher are mortgages priced ? In a normal market , the average " spread " or markup above the 100 % secured Treasury is about 170 basis points , or 1.7 % . That markup -- the spread relationship -- widens and contracts with a range of market conditions , investor appetites and supply of available product -- as well as the presence of competing investment opportunities , like corporate bonds or domestic ( or foreign ) equity markets Source : <URL> And when the stock market crashes , investors tend to run to bonds and treasuries , which causes prices to go up and treasury yields to drop . Theoretically , this would also cause mortgage rates to drop , although most mortgage rates have a base price below which they can not fall . How easy is it to profit from recent stock market drops and at what frequency ? Incredibly difficult . The issue with your strategy is that you can not predict the bottom of the market ( at least us mortals ca n't ) . Just take the month of August for example . Stocks fell something like 15 % ? After the first 5-10 % drop , people felt that the bottom was there , so they rushed in , only to have the market fall even more . How will you know when to invest ? Even if the market falls by 50 % , and there 's a huge buying opportunity , and you increase the mortgage on your house , odds are your rates will increase because of the equity you take out . What if the market stays low for a very long time ? Will you be able to maintain mortgage payments ? Japan 's stock bubble popped in the early 90 's , and they 've had two lost decade 's now . Furthermore , there are issues of liquidity . What if you need more capital ? Can you just sell a property or can you buy now property to draw equity against ? What if the market is moving too fast for you to take advantage of . Do n't ignore transaction costs and taxes either . Overall , there are a lot of ways that your idea can go wrong , and not many ways it can go right .
end question
start question
Does re-financing an FHA-insured mortgage incur the UFMIP again ?
When you got your original HUD backed mortgage there were three options : monthly , annual and upfront payments . The plan is designed to insure the lender of the mortgage against your default . The plan is not expected to cover the mortgage for 30 years . If you are in the early years of the mortgage , you may be owed a refund for the unused years . HUD has a <URL> discussing this , and a page to help you determine if they <URL> . If you are refinancing back into a HUD/FHA mortgage they will not give you a refund , but will roll the refund back into your new loan . FHA to FHA Refinances : When an FHA loan is refinanced , the refund from the old premium may be applied toward the up-front premium required for the new loan . Note : Depending on the year of the original loan the government has different lengths they used for coverage and refunds . I suggest you use the webpage to determine if you are due a refund , or a roll over .
Your coworker is mistaken . A higher credit line is fine especially if you have zero balance . If you happen to carry a balance at the time of mortgage application , then a higher credit line will mean you have a lower utilization . A lower utilization will mean that your credit score will be better than if you had a higher utilization . I know someone who just got a mortgage for 3.65 % with a DTI of 41 % , one late payment from two years ago and a short sale on their credit report . With what you are telling us , your mortgage application should not be a problem . Ensure you have adequate reserves ( 3-6 months of income ) either in your bank account or 401k .
An article linked from <URL> has some great advice , which I think are good rules of thumb . Do n't file a small claim . A claim should be at least $ 200 beyond your deductible before you file , and quite possibly further . Stick with one company . They are more likely to forgive than if you switch companies constantly . If your Homeowners and Auto insurance are through the same provider , they are less likely to want to lose you business Keep your home safe , such that you are less likely to need insurance claims . Put in burglary protection , trim trees , etc. . Also , at least my insurance gives a premium price for those who have n't filed a claim in 5 or more years for homeowners or rental insurance . See if you have a similar discount , will loose it , and guess how much that will cost you over 5 years . My rule of thumb : Your premium might go up quite a bit , possibly as much as triple , especially for a large claim . But , it is certainly worth it if you are going to get more than triple your premium through your claim . The worst case : Mortgage mandated insurance , which will be about triple your current cost .
If you 're a bit into the loan , then they 're probably hoping that you 'll take longer to pay off the loan . Is there a fee for refinancing the loan ? If so , be sure to take that into account . A smart way to approach it ( assuming that the fees are low or zero ) would be to continue making the same payment you had been before the refinance . Then you 'll end your loan ahead of schedule . ( This assumes that there 's no prepayment penalty . )
<URL> says that heirs have six months to clear the debt one way or the other . Heirs get an initial six months to deal with the loan payoff . And it 's to their advantage to move as quickly as possible . Until the loan is settled , interest on the balance and monthly insurance premiums will continue to eat into any remaining equity . <URL> also gives the six month number : Your heirs will work closely with the Servicer to ensure the loan is paid in full in a timely manner . While payment is due immediately , the heirs have six months to satisfy the debt . If they are selling the property and it is still on the market after six months , the heirs can contact the Loan Servicer and request a 90-day extension , subject to approval by HUD . One additional 90-day extension can be requested , again with HUD 's approval .
It depends on the bank 's underwriting policies . Most banks will use the price paid for LTV calculations . Later on , you usually have an opportunity to cancel PMI if your home 's value reaches a certain percentage over the initial valuation .
No , it will show on the LLC tax return ( <URL> ) , in the capital accounts ( schedules <URL> , L and M-2 ) , attributed to your partner .
The damage has already been done . Your address discrepancy will n't matter much as you have other credits which have your new addresses and are connected to your old address . So you addresses will have already been linked , without any breaks , to identify you as the same person . overdrawn , making irregular payments to counter the interest while I focus on higher priority debts The bank might have tried contacting you for payments , any letters or visits you received or know of . They might have tried to help you in your payments , you might have missed the chance . Many banks tend to have schemes to help people in difficulty . So do n't do that again and check your balance left in the account . They might have added fees . Never do that again , and always keep your bank in loop as they might be able to help . Contact the bank and explain your scenario , it is never too late . And check if they have n't sent it across to any debt collection agency , which is a very unhelpful scenario . If bailiffs turn up , which is n't pleasant , be prepared . There are some scum bailiffs who try to scam you money , against the law . Get some help in how to deal with them . Ask the citizen 's advice for help , if it comes to that . 1 . Tell the bank about my current address now , then tell them of my new address when I move Tell them now about your current address and when you move update them immediately . It does n't matter much in how frequently you change because you real staying time in an address is n't only collated from one credit , but all credits you have . 2 . Wait until I move , then just give them my new address This also might n't be a bad option . Change and then update them . Or call up the bank and ask for advice . But get in touch with the bank . Bailiff 's at your door is never ever good . Those idiots turn up at odd times , to catch you at your most vulnerable moment .
Interest means that the money on the accounts belongs to you , regardless of who 's name is the account titled to . For example , if you give money to someone ( non-US person , say , trying to avoid FBAR requirements ) and that person puts it in his account but will give you money whenever you ask for it - you have interest in that account . This is in order for people not to avoid FBAR requirements by putting their money into someone 's else accounts . Signature Authority means that although the account is not in your name , and the money on it is not your money - you have the right to access that account and perform operations on it . This usually happens when people are employees of a company and have signature authority over the company 's accounts , but it is also frequently the case for people having signature authority over the accounts that belong to their family members ( for example - your parents are not US persons , but they gave you access to their account because they do n't know how to work with the bank and you do - you have signature authority over the account ) . If you have your own account - you have both interest in it and signature authority over it .
So , this is n't always the case , but in the example provided the option is most likely in the money or near the money since the delta is nearly 1 - indicating that a $ 1 move in the underlying results in a $ 0.92 move in the option - this will happen when the expiration is very far out or the option is in the money . As expiration gets closer , movements in the underlying become more pronounced in the options because the probability of the stock price moving from its current position is lower . As the probability of the stock price moving goes down , the delta of in the money options approaches 100 , eventually reaching 100 at expiration . Another way to word this is that the premium on in the money options shrinks as expiration approaches and the intrinsic value of the option increases as percentage of total value so that movements in the underlying stock price become a greater influence on the option price - hence a greater delta . Again , if the option is out of the money , this is not the case .
Whether it is better or depends on : the tax costs or benefits of selling assets the possibly greater cost of your time in choosing which assets to sell etc , vs just directing new contributions to the underweight asset the friction of paying the costs ( fees , spread , brokerage etc ) of two transactions ( sell-buy ) My feeling is that generally you not sell but rather just redirect new contributions , unless that is not going to bring you back in balance within a reasonable time frame , or there is some other compelling reason to change . As you 're currently contributing 7.5 % of your portfolio value every year it seems likely that you will be able to rebalance using contributions alone . ( If you were older and were contributing only 1 % of your portfolio value every year that would probably not be enough . ) One compelling reason to change would be a tax benefit . Another is that you may have decided you no longer like one investment provider ( eg high fees , whatever ) and you are going to take the opportunity of moving away from them to rebalance . You could say that if any asset class is more than say 10 % higher than it should be , you will sell ; otherwise just redirect new contributions .
When buying a house or piece of property , does the Title Company work for the buyer , the seller , or are they neutral , just playing the part of administering the deal ? It depends on what you mean by title company . In one case they are the company handling the closing . Some call this a settlement company , but many have the word Title in the name . In my real estate transactions the buyer has paid for the service a part of the settlement costs . Who is picked is a negotiation between buyer and seller . On a day I sold one house and bought another having them back-to-back in the same office was the most convenient . The Title company agent may be a lawyer , but at least in Virginia they do n't have to be . But even if they are a lawyer they do n't represent either party . They are making sure all the proper forms and money is ending up in the correct place at the correct times . They will facilitate the transaction , but they do n't protect either side from a bad deal . The other use of the term Title company may mean Title Insurance Company . They are a company that insure the lender , in case there is a problem with the ownership of the property . The lender will make you buy the Title insurance policy . They will dictate who to use , and the term of the policy . The buyer of the property can also buy an optional policy to protect themselves if the title is bad . The lender does n't require you to purchase this policy . Title policies protect the lender and you when the ownership is not clear . The ex-spouse may claim ownership , the homeowners association may claim back dues owed , a construction company may claim that they were never paid . In some cases the issue could have occurred years before your transaction , and were missed during the title search . Without a policy the ownership could revert to the previous party . The lender wants their policy to make sure they do n't lose their money , you want a policy to make sure you do n't lose the equity and the roof over your head .
Indians appear to have a cultural preference for gold , but it 's not really a reasonable retirement plan all by itself . Retirement should optimally be a set of diversified investments across as many asset classes as is possible and gold has no diversification whatsoever . Nor does it necessarily have a good expected return . And it tends to be highly volitile . And there is a rather large cost to transacting ( the selling price and buying price differ by a relatively large amount ) . Gold is a fine addition to your retirement savings , but it should n't be the whole thing or anywhere near it . The government saving schemes you mention seem to just barely keep up with inflation or perhaps be below current Indian inflation . They are kind of like a savings account but you are locked in to an interest rate . This means you will benefit if inflation or interest rates fall after your purchase but be harmed if they subsequently rise . Probably a good thing to add to a portfolio , but it should n't be the whole thing . Alternatively , just use a real savings account . A defined benefit pension plan like the one you mentioned will take on more profitable investments and hopefully be able to meet its obligations to you . If it does , this is likely a reasonable option . In that case your main worry would be inflation , since the benefits are defined in terms of nominal currency . You should also worry about the solvency of the organization . Many pensions in the US ( especially government pensions ) are underfunded and some people will almost certainly not get their full payments . Private pensions in the US are much better but not perfect . Not sure how responsible pension managers in India are on average . I notice you did n't mention any options that invest directly in risky assets , like indian stocks or international stocks . Like a mutual fund , for example . That is where a large portion of most people 's investment should probably be and it will be largely unaffected by inflation , unlike the pension and government saving schemes you mention . You can also think out of the box . Maybe invest in some real estate , for example . At the end of the day , your best bet is to invest in lots of different things . You do n't know what kind of risks the future holds , so by having investments in lots of things you minimize your worst case scenario .
There are circumstances under which you do n't have to pay the penalty : You die and the account is paid to your beneficiary You become disabled You withdraw an amount less than is allowable as a medical expense deduction You begin substantially equal periodic payments Your withdrawal is related to a qualified domestic relations order ( QDRO ) Your withdrawal is used to pay qualified higher education expenses Your withdrawal is used for a qualified " first-home " purchase ( up to $ 10,000 ) ( <URL> ) Unless it is one of those circumstances , your 10 % penalty is on the pre-tax amount of the withdrawal that is subject to income tax ( so if some of it is not , then there is no penalty on that amount ) . Some states may also impose additional penalties . More <URL> . Note that the other penalty you pay is a hidden one - the lost opportunity cost of letting that money stay in place and grow until age 591/2 or later .
If you 've got shares in a company that 's filed for U.S. Chapter 11 bankruptcy , that sucks , it really does . I 've been there before and you may lose your entire investment . If there 's still a market for your shares and you can sell them , you may want to just accept the loss and get out with what you can . However , shares of bankrupt companies are often delisted once bankrupt , since the company no longer meets minimum exchange listing requirements . If you 're stuck holding shares with no market , you could lose everything -- but that 's not always the case : Chapter 11 is n't total and final bankruptcy where the company ceases to exist after liquidation of its assets to pay off its debts . Rather , Chapter 11 is a section of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code that permits a company to attempt to reorganize ( or renegotiate ) its debt obligations . During Chapter 11 reorganization , a company can negotiate with its creditors for a better arrangement . They typically need to demonstrate to creditors that without the burden of the heavy debt , they could achieve profitability . Such reorganization often involves creditors taking complete or majority ownership of the company when it emerges from Chapter 11 through a debt-for-equity swap . That 's why you , as an investor before the bankruptcy , are very likely to get nothing or just pennies on the dollar . Any equity you may be left holding will be considerably diluted in value . It 's rare that shareholders before a Chapter 11 bankruptcy still retain any equity after the company emerges from Chapter 11 , but it is possible . But it varies from bankruptcy to bankruptcy and it can be complex as montyloree pointed out . Investopedia has a great article : <URL> . Here 's an excerpt : If a company you 've got a stake in files for bankruptcy , chances are you 'll get back pennies to the dollar . Different bankruptcy proceedings or filings generally give some idea as to whether the average investor will get back all or a portion of his investment , but even that is determined on a case-by-case basis . There is also a pecking order of creditors and investors of who get paid back first , second and last . In this article , we 'll explain what happens when a public company files for protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws and how it affects investors . [ ... ] How It Affects Investors [ ... ] When your company goes bankrupt , there is a very good chance you will not get back the full value of your investment . In fact , there is a chance you wo n't get anything back . [ ... ] Wikipedia has a good article on Chapter 11 bankruptcy at <URL> .
I agree with the answer by @Michael that this number does n't exist . It 's hard to see what use it would have and it would be difficult to track . I 'm writing a separate answer because I also disagree with the premise of your question : Individual shares of stock have never to my knowledge had such a number . Your comment about numbers on stock certificates identifies the certificate document , which will generally represent multiple shares of stock . That number no more identifies a single share of stock than the serial number on a $ 10 bill identifies any one of the ten dollars it represents . Even at the " collective " unit of $ 10 , when the bill is eventually replaced with a new one , the new bill has a new number . No continuity .
Depending on the student loan , this may be improper usage of the funds . I know the federal loans I received years ago were to be used for education related expenses only . I would imagine most , if not all , student loans would have the same restrictions . Bonus Answer : You must have earned income to contribute to an IRA ( e.g. money received from working ( see <URL> for details ) ) . So , if your earmarked money is coming from savings only , then you would not be eligible to contribute . As far as whether you can designate student loans for the educational expenses and then used earned income for an IRA I would imagine that is fine . However , I have not found any documentation to support my assumption .
You would have to do the specific math with your specific situation to be certain , but - generally speaking it would be smarter to use extra money to pay down the principle faster on the original loan . Your ability to refinance in the future at a more favorable rate is an unknowable uncertainty , subject to a number of conditions ( only some of which you can control ) . But what is almost always a complete certainty is that paying off a debt is , on net , better than putting the same money into a low-yield savings account .
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
end question
start question
What is the difference between a ' trader ' and a ' stockbroker ' ?
The traditional role of a stockbroker is to arrange for the buying and selling of stock by finding buyers and sellers at an agreed upon price . The broker does not purchase the stock for himself but merely arranges for the stock to be traded . A trader is one who purchases stock with the hope of selling it for a gain . The trader will use a broker to help with the purchase and sale of a stock .
Most people elect to have these deducted pre-tax because it reduces your taxable income . That mean that it is pulled from your income before social security , medicare , state and federal taxes are calculated . The reduction of pre-tax income can also make other deductions possible if it keeps your annual taxable income low enough , this really only impacts a few people , and would be considered a bonus benefit . Bottom line for most people pre-tax payments results in a higher take home pay . The only reason I could find to make your health insurance premiums post-tax would be because that keeps your wages high when calculating monthly income for social security benefits . This would only impact people who were either near retirement , or were close to not making enough money in a quarter to potentially not get credit for the quarter . One other distinction was that if the premiums were made pre-tax you can only change your insurance if you had a life event . Post-tax premiums did allow you to make insurance changes without needing a life event . Again this would only impact a small number of people .
Many of these products are similar in nature and often depend on the issuing bank . Cashier 's Check Are checks signed and guaranteed by the bank . This means the funds are coming from the bank instead of your account -- which usually means they immediately take the money from your account . This is usually the most secure of the options and usually does n't have many restrictions . Certified Check Are checks signed by the customer , certified by the bank that you have enough funds and that your signature is genuine . Usually , but not always - the bank will set aside the funds . Bank Draft Similar to a certified check but the bank will set aside the funds until the bank draft is used . Generally used in transactions involving larger sums . Money order It 's a payment order similar to a certified check ; however , it needs to be prepaid . Also money orders may have maximum face values allowed .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
Whenever a website mentions Hypothetical Growth of $ 100 , $ 1,000 , or $ 10,000 , it assumes that that investor himself will reinvest the dividend . This is true whether you look at Morningstar or Financial Times . Unless the website does not have dividend data , e.g. Google Finance . If you want to compare the account value after withdrawing dividends : Since the Income class pays dividends annually , there will be 1 jumps per year . For example , the 2013 dividend payment : and the 2014 dividend payment :
In broad terms , Child Benefit is a universal benefit paid to anyone earning up to # 50-60 ,000 a year * whilst Child Tax credit is primarily means tested ( for no/low incomes really ) . Both are payable provided the young person is under 20 ( not 18 ) and is in full time non advanced ( up to " A level " standard ) education or certain types of training . Child benefit is reduced in stages if someone in the household has a taxable income over # 50,000 , down to 0 at # 60,000 . Child Tax Credit is being phased out and replaced as a part of " Universal Credit " . It 's quite specific and a little complex so read the official sites : - Child Benefit <URL> - Child Tax Credit <URL> Another site worth trying is <URL> ( not a government site ) but it will point out any benefits , etc that you may be ' entitled to ' from all the available government resources . Do n't be afraid to call HMRC for advice - they 're pretty good when they eventaully answer ! And Citizens Advice and Money Advice Service are free resources that are always handy . Google gave me these as good results : <URL> and <URL> from the well-respected Which ? site . I must end with a disclaimer though : everyone 's situations are different and the benefits system here in the UK is very complex at times . Always seek proper advice and use this type of forum merely as a pointer to the ball-park area . Best of luck .
Coins are legal tender . They 're authorized by governments and have a face value . Rounds are simply coined pieces of metal minted by private manufacturers . They do not have any face value and are not legal tender . Rounds are used to own metal , they have no value other than the value of the metal in them . Any premium you pay over the price of the metal is the mint 's profit . Coins are also used as bulions ( i.e. : to own metal and create profits for the government ) , but many times coins have limited issue and become valuable because of the rarity , specific issues with a specific coin ( mistakes , impurities , exclusive designs ) , etc. . So they also may have some numismatic value ( depends on the specific coin ) . Coins also have the assurance of quality of the authorizing government ( and fakes are dealt with by the law as forgery of coins is illegal and is a crime ) , rounds however do not enjoy such protection , and any one can mint them ( only copyright/trademark protections apply , where the enforcement is by the owner and not the government ) . Re the advantages - coins ( if you pick the right ones ... ) appreciate much more than the metal . However , this is mostly in hindsight , and most of the " bulion " coins do not appreciate significantly beyond the price of the metal unless there 's something else significant about them ( first year of issue , high quality certification , etc ) . Rounds on the other hand are cheaper ( 1 oz round will be significantly cheaper than 1 oz coin ) , and monitor more closely the price of the metal . It is unlikely for rounds to significantly deviate from the spot price ( although this does happen occasionally , for specific designs or if a mint goes out of business ) .
" The SEC considers a day trade to be any trade that is opened and closed within the same trading day , and considers a day trader to be any trader that completes 4 or more day trades within 5 business days . " If so they would label you day trader and in the US you are required to have at least $ 25K in your account . Maybe that 's why they require you to add more money to your account ? See more at <URL> and <URL> .
Simplest way to answer this is that on margin , one is using borrowed assets and thus there are strings that come with doing that . Thus , if the amount of equity left gets too low , the broker has a legal obligation to close the position which can be selling purchased shares or buying back borrowed shares depending on if this is a long or short position respectively . <URL> has an example that they walk through as the call is where you are asked to either put in more money to the account or the position may be closed because the broker wants their money back . What is Maintenance Margin ? A maintenance margin is the required amount of securities an investor must hold in his account if he either purchases shares on margin , or if he sells shares short . If an investor 's margin balance falls below the set maintenance margin , the investor would then need to contribute additional funds to the account or liquidate stocks in the account to bring the account back to the initial margin requirement . This request is known as a margin call . As discussed previously , the Federal Reserve Board sets the initial margin requirement ( currently at 50 % ) . The Federal Reserve Board also sets the maintenance margin . The maintenance margin , the amount of equity an investor needs to hold in his account if he buys stock on margin or sells shares short , is 25 % . Keep in mind , however , that this 25 % level is the minimum level set , brokerage firms can increase , but not decrease this level as they desire . Example : Determining when a margin call would occur . Assume that an investor had purchased 500 shares of Newco 's stock . The shares were trading at $ 50 when the transaction was executed . The initial margin requirement on the account was 70 % and the maintenance margin is 30 % . Assume no transaction costs . Determine the price at which the investor will receive a margin call . Answer : Calculate the price as follows : $ 50 ( 1 - 0.70 ) = $ 21.43 1 - 0.30 A margin call would be received when the price of Newco 's stock fell below $ 21.43 per share . At that time , the investor would either need to deposit additional funds or liquidate shares to satisfy the initial margin requirement . Most people do n't want " Margin Calls " but stocks may move in unexpected ways and this is where there are mechanisms to limit losses , especially for the brokerage firm that wants to make as much money as possible . Cancel what trade ? No , the broker will close the position if the requirement is n't kept . Basically think of this as a way for the broker to get their money back if necessary while following federal rules . This would be selling in a long position or buying in a short sale situation . <URL> walks through an example where an e-mail would be sent and if the requirement is n't met then the position gets exited as per the law .
Tradable is a much broader term than marketable . For example , some programmers/developers sell their services online , hence programming is a tradable service . However , it is not a security nor is it marketable since it can not readily be converted to cash . All marketable securities are , by definition , tradable .
Think about what the words actually mean . The tax meaning is pretty much the same . Deductions are adjustments to your income for meeting certain conditions . Subtractions usually mean that your tax liability is reduced by a certain amount , but reduce your income below zero . Exemptions are like deductions , but are n't based on you meeting a condition . Usually for income tax , this is income that by its nature is disqualified from consideration . For example , income earned while living in another state is generally ( but not always ) exempt from taxation . Or taxes paid to another governmental body .
outstanding shares are the shares ( regular shares ) that are still tradable in the market , where the firm in question is listed . The term is primarily used to distinguish from shares held in treasury ( treasury stock ) , which have been bought back ( buybacks ) from the market and are n't currently tradable in the market . <URL> .
In a well-managed company , employees bring more dollars to their employers than the employers pay the employees ( salary and benefits ) . Employees trade potential reward for security ( a regular paycheck ) . Employers take on the risk of needing to meet payroll and profit from the company 's income , minus expenses . The potential rewards are much higher as an employer ( self or otherwise ) , so the ones that do make it do quite well . But this is also consistent with your other statement that the reverse is not true ; the risk of self-employment is high , and many self-employed people do n't become millionaires .
Under the assumption that rates are same , the interest paid monthly would generate greater P+I . However I doubt in practice if if the TFSA Savings rate would be higher than GIC . Typically more the lockin , more the interest .
Are you allowed to have two personal current accounts with a debit card attached to each one ? Yes , you may have as many current accounts you want , but you should ask why should I have more than one . It is cumbersome and time consuming to keep track of ongoing incoming credits and outgoing debits . Open to bank fraud too , if you are n't careful . If yes , can a sole trader in the UK use the second personal account for business transactions ? Yes , but no payments to the business . At the end of the year you file you P11D , even if you have a business bank account . You would need to justify the expenses by keeping the bills and stuff . As it will be a personal account , you have to little more careful , not to mix personal and business expenses . If you are allowed to use a second personal account for business transactions , then why would someone choose to open a business bank account , where you have to pay ? What are the benefits ? First of all no company will pay into you personal account , for any transactions , they need to pay you . They will only pay to an account registered with the business , with whom they are dealing with . Benefits are you have your business expenses sorted out in one account and personal expenses in other . Pure business expenses comes out of the business account , rather than from your personal purse , keeps the accounts smooth . No need to sort out expenses at the end of each quarter or at the end of each month .
365D is represented on a daily chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each day the market is open . It represents 365 trading days . So if your SMA is based on the closed prices it would represent the average daily close price over the previous 365 days . As each day progresses the previous 365th day will be dropped off the average and the previous day will be added to it . To represent one year in a SMA you would need to include 52 weeks x 5 trading days per week minus any public holidays that fall on a trading day . 52W is represented on a weekly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each week . So the Open would be the opening price on Monday morning , the Close would be the closing price on Friday afternoon , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the week . If your SMA is based on the weekly close price it would represent the average weekly close ( the close price for each Friday afternoon unless the Friday is a public holiday then the close price on Thursday afternoon ) over the previous 52 weeks . 12M is represented on a monthly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each month . So the Open would be the opening price on the morning of the 1st of the months ( or first trading day of the month ) , the Close would be the closing price on the afternoon of the last trading day of the month , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the month . If your SMA is based on the monthly close price it would represent the average monthly close ( the close price for the afternoon of the last trading day of the month ) over the previous 12 months . 1Y is represented on a yearly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each year . So the Open would be the opening price on the morning of the first trading day of the year , the Close would be the closing price on the afternoon of the last trading day of the year , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the year . Note : a 1Y SMA on a yearly chart would simply represent the close price for each year , so the get an effective SMA on a yearly chart you would need to use a longer period than 1Y . So 52W , 12M and 1Y all represent one year on a chart , however , 365D would actually represent more than a year because there are less than 365 trading days in a year . Also , to use both monthly or yearly charts you would want to be looking at very long term time periods , or else the chart would not tell you very much and be better represented in either weekly or daily time frames . For Monthly charts you would want to be looking at least at 5 years plus of data , and for yearly charts at least 50 to 100 years or more of data .
I would say that there is no real difference . Asset management companies that is part of large banking groups usually seat in separate entities and operate independently from the rest of the bank . Assuming proper procedures ( and regulators usually check that ) are in place they will not share information with the rest of the bank and their assets are clearly segregated from the rest of the bank . They have the same fiduciary duties as an independent AM and are probably using the broker/dealer services of other banks as well as their parent . Reputation is a key issue for banks and conflict of interests are usually managed properly . Independence also comes and goes . The corporate history of Neuberger Berman is a good example . Neuberger Berman was once an independent asset manager . In 2003 , it merged with Lehman Brothers , thus loosing its independence . When Lehman went bankrupt in 2008 , NB did not join its parent company in bankruptcy and did not lose the assets of its clients . The company continued to operate until it was acquired by the management . Finally it is mostly a question of marketing and positioning . Independent asset manager will put their independence forward as a key selling point and as a proof that they can not be conflicted . Asset management arms sitting within a larger group , will insist on the fact that they offer a on turnkey solution for all that matters to an investor
CDs are from banks . Share Certificates are from Credit Unions . Otherwise they are essentially the same . For CDs you are paid interest . For Share Certificates you are paid dividends . The CDs at a traditional bank are insured by the FDIC . The Share Certificates are insured by the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) .
Speculation means putting your money on a hunch that some event may occur , depending on current circumstances and some future circumstances . So either you win huge or lose a lot . Investment is a conscious decision made on well defined research and grounded on good reasons i.e. economy , industry , company reports etc. . Here is a link on wikipedia with more details on <URL> .
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae both do essentially the same thing : they repackage mortgages into investments ( aka mortgage-backed securities ) and sell those securities to investors . If a mortgage borrower defaults , it affects the value of the securities . Ginnie Mae performs the same function as Freddie and Fannie , except they only deal with government-insured mortgages , such as those backed by the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) . Example : If a FHA mortgage borrower defaults , FHA and Ginnie Mae continue to make payments to those who invested in Ginnie Mae securities . Due to the subprime crisis , Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae 's securities lost a lot of value . Those who invested in Freddie/Fannie bonds lost money . Both corporations had to be taken over by the government and placed in a conservatorship . Ginnie Mae 's securities , on the other hand , remained relatively stable due to the government guarantee on them . Investors in Ginnie Mae bonds did not lose money . However , if any Ginnie Mae mortgage borrowers default , the extra payments the government has to make to investors in order to compensate comes out of tax dollars , thus everyone is affected in a way .
end question
start question
What is the best cross-platform GPL personal finance tool available ?
There is n't one . I have n't been very happy with anything I 've tried , commercial or open source . I 've used Quicken for a while and been fairly happy with the user experience , but I hate the idea of their sunset policy ( forced upgrades ) and using proprietary format for the data files . Note that I would n't mind using proprietary and/or commercial software if it used a format that allowed me to easily migrate to another application . And no , QIF/OFX/CSV does n't count . What I 've found works well for me is to use <URL> for pulling transactions from my accounts and categorizing them . I then export the transaction history as a CSV file and convert it to QIF/OFX using <URL> , and then import the resulting file into <URL> . The hardest part is using categories ( Mint.com ) and accounts ( GnuCash ) properly . Not perfect by any means , but certainly better than manually exporting transactions from each account .
In general , if you are paying taxes in Canada , you are eligible to contribute to an RRSP . That said , it still may not be appropriate . If you are only here two years , then you will not accumulate much contribution room . Then once you move away , your options become more limited . Most brokerage accounts in theory require you to be resident in Canada in order to issue instructions - an odd holdover I agree , and one that with internet connections may well not be easy to enforce . I presume you are looking for some kind of tax shelter ? I would suggest you look at the new-ish TFSA ( Tax Free Savings Accounts ) as a possible alternative . Even more specifically , if you are making enough that any of these matter , then consulting with a tax accountant is likely money well spent . They will be much better able to advise you about your specific situation with respect to accounting for taxes between your home country and your temporary status in Canada . Good Luck
You can open a <URL> , here 's an example . You can deposit up to 50K ( including the personal cap and the profit sharing/matching portion ) .
Indians appear to have a cultural preference for gold , but it 's not really a reasonable retirement plan all by itself . Retirement should optimally be a set of diversified investments across as many asset classes as is possible and gold has no diversification whatsoever . Nor does it necessarily have a good expected return . And it tends to be highly volitile . And there is a rather large cost to transacting ( the selling price and buying price differ by a relatively large amount ) . Gold is a fine addition to your retirement savings , but it should n't be the whole thing or anywhere near it . The government saving schemes you mention seem to just barely keep up with inflation or perhaps be below current Indian inflation . They are kind of like a savings account but you are locked in to an interest rate . This means you will benefit if inflation or interest rates fall after your purchase but be harmed if they subsequently rise . Probably a good thing to add to a portfolio , but it should n't be the whole thing . Alternatively , just use a real savings account . A defined benefit pension plan like the one you mentioned will take on more profitable investments and hopefully be able to meet its obligations to you . If it does , this is likely a reasonable option . In that case your main worry would be inflation , since the benefits are defined in terms of nominal currency . You should also worry about the solvency of the organization . Many pensions in the US ( especially government pensions ) are underfunded and some people will almost certainly not get their full payments . Private pensions in the US are much better but not perfect . Not sure how responsible pension managers in India are on average . I notice you did n't mention any options that invest directly in risky assets , like indian stocks or international stocks . Like a mutual fund , for example . That is where a large portion of most people 's investment should probably be and it will be largely unaffected by inflation , unlike the pension and government saving schemes you mention . You can also think out of the box . Maybe invest in some real estate , for example . At the end of the day , your best bet is to invest in lots of different things . You do n't know what kind of risks the future holds , so by having investments in lots of things you minimize your worst case scenario .
Look into the asset allocations of lifecycle funds offered by a company like Vanguard . <URL> allows you to select your current age and find a fund based on that . You could pick a fund , like the <URL> , and examine its allocation in the Portfolio &amp; Management tab . For this fund , the breakdown is : Then , look at the allocation of the underlying funds that comprise the lifecycle fund , in the same tab . Look at each of those funds and see what asset allocation they use , and that should give you a rough idea for an age-based allocation . For example , the <URL> page has a sector breakdown , so if you wanted to get very fine-grained with your allocation , you could . ( You 're probably much better off investing in the index fund , low-cost ETFs , or the lifecycle fund itself , however ; it 'll be much cheaper ) . Doing this for several lifecycle funds should be a good start . Keep in mind , however , that these funds are rebalanced as the target date approaches , so if you 're following the allocation of some particular funds , you 'll have to rebalance as well . If you really want an age-based allocation that you do n't have to think about , invest in a lifecycle fund directly . You 'll probably pay a lower expense ratio than if you invested in a whole slew of funds directory , and it 's less work for someone who is n't comfortable managing their portfolio themselves . Furthermore , with Vanguard , the expense ratios are already fairly low . This is only one example of an allocation , however ; your tolerance of risk , age , etc. may affect what allocation you 're willing to accept . Full disclosure : Part of my Roth IRA is invested in the Target 2055 fund I used as an example above , and another part uses a similar rebalancing strategy to the one I used above , but with <URL> funds , which have higher minimum investments but lower expense ratios .
I do n't think it really matters , my understanding is that as a sole trader there is no distinction between your personal and business tax affairs . The distinction between your personal and business account is mainly for your own personal benefit to make it easier to differentiate between " wages " and retained earnings . If you want to maintain this distinction with regard to tax then you need to somehow differentiate between tax paid on your " wage " and tax paid on retained earnings . You could then either make two payments , or pay from either and transfer the difference from the other . Either way , it 's just a matter of perspective rather than something with a physical difference .
I 'm a mathematician , not an accountant . But my feeling has been that the distinction between Asset and Liability is mainly a sign convention , and comes from a wish to avoid negative numbers . Suppose you take out a loan for $ 1000 and deposit the proceeds in your bank account . Under normal accounting conventions , your bank account is an Asset and the loan is a Liability . After the loan , Bank has a balance of 1000 and Loan has a balance of 1000 . You can compute your net worth by adding all Assets and subtracting all Liabilities ( so in this case your net worth remains 0 ) . If you treat Loan as an Asset account , then after taking out the loan , you should give it a balance of -1000 . Under this convention , you have lots of negative numbers to deal with everywhere , which I suspect early accountants would have found inconvenient . The Asset/Liability convention means you only need to deal with negative numbers in unusual situations ( overdrawn bank account , overpaid loan , etc ) . Likewise , in theory you could treat Expense accounts as negative Income . But I 'm not sure why you feel the need to reinvent the wheel by " simplifying " double-entry accounting like this . The standard conventions are not that complicated , and their major advantage is that they 're standard : other people will be able to understand your books if they ever need to . ( Say you want to hire somebody to do your taxes at some point : if your books are kept in your own idiosyncratic system , their job will be at best error-prone and at worst impossible . ) It 's a bit like a proposal to simplify English spelling : shur , a sistum waar yu rit lik this mit bee simplur in sum abstrakt sens , but if nobudee els can reed it eezulee , it izunt ackshyualee veree yusful .
They 're not negotiating trade rates for you , you set the trade rates in your order . What they might have is a slightly slower system , delivering your orders a second later than the competition would . If that 's critical to you then you should look at that , otherwise look at their fees , customer support and research aids because that 's where the broker value is .
Social Lending may help you qualify for a loan , but does n't necessarily provide better rates . You have to shop around to get the best rates , this is a market as any other , so do n't expect one place to be consistently below the market - either the market will move , or the place will move eventually , everyone wants to earn the most for the buck .
While Warren Buffet does hold nearly 100 % of his wealth in BRK , he does have a personal retirement account of a few million USD at last disclosure . Individual accounts are not for public consumption ; however , he has revealed that he invests in a similar manner as he did as managing partner of Buffett Partnership , Ltd. and its predecessors , in far smaller companies than the current BRK holdings .
Having an EIN does not make the LLC a corporation -- your business can have an EIN even when treated like a sole proprietorship . An EIN is required to have a Individual 401 ( k ) , for example . <URL> You would need to file a <URL> with the IRS to elect S Corporation status . If you do n't do that , you 're still treated as a disregarded LLC . Whether or not you should make the election is another question .
I 've been taking all the cheap fixed-rate debt banks would like to give me lately . What Rate ? In practice I find the only way I get a low-enough rate on a longish-term fixed-rate loan is to use collateral . That is , auto loans and home loans . I have n't seen any personal loans with a low enough fixed rate . ( Student loans may be cheap enough if they 're subsidized , I guess . ) Here 's how I think of the rate : If you look at <URL> , the average annual return on 80 % bonds / 20 % stocks is 6.7 % , with worst year -10.3 % . That 's a nominal return not a real return . If you subtract taxes , say your marginal rate ( the rate you pay on your last dollar of income ) is 28 % federal plus 5 % state , then if you have no tax deferral the 6.7 % becomes about a 4.5 % average , with reasonably wide variation year-by-year . ( You can mess with this , e.g. using tax-exempt bonds and tax-efficient stock funds , etc. which would be wise , but for deciding whether to take out debt , getting too detailed is false precision . The 6.7 % number is only an average to begin with , not a guarantee . ) Say you pay 4.5 % on a loan , and you keep your money in very conservative investments , that 's probably at least going to break even if you give it some years . It certainly can and sometimes will fail to break even over some time periods , but the risk of outright catastrophe is low . If your annual loss is 10 % , that sucks , but it should not ruin your life . In practice , I got a home loan for close to 4.5 % which is tax-deductible so a lower effective rate , and got an auto loan subsidized by the manufacturer for under 3 % . Both are long-term fixed-rate loans with collateral . So I was happy to borrow this money paying about a 3 % effective rate in both cases , well below my rough threshold of 4.5 % . I do not , however , run a credit card balance ; even though one of my cards is only 7 % right now , 7 % is too high , and it 's a floating rate that could rise . The personal loans I 've seen have too-high rates also . Thoughts One of the reasons I take the loans is liquidity . If I have $ N in cash and then owe relatively small payments over 6 years , then that is a lot more flexible than not having cash and owning a car . If not having cash and owning the car outright ever becomes desirable , then pay off the loan , and be in that situation overnight . The other direction is often impossible . Another reason I take the loans is that it makes budgeting easier . I like to think of major assets ( house , car , etc. ) in terms of monthly cost . Then you can see how much more you need per year ( and how much more you have to save for retirement ) if you spend a certain amount on the car . Of course if you pay cash you can still compute the monthly cost , but it 's just a little easier if it 's actually a monthly cost , in my opinion . If you need a credit history , getting a loan can give you one , though a credit card is probably a simpler way . I have a fair amount of " wiggle room " ( solid emergency fund , no trouble covering the debt payments ) . The more trouble you 'll have with the payments , the less you should be buying anything at all probably , let alone with debt . You probably should n't be considering your emergency fund in this calculation . That is , do n't consider using the emergency fund instead of getting the loan , and do n't consider putting the emergency fund in anything higher yield than cash . Borrowing money at a low rate puts you in a good place if interest rates rise ( or , probably saying the same thing , if inflation increases ) . Borrowing money ( even at a low rate ) would be bad if we get deflation . Thankfully that has n't happened in general since the Depression , but it is happening now in housing specifically , and I 'm sure you 've seen on the news how it 's bad for those who borrowed money to buy . Borrowing money at a floating rate is a risky idea . You lose in both inflation and deflation scenarios . I 'm not sure the pay-cash-or-get-the-loan decision is all that important in the scheme of things . It is n't likely to be make-or-break on your overall financial situation . So you may as well do what makes you feel comfortable . For me , extra flexibility makes me comfortable , but for others , debt makes them uncomfortable . Both are valid . My discussion here assumes you have the option to pay cash . If you could n't pay cash , you have nothing to invest , and no cash to keep in order to increase flexibility . Overall I think using debt as a tool requires that you 're already financially stable , such that the debt is n't creating a risky situation . The debt should be used to increase liquidity and flexibility and perhaps boost investment returns a bit . Where you 're likely to get into trouble is using debt to increase your purchasing power , especially if you use debt to buy things that are n't necessary . For me the primary reason to use debt is flexibility and liquidity , and the secondary " bonus " reason is a possible spread between the debt rate and investment returns .
It 's <URL> in Canada ( <URL> ) . Note that if you are getting a refund , rather than paying more taxes , you can be as late as you want without penalty .
I 'm sorry , but there really is no silver bullet and the answer is fairly obvious . You need to find people who will extend credit to you , even if the terms are n't ideal , and establish a record of always paying your bills on time . It may take a while , but eventually your credit will start to recover .
From the Press release titled <URL> The $ 50 note , which was also unveiled in June , will be issued in March 2012 . The $ 20 note will begin circulating in late 2012 , followed by the $ 10 and $ 5 notes by the end of 2013 . Detailed images of the notes and information on their designs will be released on their official unveiling dates .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
Your Personal Investment Performance or PIP can also be described as the Internal Rate of Return . I found an explanation of <URL> on the Governments TSP page ; the TSP is the government version of a 401K . Personal Investment Performance ( PIP ) -- The rate of return earned by your entire account during the 12-month period ending on the date indicated on your annual statement or on your Account Balance page of the TSP website . The PIP is a time-weighted return that has been calculated using a modified-Deitz method ( a method used by many financial institutions and an industry standard ) . The PIP adjusts for the distorting effects of cash flows into or out of your account . It is an estimate ; therefore , your PIP may not be the same as the 12-month performance of the TSP funds , which are time-weighted returns . Let 's pretend that you had a starting value of $ 10,000 and an ending value of $ 20,000 . The simple calculation would imply that you doubled your money . But you and the government put in a total of $ 7,000 . To calculate the return do you base it on the 10K or the 17K ? The answer is that you need to know when the deposits were made . With deposits every 2 weeks , this become very complex . So do n't expect to be able to calculate it without a lot of work . Keep in mind it is just there to tell you how your investments did .
There is a service <URL> through which you can send money from UK banks to EUR bank accounts in the EU for a 1 GBP fee ( much cheaper then about 25 GBP for a SWIFT transfer ) . You send them a UK national GBP transfer to their UK HSBC account , and they send the equivalent amount in EUR from their Irish EUR bank account to your EUR account - for example in Germany . What is best , is that they use bare mid-market ForEx exchange rates , without any markup on the GBP to EUR exchange rate , which is usually in the range of 2 % to 5 % in banks , so you do n't lose anything on the exchange rate .
You do n't have many choices I am afraid . There is really only one option available to you at present and that is Folio-fn . It is a secondary market for p2p lending where you can buy and sell notes from both Lending Club and Prosper . Links are below : Lending Club : <URL> Prosper : <URL> Good luck . Hopefully Ohio will be added to the list of states that offer p2p lending some time soon .
PEG is Price/Earnings to Growth . It is calculated as <URL> / <URL> . It represents how good a stock is to buy , factoring in growth of earnings , which P/E does not . Obviously when PEG is lower , a stock is more undervalued , which means that it is a better buy , and more likely to go up . Additional References : <URL> - The Motley Fool <URL> - Investopedia <URL> ( Allows screening by PEG )
end question
start question
Is there a no-fee way for Americans to send electronic payments to American small businesses ?
I think something you might want to look at is a service called <URL> . They charge $ 0.25 per transaction , and are free for transactions under $ 10 .
It will depend somewhat on the rules where the company is formed , and perhaps how much you 're talking about investing . I do n't know about Canada , but when I 've formed businesses in the U.S. , I 've been advised to invest some of the money as an equity investment , and the bulk of the remainder as a loan . You say " more shares " , so it sounds like you 've already invested some money and need to inject another round . If you make a loan to the company , make sure everything is done at arm 's length -- you 'll need to wear the hat of the Company Management and sign a contract with yourself , use a market-based interest rate , and make sure the company is paying you back with interest . An alternative which may work if you expect cash flow soon is to pay for certain expenses personally and then submit an expense report to the company , which will pay you back . Overall , a quick consultation with your accountant should be a relatively inexpensive way to get the best answer for your specific circumstances .
<URL> is a great resource to help you understand what you can and ca n't deduct . It 's not a yes/no question , it depends on the exact company use , other use , and contemporaneous record keeping .
First thing to know about investing is that you make money by taking risks . That means the possibility of losing money as well as making it . There are low risk investments that pretty much always pay out but they do n't earn much . Making $ 200 a month on $ 10,000 is about 26 % per year . That 's vastly more than you are going to earn on low risk assets . If you want that kind of return , you can invest in a diversified portfolio of equities through an equity index fund . Some years you may make 26 % or more . Other years you may make nothing or lose that much or more . On average you may earn maybe 7 % -10 % hopefully . Overall , investing is a game of making money over long horizons . It 's very useful for putting away your $ 10k now and having hopefully more than that when it comes time to buy a house or retire or something some years into the future . You have to accept that you might also end up with less than $ 10K in the end , but you are more likely to make money than to use it . What you describe does n't seem like a possible situation . In developed markets , you ca n't reliably expect anything close to the return you desire from assets that are unlikely to lose you money . It might be time to re-evaluate your financial goals . Do you want spending money now , or do you want to invest for use down the road ?
The bank wo n't let you because : Differences in required account features -- Business accounts have different features ( many of them legal features ) that are required by businesses . For instances : Do you want to be able to deposit cheques that are written out to your business name ? You need a business account for that . Your business could be sold . Then it would n't be your business , so it would n't make sense to put the business account under your personal name . The bank account and the cash it holds is a business asset and should be owned by the business , so when the business is sold the account goes with it . This is especially the case for a corporation that has shareholders , and not a sole proprietorship . For a business , you could also , in theory , assign other people as signing authorities on the business account ( e.g. your corporate treasurer ) , and the individuals performing that role could change over time . Business accounts allow for this kind of use . Market segmentation -- The bank has consciously undertaken to segment their product offerings in order to maximize their profit . Market segmentation helps the bottom line . Even if there were zero legal reasons to have separate personal vs. business accounts , banks would still make it their policy to sell different account types according to use because they can make more money that way . Consider an example in another industry : The plain-old telephone company also practices segmentation w.r.t. personal/business . Do you want a telephone line for a business and listed as such in the phone book ? You need a business line . Do you want a phone line hooked up at a non-residential address ? You need a business line . Here it 's clear it is less of a legal issue than with the bank account , and it does n't matter that the technical features of the phone line may be identical for the basic product offerings within each segment . The phone company has chosen to segment and price their product offerings this way . TL ; DR Q. Why do companies choose to charge some kinds of customers more than others for essentially the same underlying service ? A. Because they can .
You would report it as business income on Schedule C . You may be able to take deductions against that income as well ( home office , your computer , an android device , any advertising or promotional expenses , etc. ) but you 'll want to consult an accountant about that . Generally you can only take those kinds of deductions if you use the space or equipment exclusively for business use ( not likely if it 's just a hobby ) . The IRS is pretty picky about that stuff .
A fee note is the same as an invoice . There are VAT reasons behind issuing a fee note , but from the receivers perspective , it still needs to be paid in the same way as you 'd pay an invoice .
There are multiple answers here which discuss credit scoring criteria . A good score does n't require that you pay interest on a loan . I like that you 're thinking about this so far in advance . A credit inquiry does impact your score for 2 years . I refinanced my mortgage in November 2011 , and the result was nearly $ 5000 less interest per year . Along with that , came a ding to my report , it fades overtime , and falls off after the second year . I do recommend finding the cards that you plan to use for a long time . ( again , other posts here discuss ideal cards ) For me , it was a card that gives 2 % to my daughter 's 529 college account . For you , a different cash back card might be better . Either way , enough available credit so you do n't get a bill representing more than 19 % of the total credit lines . Then pay in full . Do n't apply for any new credit starting 25 months prior to house hunting . And plan to put 20 % down . Average age of accounts helps your score , so constantly opening new accounts and cancelling old is bad . A few related answers help provide a greater understanding of credit scoring - <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
They are correct in asking for a W9 because you are their vendor ( not an employee ) . They will issue you a 1099 at the end of the year and you need to report the income on your tax return . It 's very normal . If you really want to avoid giving them your Social Security Number you can <URL> ( Employer Identification Number ) . Then you would put your EIN instead of your SSN on the W9 form . The income will still be reported to the IRS and you will still get a 1099 and you still need to include the income on your tax return on Schedule C.
I 'm sorry , but there really is no silver bullet and the answer is fairly obvious . You need to find people who will extend credit to you , even if the terms are n't ideal , and establish a record of always paying your bills on time . It may take a while , but eventually your credit will start to recover .
It is unique only in currently listed companies . The V symbol on the NYSE for example currently represents Visa . In the past it used to be for Vivendi Universal .
Form 8843 is not an income tax return . I do n't think you need to file an amendment .
If possible , I would open a Canadian bank account with a bank such as TD Canada Trust . You can then have your payments wired into that account without incurring costs on receipt . They also allow access to their US ATM network via TD Bank without additional costs . So you could use the American Affiliate to pull the funds out via a US teller while only bearing the cost of currency conversion . If that option ca n't work then the best route would be to choose a US bank account that does n't charge for incoming wire transfers and request that the money be wired to your account ( you 'll still get charged the conversion rate when the wire is in CAD and the account is in USD ) .
I found the answer to what you 're looking for in the <URL> . Refer specifically to the question <URL> . Quote : We take the extra step to confirm your card so that we can verify that the card is valid and that you are the card owner . To confirm your card , we 'll charge $ 1.95 to it . After the card is confirmed , we 'll refund the amount to your PayPal balance . Here are amounts for cards in other countries : $ 2.45 CAD $ 1.50 EUR 1.00 GBP 200 JPY 2.00 AUD 3.00 NZD 3.00 CHF 15.00 HKD 15.00 SEK 12.50 DKK 6.50 PLN 15.00 NOK 400.00 HUF 50.00 CZK 4.00 BRL 10.00 MYR 20.00 MXN 8.00 ILS 100.00 PHP 70.00 TWD 70.00 THB If we ca n't determine or do n't support your card 's currency , we charge $ 1.95 USD to the card . ( Refer directly to PayPal for potentially more up-to-date information . )
Since its not a rebate ( i.e. : reimbursement of money you paid to them ) , it is a taxable income . It is essentially a sign-up bonus , they have no obligation to reimburse you for anything by law . This is usually reported as interest income or MISC income on 1099 ( if its MISC - be careful to mark it properly if you prepare your own taxes , otherwise it may be added to your self-employment income ) . The $ 50 you paid as the transfer fee can be deducted as <URL> , subject to the 2 % AGI threshold .
IRS does n't require 1099 to be filed for payments of less than $ 10 . It is , however , taxable income . The fact that 1099 was n't filed with the IRS does n't affect your tax liabilities . If for example you have a private loan ( say to a family member ) and get paid interest on it , the payer will also probably not file 1099-INT with the IRS . However the interest you 're being paid is taxable income to you and should be reported on Schedule B.
<URL> , you need to pay into the system for a minimum of ten years . Technically , you need to earn 40 " credits " based on your contributions for a year , and one can earn a maximum of 4 credits a year . Benefits are calculated according to a somewhat complex formula based more on average earnings ( and thus contributions ) than on years of paying in to the system . A worksheet is available at <URL> to compute your monthly payment .
What does it mean that the bank will " hold you responsible " ? Clearly the money wo n't be credited . Will you be charged a fee like an NSF cheque ? Will they try to prosecute you ? They will pull the money out of your account . Do n't spend it even if it appears to clear . It could take days/weeks for the whole cycle to be completed . Yes you could be charged a fee . It is up to your bank/credit union Will they try to prosecute you ? There was fraud committed , one or more banks were involved . There will be an investigation . The question was how involved were you in the fraud . So yes you could be prosecuted . Is there any way to confirm whether a cashiers cheque is forged ? Could you for example tell your bank that you were uncertain of the origin , and ask them to confirm it ? Can you call the issuer and verify ( from the serial number ) that they did in fact issue a cheque for that amount with you as the payee ? Even calling the bank might not help . The first verification is that the bank exists , and that the account number and name match and that they did issue a check . But that does n't cover the situation where the person that sent you the check was n't who they claimed to be . That is the theft that could take weeks to find .
There is no benefit in life insurance as such ( ie , death insurance . ) There is a great deal of value in other types though : total and permanent disability insurance , trauma insurance ( a lump sum for a major medical event ) , and income protection insurance ( cover against a temporary but disabling medical condition ) . If you do n't have that , you should get it right now . This is about the most important insurance you can carry . Being unable to work for the rest of your life has a far larger impact than having , say , your car stolen . ... If , later on , you acquire dependents , and you feel you ought to have life insurance , then you will have a relationship with a life insurance company , and maybe they will let you upgrade from income/TPD to income/TPD/life without too much fuss or requalification . Some do ; whether yours would I do n't know . But at least you have a toe in the door with them , in a way that is infinitely more immediately useful than getting life insurance that you do n't actually need .
I contacted the three credit bureaus , and they directed me to <URL> , which led me to the FTC . If you suspect your identity is stolen , you should follow this process to authenticate yourself to the credit bureau : File a <URL> with the FTC . You can do this by filling out an online form or calling them . Once you complete this , you 'll receive an FTC Identity Theft Affidavit . File a police report . Bring this affidavit to your local police department , along with any other proof of the theft , a government photo ID , proof of your address , and the <URL> . To prove your address , you need at least two documents bearing your current address that are dated within the last two months . If the police department wo n't accept identity theft reports , either file a miscellaneous report or contact a different police department , sheriff , state police , or federal authorities . Unfortunately , the last step is somewhat vague . The FTC Identity Theft Affidavit and a copy of the completed police report form your " identity theft report " . Transunion said that in the event of fraud , the identity theft report , your Social Security number , and " proof of address or identity as needed " are all that 's necessary to authenticate yourself . They were n't clear on what other personal information they need and would n't specify unless I filed a fraud complaint ; Equifax gave me a similar response . Experian did n't offer specifics unless I opened a fraud complaint . In short , I think your best bet is to create an identity theft report through the FTC and your local police station and use that information to work with the credit agencies . Side note : If identity theft is a concern for you ( when is it not ? ) , consider placing a <URL> on your credit report with each of the credit bureaus . This allows you to control how these agencies sell and/or offer your data to third parties . Unless you lift the freeze , a third party ( landlord , collection agency , etc. ) should n't be able to request your credit history . You 'll need to place a freeze with <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> separately , however . Remember that there is usually a fee to place , temporarily lift , or permanently remove a credit freeze , but some jurisdictions allow you to waive this fee is you 're a documented victim of identity theft .
end question
start question
What does the term " match the market " mean ?
If your returns match the market , that means their rate of return is the same as the market in question . If your returns beat the market , that means their rate of return is higher . There 's no one ' market ' , mind you . I invest in mutual funds that track the <URL> ( which is , very roughly , the U.S. stock market ) , that track the Canadian stock market , that track the international stock market , and which track the Canadian bond market . In general , you should be deeply dubious of any advertised investment option that promises to beat the market . It 's certainly possible to do so . If you buy a single stock , for example , that stock may go up by 40 % over the course of a year while the market may go up by 5 % . However , you are likely taking on substantially more risk . So there 's a very good chance ( likely , a greater chance ) that the investment would go down , losing you money .
Unfortunately the answer is , almost none . Almost everything has a risk of decreasing ; but given your short time horizon and presumably given that you want back your principal in full , plus a little bit , you have few choices . ( Some of the following may be Canadian specific terms , but hopefully they are generic enough to apply ) Savings accounts , money-market funds and the like should be available at any bank . Interest wo n't pay you much right now , but the money should be safe ( I presume Israel has some kind of deposit insurance for normal bank accounts ? ) Slightly more risky would be a short-to-maturity bond or stripped bond coupon . The entry amount of money for one of these may be more than you have on hand , or the setup fee for an investment account might be more than you want to bother with for a one-off investment . Given that you seem to indicate that you might need access to the money during the time-frame in question , the bank-account option seems to be the only one really available .
If you have held the stocks longer than a year , then there is no tax apart from the STT that is already deducted when you sell the shares . If you have held the stock for less than a year , you would have to pay short term capital gains at the rate of 15 % on the profit . Edit : If you buy different shares from the total amount or profits , it makes no difference to taxes .
Reporting costs on a fully-loaded basis means that the business should report costs directly and indirectly associated with its product and the relevant indirect costs , e.g. overhead , indirect charges , etc. . If you 're looking at a company in general , the fully-loaded cost basis of the firm is essentially all costs related to the product ( s ) it offers . In economics/accounting 101 terms , reporting costs on a fully-loaded basis means reporting both the fixed and variable costs associated with production . Fixed costs are costs that remain constant regardless of how much the firm produces , e.g. general overhead like rent , managers ' salaries , etc. while variable costs are per-unit costs that may change as the firm increases or decreases production , e.g. the cost of materials , hourly wages , etc. .
unfortunately , I believe it means arithmetic average , but I agree with you that geometric rate of return would let you find the 10 yr number given the first , where the arithmetic wo n't .
<URL> suggests that two Fidelity funds hold preferred shares of Snapchat Inc. . Preferred shares hold more in common with bonds than with ordinary stock as they pay a fixed dividend , have lower liquidity , and do n't have voting rights . Because of this lower liquidity they are not usually offered for sale on the market . Whether these funds are allowed to hold such illiquid assets is more a question for their strategy document than the law ; it is completely legal for a company to hold a non-marketable interest in another , even if the company is privately held as Snapchat is . The strategy documents governing what the fund is permitted to hold , however , may restrict ownership either banning non-market holdings or restricting the percentage of assets held in illiquid instruments . Since IPO is very costly , funds like these who look to invest in new companies who have not been through IPO yet are a very good way of taking a diversified position in start-ups . Since they look to invest directly rather than through the market they are an attractive , low cost way for start-ups to generate funds to grow . The fund deals directly with the owners of the company to buy its shares . The markdown of the stock value reflects the accounting principle of marking to market ( MTM ) financial assets that do not have a trade price so as to reflect their fair value . This markdown implies that Fidelity believe that the total NPV of the company 's net assets is lower than they had previously calculated . This probably reflects a lack of revenue streams coming into the business in the case of Snapchat . edit : by the way , since there is no market for start-up " stocks " pre-IPO my heart sinks a little every time I read the title of this question . I 'm going to be sad all day now :( .
Companies with existing borrowings ( where borrowings are on variable interest rates ) or in the case with fixed interest rates - companies that get new borrowings - would pay less interest on these borrowings , so their cost will go down and profits up , making them more attractive to investors . So , in general lower interest rates will make the share market a more attractive investment ( than some alternatives ) as investors are willing to take on more risk for potentially higher returns . This will usually result in the stock market rising as it is currently in the US . EDIT : The case for rising interest rates A central bank 's purpose when raising interest rates is to slow down an economy that is booming . As interest rates rise consumers will tighten up their spending and companies will thus have less revenue on top of higher costs for maintaining existing borrowing ( with variable rates ) or new borrowing ( with fixed rates ) . If rates are higher companies may also defer new borrowings to expand their business . This will eventually lead to lower profits and lower valuation for these companies . Another thing that happens is that as banks start increasing interest for saving accounts investors will look for safety where they can get a higher return ( than before ) without the risk of the stock market . With lowering profits and valuations , and investor 's money flowing out of shares and into the money market , so will company share prices drop ( although this may lag a bit with the share market still booming due to greed . But once the boom stops watchout for the crash ) .
A 100 % stock dividend means that you get one share of the " stock dividend " for every share you own . For example , Google did this in 2014 when they gave all of their Class A shareholders one class C share for every Class A that they owned . If the 100 % stock dividend is for the exactly the same stock , it is basically the same as a 2-for-1 stock split . If , however , the 100 % stock dividend is to give you a different stock , then this is typically due to a corporate reorganization or demerger/spinoff event . Some countries have different tax treatments for the events - for example , with demergers in Australia , Class Rulings need to be obtained from the Australian Taxation Office to declare demergers as tax free . A recent demerger was in Australia as South32 , demerged from BHP Billiton . References : <URL> <URL>
Market cap is basically the amount of money that it would cost to buy all of the shares of public stock in a company . Or share cost * number of outstanding shares . It is a measure of how much a company is worth . <URL>
I think your understanding is correct as far as you describe , but you do n't mention a critical detail to me . You also imply some penalty details for early withdrawal / cancellation but you do n't state those terms in detail . Where and when is the interest paid ? Does it go into the same CD for compounding ? Does it get paid to another account ? The description does say that it is priced at par , so we at least know that the interest does n't have to be stuck unpaid within the CD until maturity , but it also means you do n't necessarily get compounding at the CD rate . Without knowing where the interest goes , and if it 's available for compounding , be careful in how you compare it to other CDs / savings accounts . A compoundable structure might be a better option , even at a lower APY .
Several people have mentioned the obvious : inflation . But let 's assume we are talking about real ( inflation adjusted ) prices . One argument is that populations keep rising while the land does not change . So the price of homes in desirable places gets pushed up and people move to second-best locations , pushing those prices up , etc. . Similar Malthusian argument holds for raw materials ( steel , granite , fine wood , etc. ) . Another argument is that the economy has a long-term upward trajectory ( that 's the assumption ) . So each generation , as a whole , has more disposable real income than the previous . As disposable income increases , people tend to put more and more money into their homes , pushing prices up . True for all goods , of course , but it may be more true for real estate than for other types of goods .
The Money Market is a place where one trades Instruments . The market is similar to that of the Stock Market . The instruments traded in Money Markets include Short Term Debt Instruments as well as FX Swap Instruments and Mortgage &amp; Asset Backed Securities . The FX &amp; Mortgage Securities are not Debt instruments per se . They also include other custom created instruments that are traded . The definition of Short Term debt is any guaranteed instrument with a maturity of less than a year . These instruments are used in various transactions , including retail and the Money Market is not the only place these are traded .
When dealing with investments ( including stocks ) , CAGR is how you can describe the average growth of something over a period of time . The acronym stands for Compound Annual Growth Rate . For instance : Let 's say that I buy $ 10,000 worth of stock . After one year , it 's worth $ 9,000 ( a 10 % decrease ) After two years , it 's worth $ 12,000 ( a 33 % increase ) If I wanted to brag to my friends , I 'd say " I made 33 % on my stock from last year ! " Anyone who has known me a bit longer would probably be more interested in what kind of return ( percentage-wise ) I had made in total since I initially purchased the stock ( CAGR ) . This is calculated as follows : where and so for our example , You can double-check this by using that value each year and working forward Initial stock purchase of $ 10,000 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 955 ) = $ 10,955 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 1046 ) = $ 12,001 On a side note , it is interesting that the " simple " calculation most people would make for the above example goes like this : I have $ 12,000 now . I started with $ 10,000 . That is $ 2,000 profit , which is 20 % of $ 10,000 over 2 years . I made 10 % profit each year . Sticking with the CAGR formula prevents such mistakes from happening .
I would rate index futures , in particular the US index futures ( e.g. the S&amp;P 500 future ) as the most liquid markets after the forex markets .
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
Balance available is ( Effectively ) your credit limit minus your current balance due and any pending charges . It 's the credit equivalent of your bank account ( positive ) balance : how much could you bill/charge if you wanted to . With a balance available of $ 500 , you could charge something for $ 480 , but you would n't be allowed to charge $ 530 . With a limit of 500 , you might have : or etc. . The available balance also takes into account various credit holds ( like if you go to the gas station , the pay-at-pump puts a $ 100 hold on for a day or two before you pump , to make sure you can cover the actual cost - it will be adjusted down once the reconciliation occurs , and you 'll never be charged interest for it , but it does reduce your balance available . Those holds are often included in " Pending Charges " or similar . You can also have other kinds of available balance - like available for cash advance , etc. - that might be lower .
Joke warning : These days , it seems that rogue trading programs are the big market makers ( this concludes the joke ) Historically , exchange members were market makers . One or more members guaranteed a market in a particular stock , and would buy whatever you wanted to sell ( or vice-versa ) . In a balanced market -- one where there were an equal number of buyers and sellers -- the spread was indeed profit for them . To make this work , market makers need an enormous amount of liquidity ( ability to hold an inventory of stocks ) to deal with temporary imbalances . And a day like October 29 , 1929 , can make that liquidity evaporate . I say " historically , " because I do n't think that any stock market works this way today ( I was discussing this very topic with a colleague last week , went to Wikipedia to look at the structure of the NYSE , and saw no mention of exchange members as market makers -- in fact , it appears that the NYSE is no longer a member-based exchange ) . Instead , today most ( all ? ) trading happens on " electronic crossing networks , " where the spread is simply the difference between the highest bid and lowest ask . In a liquid stock , there will be hundreds if not thousands of orders clustered around the " current " price , usually diverging by fractions of a cent . In an illiquid stock , there may be a spread , but eventually one bid will move up or one ask will move down ( or new bids will come in ) . You could claim that an entity with a large block of stock to move takes the role of market maker , but it does n't have the same meaning as an exchange market maker . Since there 's no entity between the bidder and asker , there 's no profit in the spread , just a fee taken by the ECN . Edit : I think you have a misconception of what the " spread " is . It 's simply the difference between the highest bid and the lowest offer . At the instant a trade takes place , the spread is 0 : the highest bid equals the lowest offer , and the bidder and seller exchange shares for money . As soon as that trade is completed , the spread re-appears . The only way that a trade happens is if buyer and seller agree on price . The traditional market maker is simply an entity that has the ability to buy or sell an effectively unlimited number of shares . However , if the market maker sets a price and there are no buyers , then no trade takes place . And if there 's another entity willing to sell shares below the market maker 's price , then the buyers will go to that entity unless the market 's rules forbid it .
I can understand your confusion here . Normally when a borrower , such as a corporation or the government , borrows money by issuing a bond , the amount being borrowed is referred to as the principal . This amount never changes over the life of the bond . For example , if a corporation borrows $ 10,000,000 through a bond issue , then , from the corporations point of view , the principal amount remains fixed at $ 10,000,000 for the life of the bond . However , what the market is willing to pay to participate in the interest payable does change over the life of the bond . In the example text you are quoting , the term principal is being used to refer to amount an investor has invested . The market value of an investment in bonds will change according to the prevailing interest rate environment and the perceived credit worthiness of the borrower . When interest rates go up , bond prices tend to go down . With current interest rates so low , an increase in interest rates to 2011 levels would mean a dramatic change in the interest rate environment and a corresponding dramatic effect on bond prices , resulting in a " plunge " in bond prices . The quoted text describes this as the " principal plunging " .
A falling $ AUD would be beneficial to exporters , and thus overall good for the economy . If the economy improves and exporters start growing profits , that means they will start to employ more people and employment will increase - and with higher employment , employees will become more confident to make purchases , including purchasing property . I feel the falling $ AUD will be beneficial for the economy and the housing market . However , what you should consider is that with an improving economy and a rising property market , it will only be a matter of time before interest rates start rising . With a lower $ AUD the RBA will be more confident in starting to increase interest rates . And increasing interest rates will have a dampening effect on the housing market . You are looking to buy a property to live in - so how long do you intend to live in and hold the property ? I would assume at least for the medium to long term . If this is your intention then why are you getting cold feet ? What you should be concerned about is that you do not overstretch on your borrowings ! Make sure you allow a buffer of 2 % to 3 % above current interest rates so that if rates do go up you can still afford the repayments . And if you get a fixed rate - then you should allow the buffer in case variable rates are higher when your fixed period is over . Regarding the doomsayers telling you that property prices are going to crash - well they were saying that in 2008 , then again in 2010 , then again in 2012 . I do n't know about you but I have seen no crash . Sure when interest rates have gone up property prices have levelled off and maybe gone down by 10 % to 15 % in some areas , but as soon as interest rates start falling again property prices start increasing again . It 's all part of the property cycle . I actually find it is a better time to buy when interest rates are higher and you can negotiate a better bargain and lower price . Then when interest rates start falling you benefit from lower repayments and increasing property prices . The only way there will be a property crash in Australia is if there was a dramatic economic downturn and unemployment rates rose to 10 % or higher . But with good economic conditions , an increasing population and low supplies of newly build housing in Australia , I see no dramatic crashes in the foreseeable future . Yes we may get periods of weakness when interest rates increase , with falls up to 15 % in some areas , but no crash of 40 % plus . As I said above , these periods of weakness actually provide opportunities to buy properties at a bit of a discount . EDIT In your comments you say you intend to buy with a monthly mortgage repayment of $ 2500 in place of your current monthly rent of $ 1800 . That means your loan amount would be somewhere around $ 550k to $ 600K . You also mention you would be taking on a 5 year fixed rate , and look to sell in about 2 years time if you can break even ( I assume that is break even on the price you bought at ) . In 2 years you would have paid $ 16,800 more on your mortgage than you would have in rent . So here are the facts : if you are looking to buy now you would be buying when properties are at their highs , if you plan to sell in 2 years time you will be selling possibly when prices have dropped , if you take on a 5 year fixed rate and plan to sell in 2 years time you may be hit with extra fees from your lender for getting out of the mortgage before the fixed period is over , you will be paying $ 700 more in mortgage repayments than rent - costing you $ 16,800 over 2 years , you will lose money on the extra required to pay the mortgage , you will lose money in buying high and selling low , and you will lose money in fees for breaking your fixed rate period early . A better strategy : do n't buy now , keep renting and save up extra money , wait for interest rates to go up and property prices to drop a bit - 5 % to 10 % - this will enable you to negotiate a better price when the market is week and vendors are desperate to sell , if you buy when interest rates are higher and you can afford the property and the repayments , then you will certainly be able to afford it when interest rates come down again , you will buy at a discount so there is more room for the price to move up when rates go down again and the market starts booming again , if you chose to live there for 2 years and then rent it out you will be able to ask for a higher rent ( when interest rates are higher there is less demand for buying property so you can usually buy cheaper , but there is more demand in renting - meaning rents will go up quicker ) , if you hold the property long term - 10 years , 15 years or more , you will build yourself an asset that has increased in price but also provides you with a net positive income each week . It will turn into an asset that you will never want to sell .
The " load " is the act of you directly putting money into the account for the card . The " maximum load " is thus the most possible money you can add to the account at one time . What makes this different from a " maximum balance " is that you can add money to your balance separately from a load - specifically , from getting a refund . So technically you could load 15000 onto the account , spend 5000 , load 5000 more , and that would be OK . If you get a refund before you spend more out , however , you would exceed the maximum balance and be in violation of your card agreement - even though you did n't violate the maximum load amount . The load is also mentioned later in that table , in the form of maximum annual load/spend ( which are both unlimited on that card ) , so this helps to clarify that this " maximum load " is actually the maximum amount you can load at any one time . Some cards actually have maximum daily/monthly loads which are different than their maximum balances or spend sums , which makes the difference in the definitiosn of " load " , " spend " , and " balance " to be important distinctions .
end question
start question
How does the lender benefit from offering a Reverse Mortgage ?
I 'm not an expert on reverse mortgages but from my understanding the closing costs are much higher than traditional mortgages and the LTV is generally pretty low . So the bank makes money by not loaning out all that much compared to the value of the property and by charging high fees on the front end .
I 'm adding this as it seems we 've come to a conclusion , but strictly among the comments . Your comment nails it - " After the PIA is established , the bonus for delaying is applied . Begin at age 68 and you get PIA x 108 % , age 69 gets PIA x 116 % , and age 70 gets PIA x 124 % . Since it is not compounded , the increase from age 69 to 70 is more like 7 % . " One good feature of the <URL> site is the ability to forecast your benefit , either COLA adjusted or not . So , I can see my benefit with either the 8 % year on year increase , or with COLA included .
They have a relationship with Transunion . Soft . No record of the credit pull on your report . No It 's supplied by one of the three large scoring agencies . There is no one FICO score , each of the big three will differ a bit .
The preapproval is the bank stating that they will loan you up to A with a down-payment of B for Y years at R rate . If you do n't ned all the money that is great they will still give you the loan . You can keep the down-payment thew some amount of money or the same percentage of the purchase price whichever you want . For example : Preapproval of $ 200,000 and a down-payment of $ 50,000 ( 20 % ) allows you to buy a house for $ 250,000 . But you find one for $ 240,000 , you can either : get a loan for $ 190,000 with a down-payment of $ 50,000 . or get a loan for $ 192,000 and a down-payment of $ 48,000 . Neither of these needs a new pre-approval . In both cases your monthly payment will be lower than the original loan was expected to be . If you want to change to $ 200K for the loan and $ 40K for the down payment . or in other words decrease the percentage of down-payment ; you might run into an issue that the bank does n't think you have enough of your own money in the deal . Or you may now require PMI where you did n't previously . In this case they will need to re-approve you . Now if the price goes up the bank could require more money down , or may need to re-evaluate the loan .
The offering price is the price at which that IPO is , well , offered . Think of it as a suggested retail price . The opening price is the actual price at which trading begins , on a particular day , for a stock . That price depends on demand/overnight-orders/what-have-you . Think of this as the actual price in the store .
You can claim a deduction only if all of your business is conducted from the home , i.e. your home is your principal place of business - not just if you work from home sometimes . The <URL> ( Canada Revenue Agency ) has pretty strict guidelines listed <URL> , but once you 're sure you qualify for a deduction , the next step would be to determine what portion of your home qualifies . You can not attempt to deduct your entire mortgage simply because you run your business out of your home . The portion of your mortgage and other related &amp; allowable home expense deductions has to be pro-rated to be equal to or less than the portion of your home you use for business . Simply put , if your business is operated out of a 120 sq-ft self-contained space , and your home 's total square-footage is 2400 sq-ft , you can deduct 5 % of your expenses ( 120/2 ,400 = 0.05 ) . Hope this helps !
The Social Security payments for retirement are based on 35 years of indexed earnings . If you have less than 35 years of earnings , then your record will have zeros . If you have more than 35 years , the lowest indexed amounts will be dropped . If someone is receiving benefits but is also working , then the benefits are re-calculated ( and thus increased ) if one of the 35 previous " highest " years can be replaced with a newer " top-35 " year . ( There is a time-delay in this recalculation ; it does not happen as soon as the year ends ) The 40 Quarters requirement is the minimum number of quarters to be eligible for retirement benefits . Once you reach 40 Quarters , the top 35 years ' earnings calculation is used . The Social Security Administration even has a table ( <URL> ) to explain this . The SSA also indexes your earnings so that it reflects changes in the standard of living . You can see the <URL> . You can use , and should use the <URL> to check your own estimates and to : Keep track of your earnings and verify them every year ; Get an estimate of your future benefits if you are still working ; Get a letter with proof of your benefits if you currently receive them ; and Manage your benefits
The US mint produces several gold coins . The two that are produced each year are the American Buffalo , which is 24k gold , and the ( much older ) American Gold Eagle , which is 22k . Both coins are bullion coins minted in specific fraction of Troy ounces ( 1 oz to 1/10 oz ) , although they also bear a face value , which is much lower than their metal value . The mint produces these bullion coins in normal finish , and distribute them from a series of dealers . There are many large sellers of gold in the US , and they are generally competitive and reliable as long as you stick to those bullion ( and not rare , antique , or so called investment grade ) coins . Examples include Kitco , Blanchard , and Apmex . The mint also strikes these coins in special proof , reverse proof , etc finish for collectors . It sells these coins both directly and through its network of retailers . Those coins are sold at a high premium over melt value , and are a very dicey proposition from an investment return standpoint . The US mint also produces a variety of commemorative coins , some of which are minted in gold and silver . These gold coins are typically 22k , and contrary to the bullion coins above , they are minted in weights that mimic those of the old , pre-1929 circulation gold coins . They are not simple fraction of Troy ounces . Here is an example of a commemorative for 2011 : - <URL> - <URL>
The FICA creates two different taxes : taxes on the employees and taxes on the employers . Taxes on the employees are codified under <URL> . For the employers - <URL> . Accidentally ( or not ) the tax rate is the same : 6.2 % of the wages paid ( up to the <URL> ) . The limits are the same , however there 's a subtle difference : Subchapter A ( <URL> ) places the limits on the wages received by the employee , whereas Subchapter B ( <URL> ) places the limits on the wages paid by the employer . Excerpt from Sec . 3101 : In addition to other taxes , there is hereby imposed on the income of every individual a tax equal to the following percentages of the wages ( as defined in section 3121 ( a ) ) received by him with respect to employment ( as defined in section 3121 ( b ) ) -- Excerpt from Sec . 3111 : In addition to other taxes , there is hereby imposed on every employer an excise tax , with respect to having individuals in his employ , equal to the following percentages of the wages ( as defined in section 3121 ( a ) ) paid by him with respect to employment ( as defined in section 3121 ( b ) ) -- So the bottom line is that when an individual exceeds the FICA limits on his wages because of multiple employers , each of the employers separately - does n't . Because these are different taxes and different limits , even if they look very similar .
See <URL> from Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia : A reverse mortgage ( or lifetime mortgage ) is a loan available to seniors , and is used to release the home equity in the property as one lump sum or multiple payments . The homeowner 's obligation to repay the loan is deferred until the owner dies , the home is sold , or the owner leaves ( e.g. , into aged care ) . In a conventional mortgage the homeowner makes a monthly amortized payment to the lender ; after each payment the equity increases within his or her property , and typically after the end of the term ( e.g. , 30 years ) the mortgage has been paid in full and the property is released from the lender . In a reverse mortgage , the home owner makes no payments and all interest is added to the lien on the property . If the owner receives monthly payments , or a bulk payment of the available equity percentage for their age , then the debt on the property increases each month .
The tax deferred status of a 401k plan helps you in theory because your tax rate will be lower once you retire and start drawing the money . This theory could prove incorrect . Also the money you add to a 401k lowers your taxable income today so you end up paying less taxes to the government right now . Depending on where you are in the tax bracket scale that could have the affect of lowering your tax bracket which will save you money in other areas . Each person 's situation is different by my general theory is to contribute towards retirement in the following order : 401k - contribute enough to get any free money . Roth IRA - contribute the maximum allowed under the law . 401k - contribute the additional up to the maximum allowed under the law . Non-retirement account - any additional you want to save just save it in a non-tax deferred account . Hope this helps .
It is possible to consolidate mortgages with Nationwide , in some circumstances . Quote from <URL> : It is possible to consolidate different mortgages and other debts such as personal loans and credit cards . However it does depend on your individual circumstances , including the exact type of loans you want to consolidate and whether you are still in a special deal period I , personally , would be amazed if you could n't get them all in one mortgage without changing provider . But ... I would n't be at all surprised if they forced you to have this one mortgage as a new mortgage , rather than adding balances to an existing one . My reasoning is as follows : I doubt the UK government has written financial rules for consolidating mortgages The only way to therefore go down to one mortgage is to pay off your existing mortgages The only way Nationwide can lend you money to pay off your existing mortgages is by going through the affordability requirements set down by UK government . This takes Nationwide time and effort . They would like to be reimbursed for this time and effort with their mortgage arrangement fees . Coming at it from a different angle : whatever there was that required your further borrowing to be in new mortgages , rather than added to your existing mortgage , will also preclude your multiple mortgages being added to one of your existing mortgages .
I have no personal knowledge of this company ; I 've only looked over what I found on the web . Overall , my judgement is that Pension Benefit Information , Inc. of San Rafael , CA is likely legitimate and aboutmyletter.com is one of two sites run by them ( the other being pbinfo.com ) . These two sites are <URL> to Pension Benefit Information , Inc. ( aboutmyletter uses Network Solutions privacy service but gives the company name ; pbinfo uses their name and San Rafael address . ) They are in the BBB . The president ( of the 8 employee Co. ) , Susan McDonald , has <URL> before Congress about business uses of SSNs . They made a ( very schlocky ) video , which has an interview with McDonald after several canned , generic , " impressive " introductions . I found the interview convincing of a person actually running a small , real business of this type . A short version is on their site , <URL> . There are some queries about their legitimacy online ( like this one ) , but I found nothing negative on them , and <URL> . <URL> talks about the suspicions they run into when contacting participants , and has some advice . Also , scammers are unlikely to pay the U.S. Postal Service money to send paper letters . So what are the dangers ? Money or identity . So do n't pay them any fees ( now or later ) , especially since it looks like their clients ( retirement funds ) pay on the other side . As for identity information : What 's in the letter ? Do n't they show that they already know a bunch about you ? Old employer ? Maybe the last four digits of your SSN ? Your address ( if this is not the forwarded-by-IRS type of contact letter ) . Other things , maybe ? What information would you be giving up if you did respond to them fully ? You could try contacting your old company directly ( mentioning PBI , Inc , ) , although on their website PBI says you 'll have to go through them . ( They probably get paid for each successful contact , and deserve it . ) Still , responding through mail or telephone to PBI seems like the reasonable thing to do .
Fred is correct ... MOST financial advisors ( but not all ) are paid either for managing your assets or for selling you financial products . But success at anything , especially building wealth , is all about PROCESS , not products . I applaud your desire to find a financial advisor to help you because this is not something that most people have the education , experience or capacity to do themselves ( it is impossible to get the perspective you need to make the best choices ) . Start with a CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER professional - they have an ethical duty to do what is in your best interests ahead of their own ( the " fiduciary standard " ) . You might interview two or three . Work with the one who is transparent about how they are paid and whose process is focused on helping you achieve your goals ... not following any rule of thumb or standard boilerplate . Your goals are different . Your financial life is different . Find someone who can help YOU follow YOUR agenda ... not their own .
My opinion is that in general , it is probably not a good idea to borrow at a cost in order to make your RRSP contribution . Banks , of course , have an interest in loaning you money . Do n't expect their literature to be objective on the matter ! They are selling you a product and the advice is biased . What better way to double-dip than to get guaranteed interest payments from you , as well as ongoing fees for ( probably also ) getting your loan money invested in their high-fee mutual funds ? A year 's RRSP contribution room allowance is n't use it or lose it -- <URL> . That is , unused RRSP contribution room accumulates and you can take advantage of it in later years . If we could n't carry our RRSP contribution room over , I might feel different about the general case for RRSP loans . Yet there are two specific cases I can think of where it may make sense to borrow and pay back : ( a possible case ) ... if your tax rate is currently in a high bracket ( e.g. 46 % ) , and you anticipate being in a lower income and bracket next year ( e.g. 35 % ) , then it would make sense to take advantage of the higher tax savings in the current tax year . If you waited until the following year to take the deduction , you 'd lose out on 11 % of the deducted amount . For a typical person whose income is level or increasing from year to year , this is n't likely to be applicable , but it could help somebody who is going on leave or otherwise has irregular income . ( a foolish case ) ... if you knew , somehow , that you could realize a return on your invested RRSP money exceeding the pre-tax earnings required to pay the interest on the RRSP loan . However , I would suggest this is foolish bet to make . The interest you pay is guaranteed , but the return you are expected to get is probably not ( or if it is , it is probably a return lower than what your bank wants to charge on the loan . ) If for some reason it does make sense for you , take the money and invest it somewhere better than the high-fee mutual funds the bank is also pushing .
I found the information I was looking for at the Ontario Ministry of Finance . Refer to <URL> . Here 's an excerpt with my emphasis added : Benefits would be delivered to eligible Ontario tax filers aged 18 and over in each of June 2010 , December 2010 and June 2011 , totalling a maximum of $ 300 for single people and $ 1,000 for single parents and couples . Each maximum benefit would be reduced by five per cent of the recipients ' previous year 's adjusted family net income over $ 80,000 for single individuals and over $ 160,000 for families . To qualify for the two benefits in 2010 , a 2009 tax return would have to be filed , and a 2010 tax return would have to be filed for the June 2011 benefit . About 6.5 million individuals and families in Ontario would receive sales tax transition benefits . A single person with no children and income of up to $ 80,000 would receive a benefit of $ 100 in each of June 2010 , December 2010 and June 2011 . The maximum benefit would be reduced by five per cent of income over $ 80,000 , so a single person with income of $ 81,000 , for example , would receive three benefits of $ 50 each . Single people with income over $ 82,000 would not receive a benefit . A family with income of up to $ 160,000 would receive three benefits : $ 330 in June 2010 , $ 335 in December 2010 and $ 335 in June 2011 . The maximum benefits would be reduced by five per cent of family income over $ 160,000 , so a family with income of $ 163,000 , for example , would receive one benefit payment of $ 180 and two benefit payments of $ 185 each . Families with income over $ 166,700 ( $ 166,600 for the June 2010 benefit ) would not receive a benefit . ... On the last point now in the question , regarding who gets the rebates in the case of a couple , I found the answer at the Ontario Ministry of Revenue ( second link below ) : To qualify for the OSTTB , you are required to file a 2009 income tax return for the June 2010 and December 2010 payments , and a 2010 return for the June 2011 payment . If both you and your spouse or common-law partner file a tax return , the benefit payments will be made to the individual whose return is assessed by the CRA first . Information at the Ontario Ministry of Revenue : <URL> , and <URL> & larr ; good definitive information here ! Here 's some of the basic eligibility information from the second link ( OSTTB ) just above : For the June 2010 benefit payment you must : be a resident of Canada on December 31 , 2009 and file a 2009 income tax return by April 30 , 2011 ; or if you were not a resident of Canada on December 31 , 2009 , provide a statement of 2009 world income to CRA , by April 30 , 2011 be 18 years of age or older or have a spouse or common-law partner or live with your dependant child on May 31 , 2010 be a resident of Ontario on May 31 , 2010 . ... etc ... So , file your income tax return to make sure you 're in the system for the OSTTB rebates ! If you have n't filed your income tax return for 2009 yet , you can download the Ontario income tax forms package at <URL> . Canada Revenue Agency also has a good list of <URL> available . Check it out ! Got a follow-up question ? First , <URL> . If your question was n't asked already , click " Ask Question " at the top of the page . Thanks !
[ Making my comment into an answer ] It 's not relevant how much you originally paid for the house or how much of your mortgage you have already paid off . To make it clear in the light of your comment : the equity you have in your old/current house is the current market value minus any outstanding mortgage debt . From the lender 's perspective , they will assume you need . Then they will look at the new mortgage amount against your salary . An old rule of thumb for the mortgage was a multiple of 3 times your annual salary , or 2.5 times the joint salary of a couple . Pre-credit-crunch when lenders were competing heavily for custom , this got stretched as far as 5 or 6 times salary . However this has now been replaced by affordability checks so a better way of looking at it would be to say that your monthly mortgage payment should not be more than about 40 % of your net monthly income ( after any debt repayment etc. has been taken off ) . There are plenty of mortgage calculators out there that will take a mortgage amount , term and interest rate and tell you what the monthly repayment will be . As always with this sort of thing - rather than blindly going with the maximum the bank will lend you , it is worth looking carefully at your own circumstances - what happens if you lose your job ( how easily will you be able to get another one ? ) , what happens if interest rates - which are very low and have been for a long time - rise , as they inevitably will . The other thing to remember is that buying a house incurs expenses over and above the pure cost of the house itself - conveyancing fees , search fees , survey fees , stamp duty etc. . Not to mention the stuff you always end up needing when you move house ( bits of DIY , furniture , sundries which all add up to a ridiculous amount ) . So also make sure you have enough left over out of the equation to afford all that .
Honestly I would look for a house you can afford and one that is below the maximum amount of what they are willing to lend you . The reason is owning a house is not a quick loan that you can pay off in a year or two ( unless you 're rich then I would question why are you even bothering with a loan ) . This is a long term commitment ; can you honestly say your job will provide the money for the mortgage , the upkeep and remodeling of the house ( even if it 's the perfect house you will want to change something , make the bathroom bigger , put in a pool table etc. . etc. . ) , living expenses and any hiccups life throws at you ? Like most of us , that answer will be no . Always have money and supplies for that rainy day , for those lean days . For that mortgage payment . And if nothing happens you can always use the money to pay the mortgage off faster or take a vacation .
Licensing would n't be related to whether you could use the caregiver 's receipts as tax-deductions . The IRS has a page worth checking out : <URL> , as well as <URL> . Specifically check out the section " Provider Identification Test " in Publication 503 ; it 's relevant . The amount you 're deducting for child care needs to be for a " qualified person " , e.g. a dependent child under age 13 , per the IRS , but the caregiver -- as far as the IRS is concerned -- need not be specially qualified to provide child care . However , the caregiver ca n't also be a dependent ( e.g. your spouse or another child . ) See the resources above for details . Licensing is likely enforced at a municipal or state level , separate from the tax code , and I imagine would be more concerned with the qualifications and conditions of the child care business operator .
What you are missing is " leverage " , which is the typical case for real estate purchases . Buyers usually only put a percentage of the cash down , not the whole amount . So instead you have something like this : Year 0 : Buy $ 100,000 house for 10,000 down . $ 10,000 equity , $ 90,000 debt . Year 5 : Sell house for $ 300,000 . Even if the debt was not payed down and ignoring fees/expenses , that means you have $ 210,000 in cash at sale . 300,000 sale - 90,000 debt = $ 210,000 , so 200,000 profit out of your starting 10k in cash . So , let 's say the $ 150,000 house also tripled to $ 450,000 . When you first bought you could only obtain a $ 90,000 loan with your $ 10k cash , but at the same 90 % loan-to-value ratio $ 210,000 could now secure you a house costing $ 2.1 million . That 's leverage in action . You could also put all the cash down on the expensive house and it is now available to you with a ~ 50 % loan , whereas previously it could not be purchased at all . Note that the " upgrade " still increases your debt and overwhelms your equity , so you go from being up 200k after the sale to being in debt by millions after the purchase , and it also increases your expenses . This is why this is a dangerous game . If your plan was to " upgrade " again at year 10 , or at least cash out and enjoy being a millionaire , what if house prices fell , flat-lined , only grew very slowly - and something happened to your income and you could n't keep up those huge debt payments ? If things go as planned , though , leverage is what delivers the theoretically big upgrade . House prices grow by a percentage of their value - regardless of the percentage of the value you have in equity at the beginning , and regardless of how big the theoretical loan is . If housing prices increase faster than the yearly interest ( which is certainly not guaranteed ! ) you pay on the loan , every year is a paper profit and your buying power increases . In fast-growing housing areas , this was what created the " property ladder " . You bought a house , and in a few years it was worth vastly more - and your income was probably higher now , because the economy was booming . So you bought a bigger , fancier house and in a few more years sold that too ( or just refinanced ) and bought another . 20-30 years of regular living produced millions in profits once it was time to sell the great big house , downsize , and enjoy your retirement . This has lots of assumptions - from higher income to fast growing housing markets , to employment stability , ease of selling or refinancing , etc. . Do n't assume what works on paper necessarily will work in practice !
end question
start question
What is a typical investment portfolio made up of ?
Most people carry a diversity of stock , bond , and commodities in their portfolio . The ratio and types of these investments should be based on your goals and risk tolerance . I personally choose to manage mine through <URL> which combine the three , but <URL> are also becoming popular . As for where you keep your portfolio , it depends on what you 're investing for . If you 're investing for retirement you are definitely best to keep as much of your investment as possible in <URL> or <URL> ( preferably <URL> ) . Many advisers suggest contributing as much to your 401k as your company matches , then the rest to IRA , and if you over contribute for the IRA back to the 401k . You may choose to skip the 401k if you are not comfortable with the choices your company offers in it ( such as only investing in company stock ) . If you are investing for a point closer than retirement and you still want the risk ( and reward potential ) of stock I would suggest investing in <URL> , or eating the tax and investing in regular mutual funds . If you are going to take money out before retirement the penalties of a 401k or IRA make it not worth doing . Technically a savings account is n't investing , but rather a place to store money .
The two biggest issues that impact your question I would say are diversification and fees . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and only invest it in two securities , then a 20 % drop in one security can have you lose 10 % of your initial investment which I would consider a very high risk scenario . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and invest it in 20 securities , then a 20 % drop in one security would only cause you to lose 1 % of your initial investment . So far this is looking better from a diversification point of view . But then the issue of fees comes in . If you paid $ 10 per trade to buy those 20 securities you already spent 2 % of your initial investment in fees ! Not to mention you will pay at least another $ 200 to get out of all those positions . No right answer - but those are the two factors I always try to balance .
Unless and until you are ready to do the ground work and get your hands dirty in the market , it is better to let the money where it is . But how to distribute money in which asset classes , industry etc is your choice to make . But remember that a big investment company does n't guarantee that you will always earn a return higher than the market or it is safe with them . They are also bound to make mistakes and go bust , but it would be quite rare for companies , with billions of assets because they have strict checks in place and invest with extreme caution and proper research . One option is to try dabbling in the markets yourself , slowly , not everything at once . You will learn a lot and there are loads of information on the net and books in stores which could get you started . You will need to do a lot of groundwork to beat the market . That is difficult but not impossible . People have done it time and time again and they have put in hard work to do so . And I do n't see with a little bit of work and time , why you should n't be able to do that , unless and until you are lazy and do n't intend to do it .
There are legitimate reasons : She is a sole proprietor , and does n't want to give out her last name . She does n't participate in the banking system for various reasons , and hands the check to a third party . She may have had an unpleasant audit experience with the tax authorities and wants to maintain a smaller record footprint . She may have an abusive spouse or some other personal situation where she values her anonymity . I would n't jump the gun and assume that this person is avoiding taxes , etc. . Barbers are usually licensed professions . Since it 's generally a cash business , they tend to get audited more often by the tax authorities . That said , I would n't pay her with a check -- you have no idea who is actually cashing the check , and you could run into issues with unknown third parties misusing your account information .
The deadline for recharacterizing the 2010 roll over was <URL> . What was the deadline to recharacterize a 2010 rollover or conversion to a Roth IRA ? You had until October 17 , 2011 ( because October 15 , 2011 , was a Saturday ) , to recharacterize your 2010 rollover or conversion to a Roth IRA if you filed your 2010 tax return on time , including extensions , and regardless of whether you requested an extension to file your 2010 tax return . For example , even if you did not request an extension to file your 2010 tax return and actually filed your return on or before April 18 , 2011 ( because April 15 was a holiday in the District of Columbia ) , you had until October 17 , 2011 , to recharacterize your 2010 Roth IRA rollover or conversion .
I think most financial planners or advisors would allocate zero to a gold-only fund . That 's probably the mainstream view . Metals investments have a lot of issues , more elaboration here : <URL> Also consider that metals ( and commodities , despite a recent drop ) are on a big run-up and lots of random people are saying they 're the thing to get in on . Usually this is a sign that you might want to wait a bit or at least buy gradually . The more mainstream way to go might be a commodities fund or all-asset fund . Some funds you could look at ( just examples , not recommendations ) might include several PIMCO funds including their commodity real return and all-asset ; Hussman Strategic Total Return ; diversified commodities index ETFs ; stuff like that has a lot of the theoretical benefits of gold but is n't as dependent on gold specifically . Another idea for you might be international bonds ( or stocks ) , if you feel US currency in particular is at risk . Oh , and REITs often come up as an inflation-resistant asset class . I personally use diversified funds rather than gold specifically , fwiw , mostly for the same reason I 'd buy a fund instead of individual stocks . 10 % - ish is probably about right to put into this kind of stuff , depending on your overall portfolio and goals . Pure commodities should probably be less than funds with some bonds , stocks , or REITs , because in principle commodities only track inflation over time , they do n't make money . The only way you make money on them is rebalancing out of them some when there 's a run up and back in when they 're down . So a portfolio with mostly commodities would suck long term . Some people feel gold 's virtue is tangibility rather than being a piece of paper , in an apocalypse-ish scenario , but if making that argument I think you need physical gold in your basement , not an ETF . Plus I 'd argue for guns , ammo , and food over gold in that scenario . :-)
Bonds and equities are usually the inverse of each other . As rates start to rise the value of your existing , low rate bond portfolios will decrease . With rates near all-time record lows , holding anything other than short-duration bond funds is a risky proposition . If you want income , look at shifting toward dividend equities .
In a word , no . Diversification is the first rule of investing . Your plan has poor diversification because it ignores most of the economy ( large cap stocks ) . This means for the expected return your portfolio would get , you would bear an unnecessarily large amount of risk . Large cap and small cap stocks take turns outperforming each other . If you hold both , you have a safer portfolio because one will perform well while the other performs poorly . You will also likely want some exposure to the bond market . A simple and diversified portfolio would be a total market index fund and a total bond market fund . Something like 60 % in the equity and 40 % in the bonds would be reasonable . You may also want international exposure and maybe exposure to real estate via a REIT fund . You have expressed some risk-aversion in your post . The way to handle that is to take some of your money and keep it in your cash account and the rest into the diversified portfolio . Remember , when people add more and more asset classes ( large cap , international , bonds , etc. ) they are not increasing the risk of their portfolio , they are reducing it via diversification . The way to reduce it even more ( after you have diversified ) is to keep a larger proportion of it in a savings account or other guaranteed investment . BTW , your P2P lender investment seems like a great idea to me , but 60 % of your money in it sounds like a lot .
There is a clear difference between investing and gambling . When you invest , you are purchasing an asset that has value . It is purchased in the hopes that the asset will either increase in value or generate income . This definition holds true whether you are investing in shares of stock , in real estate , or in a comic book collection . You can also purchase debt : if you loan money , you own debt that will ( hopefully ) be repaid and generate income . Gambling is playing a game for chance . When you gamble , you have not purchased an asset ; you have only paid to participate in a game . Some games have a degree of skill ( blackjack , poker ) , others are pure chance ( slot machine ) . In most gambling games , the odds are against the player and in favor of the one running the game . Lottery tickets , without a doubt , are gambling . There is <URL> that discusses the difference between investing and gambling in more detail . One thing that this article discusses is the house edge , or the advantage that the people running a gambling game have over the players . With most casino games , the house has an advantage of between 1 and 15 % over the players . With a typical lottery , the house edge is 50 % . To address some of the points made by the OP 's recent edit and in the comments : I do not think the definitions of investment and gambling need to be dependent on expected value . There can be bad investments , where the odds of a good result are low . Similarly , there could be gambling games where the odds are in the player 's favor , either due to the skill of the player or through some quirk of the game ; it 's still gambling . Investing is purchasing an asset ; gambling is a game of chance . I do not consider a lottery ticket an asset . When you buy a lottery ticket , you are just paying a fee to participate in a game . It is the same as putting a coin in a slot machine . The fact that you are given a piece of paper and made to wait a few days for the result do not change this . Assets have inherent value . They might be valuable because of their ability to generate income ( stocks , bonds , debt ) , their utility ( precious metals , commodities , real estate ) , or their desirability as a thing of beauty ( collectibles ) , for example . A lottery ticket , however , is only an element of a game . It has no value other than in the game .
Probably not . A debit of 50K in your Bank statement does not mean that its invested into tax saving instrument . This question is best answered by the finance department of your company . Practise vary from organization to organization .
There 's no catch . Banks need to acquire customers just like any other business . One common way to acquire new customers is by advertising on the radio , TV , print , etc. . Another common way to acquire new customers is by offering incentives like the one you linked to . Basically , PNC is confident that they will make more than $ 100 in profit over the entire lifetime of a customer . This is a very reasonable assumption , considering that : In the second quarter of 2010 , PNC Financial reported <URL> in net income . According to <URL> , they have approximately 5M customers . Therefore , net income per customer was $ 172 for just April through June 2010 .
To clarify , the IRS defines a qualified distribution is a distribution that 's used to pay for a <URL> . In the context of 529 plans , these are Tuition and fees required to enroll at or attend an eligible educational institution Course-related expenses , such as fees , books , supplies , and equipment that are required for the courses at the eligible educational institution . These items must be required of all students in your course of instruction . savingforcollege.com has a <URL> for tax-free 529 distributions . Benefits You mostly covered this benefit in your question , but the tax-exempt growth is a major benefit . Contributions to a 529 plan grow tax-free , and assuming you use the funds for educational purposes , you 're not required to pay taxes on the earnings or withdrawals . This is less of a benefit if you 're looking to start grad school immediately or in the next year or so , but it 's still a benefit . Depending on which state you live in , your state <URL> if you choose to invest in a state plan . This might be useful if you 're starting grad school and do n't have enough time to achieve a lot of tax-free growth . If your state offers tax deductions on your contributions , your account can function as a pass-through account , and if you itemize , you 'll reap a tax savings on your contributions to the plan anyway . Drawbacks As you said , one potential drawback is that if you do n't use up the money in the account and decide to withdraw the remainder for personal use , you 're required to pay taxes on it in addition to the 10 % penalty on the earnings . However , you can change the beneficiary of the plan from yourself to someone else , and the new beneficiary can still take advantage of tax-free growth on the remaining funds and use these earnings for educational purposes . Depending on the value of the account , <URL> , so consult a tax professional before doing this just to make sure . Depending on the 529 plans available to you , you may face fees that negate any potential tax deductions . If you have a longer horizon , you may be able to choose an asset allocation that earns you enough tax-free growth to negate the effect of these fees , but with a short horizon , it 's definitely something worth considering . If you choose to invest in an out-of-state 529 plan , your local state <URL> . Some states offer 529 prepaid tuition programs ; these are usually only for undergraduate education , and some of them require that all tuition credits be used by the age of 30 . Obviously , check to make sure that whatever plan you invest in ( if it 's a prepaid tuition program ) will work for your graduate education and that you 're aware of any limitations to its use . Other points I mentioned growth above . If you have a short horizon , it 's probably best to choose an asset allocation that will provide you some stability and maybe some income , but not a high level of risk that could cost you a lot of the value . <URL> recommends bond and/or interest funds instead of equity funds for people with a short time horizon . I want to mention one more point because a ) a lot of people do n't know about it , and b ) it 's somewhat complicated , but can be beneficial in some cases . If you incur an unrealized loss in your 529 account and decide to cash out the account ( perhaps because you need the money now to pay your educational expenses and ca n't wait for a market reversal ) , <URL> . From the section titled " Losses on [ Qualified Tuition Plan ] Investments " : If you have a loss on your investment in a QTP account , you may be able to take the loss on your income tax return . You can take the loss only when all amounts from that account have been distributed and the total distributions are less than your unrecovered basis . Your basis is the total amount of contributions to that QTP account . You claim the loss as a miscellaneous itemized deduction on Schedule A ( Form 1040 ) , line 23 ( Schedule A ( Form 1040NR ) , line 9 ) , subject to the 2 % - of-adjusted-gross-income limit . It 's worth at least knowing about something like this in the event that you invest in a 529 plan with a short horizon but lose money right before you need it . The situation may be <URL> if you receive state-level deductions , you 're subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax , etc. . If you find yourself faced with this situation , talk to a tax professional with experience dealing with 529 plans who has heard of this deduction .
There are ways to mitigate , but since you 're not protected by a tax-deferred/advantaged account , the realized income will be taxed . But you can do any of the followings to reduce the burden : Prefer selling either short positions that are at loss or long positions that are at gain . Do not invest in stocks , but rather in index funds that do the rebalancing for you without ( significant ) tax impact on you . If you are rebalancing portfolio that includes assets that are not stocks ( real-estate , mainly ) consider performing <URL> instead of plain sale and re-purchase . Maximize your IRA contributions , even if non-deductible , and <URL> . Hold your more volatile investments and individual stocks there - you will not be taxed when rebalancing . Maximize your 401K , HSA , SEP-IRA and any other tax-advantaged account you may be eligible for . On some accounts you 'll pay taxes when withdrawing , on others - you wo n't . For example - Roth IRA/401k accounts are not taxed at all when withdrawing qualified distributions , while traditional IRA/401k are taxed as ordinary income . During the " low income " years , consider converting portions of traditional accounts to Roth .
Options are contractual instruments . Most options you 'll run into are contracts which allow you to buy or sell stock at a given price at some time in the future , if you feel like it ( it gives you the option ) . These are Call and Put options , respectively ( for buying the stock and selling the stock ) . If you have a lot of money in an index fund ETF , you may be able to protect your portfolio against a market decline by ( e.g. ) buying Put options against the ETF for a substantially lower price than the index fund currently trades at . If the market crashes and your fund falls in value significantly , you can exercise the options , selling the fund at the price that your option has specified ( to the counter-party of your contract ) . This is the risk that the option mitigates against . Even if you do n't have one particular fund with your investments , you could still buy a put option on a similar fund , and resell it to another person in lieu of exercise ( they would be capable of buying the stock and performing the exercise themselves for profit if necessary ) . In general , if you are buying an option for safety , it should be an option either on something you own , or something whose price behavior will mimic something you own . You will note that options are linked to the price of stocks . Futures are contracts whose values are linked to the price of other things , typically commodities such as oil , gold , or orange juice . Their behaviors may diverge . With an option you can have a contractual guarantee on the exact investment you 're trying to protect . ( Additionally , many commodities ' value may fall at the same time that stock investments fall : during economic contractions which reduce industrial activity , resulting in lower profits for firms and less demand for commodities . ) You may also note that there are other structures that options may have - PUT options on index funds or similar instruments are probably most specifically relevant to your interests . The downside of protecting yourself with options is that it costs money to buy this option , and the option eventually expires , so you may lose money . Essentially , you are buying safety and risk-tolerance from the option contract 's counterparty , and safety is not free . I can not inform you what level of safety is appropriate for your portfolio 's needs , but more safety is more expensive .
10 years in some states in the US . Also , items do n't ever leave your credit report , but time will improve your credit score . Repair the damage ? First find the damage . In the US you are entitled by law to a credit report from each of the bureaus once a year . Some folks get them all at once , some people get one every four months . <URL> Please do n't pay for a credit report . Anybody who advertises will be the ones selling you a report and they are basically stealing . You have a pretty good chance of finding errors in your report . You will have to dispute them with the reporting bureaus . Be prepared for a few months of registered letters and lots of phone calls to get your report cleaned up and accurate . Then , Know how credit works . Know your score . I have used credit.com for free to get an estimated score . It also cover # 1 with some nice info on how credit is calculated . Pay down debt , do n't acquire more Do n't cancel your credit lines that are paid down . Cut up the cards , never use the accounts again , but do n't close them . Once you are debt free , if you use credit wisely that does n't hurt . Pay for stuff with credit cards but always always always pay them off at the end of each month . Time is the best way to fix your ills . Use credit properly for a nice long time and your score will improve . Do n't use credit counseling : All they do is bargin for lower payments . You can do this yourself . Do n't use credit protection services : They do n't do anything you ca n't do yourself for free . ( Read some consumer credit web pages to learn your rights ) EXAMPLE I ran across this tale , which is pretty well written , very clear and mentions a lot of the steps and details I never knew . <URL>
It 's complicated . Really , there 's no solid answer for your question . Everybody 's risk tolerance and time horizon is going to be different . Those who can take on more risk can take on lower-grade C-G loans at Lending Club . Those with less risk tolerance should emphasize As and Bs .
Disclosure - I love Jack Bogle . Jack basically invented the index fund , and as a result , let the common investor have an opportunity to choose a long term return of ( S&amp;P -.05 % ) instead of losing nearly 2 % that many funds in that day charged . The use of index investing has saved investors many billions of dollars . The 1 % round trip , total cost to buy/sell , was common . Fees for trading have since dropped . I happen to use Schwab who charges $ 9 for a trade . On $ 100,000 , this is not .5 % ( $ 500 ) but less than .01 % . I think it 's safe to say that billion dollar mutual funds are paying even less for trades that I do . I believe Jack 's example here is a combination of old data and hyperbole . The cost is not so much for the trades , per se , but for the people managing the fund . An index fund has a manager of course , but it 's pretty much run by a computer .
83 ( b ) election is for restricted stocks , not options , so my answer assumes exercise at vest/at grant ( early exercise ) . Will I have to pay tax on ( 2000 * 8 = $ 16000 ) Yes . Will it be a regular income tax or AMT or a short term capital gain ? You have no gain . You vested at $ 10 and sold at $ 10 , you got a wash . The $ 16K you mentioned earlier is the benefit you got from the company , which is not a gain but your salary and is taxed as such ( including FICA etc ) . Also , I read that 83B does not make sense for vested stocks Indeed . In the above case , can I file 83B for the unvested 1000 stocks ? No , you can only file 83 ( b ) election within 30 days from the grant . By not filing it , you ended up with $ 16K being taxed at vest time as your salary ( i.e. : at marginal rates ) . Had you filed 83 ( b ) election on time , you 'd pay the tax on your benefit ( the $ 2 per option , if you did n't have to buy them ) , but all the gains on vesting would be capital gains ( likely long term ) . That ship has sailed , for that particular grant . Since in your case you can exercise the options , it is not as bad as it could have been . Consider a case where you got 1000 options at $ 0.01 , they vested at $ 1000 , you exercised them to get the stocks and you could n't sell any ( not yet public , ca n't sell privately , etc ) . You 'd be taxed on $ 1M when you never actually received any cash income , and you 'd have to chip out $ 300K on taxes on income you never had . By the time you could sell , the stocks can fall , say to $ 100 , leaving you with hundreds of thousands of capital loss that you can not deduct , and hundreds of thousands of taxes owed which you have no money to pay . That led to a lot of problems for people during the 90 's . com bubble and the subsequent crash .
Note : I have never heard of this company before this question was asked . These are my thoughts based on a quick review of their website . It seems that Motor Club of America is a roadside assistance service company , similar to AAA . It is ridiculously expensive : $ 20 per month for their " Total Security " plan , or $ 240 per year . This is about double what the highest level of AAA membership costs . As you noticed , they recruit people to sell their Total Security plan in a Multilevel Marketing type scheme . Your Facebook friends and acquaintances that " swear by it " are simply being paid to do so . It 's nothing more than that . Their job is to fill up your Facebook feed with a sales pitch for an overpriced product . Of course , you do n't need to be told this , but selling overpriced products to your friends is not the best way to make money or to keep your friends .
I think it depends on the bank rules , on both sides . Arguably , because of the " &amp; " , the bank where your room mate is going to deposit it might require you to be present as well . I 'm quite certain that both of you have to be present for cashing , but for depositing - check with the bank where it 's going to be deposited . It would be safe to have both signatures ( as you described ) , but it may happen that they 'll refuse to deposit it if it 's a non-joint account and only one is present . I would suggest calling and asking them . If you can have the landlord change it to " and/or " instead of " and " - it would definitely make your life easier .
end question
start question
Can I switch mortgage of a house to a different house ?
I 've never heard of portable mortgages in the US . If you ca n't afford two mortgages , you will have to sell the first house to pay off its mortgage before you can buy the 2nd house . This is done all the time in the US . You can put your current house on the market ( advertise it for sale ) then arrange for a long closing while you arrange to buy a new house . Also , you can make an offer on a new house and include a contingency clause that you must sell your current house first . Good escrow companies are very good at managing cascading transactions like this .
In the United States taxes on the sale of a principal residence are based on the difference between the sale price and the cost of the home . Assuming you meet the requirements you can shelter 250,000 or 500,000 of gains from the sale of your principal residence . This calculation is not related to the loan balance . The basic equation is sales price minus purchase price . It get a little more complex because some costs to purchase and sell the home are included in the calculation , or if you made renovations to the house that will increase your costs and decrease your gains . Trying to decrease the loan balance just before selling the house would just be paying yourself that money at the settlement table . It could save you some money on interest between now and settlement but emptying your bank account to save a few bucks does n't seem worth it . I would also prefer to have the money in the bank to pay for some expenses that will popup getting the house sold , you moving , and the settlement date .
Your best approach is to assess rent levels in your local area for offices of a similar size . You need to take into account all the usuals - amenities , parking , etc , just as if your home-office was provided by a third-party . Get your $ / sq ft and work out the monthly amount . With this figure , you need to then work out what % of it you can charge . If the space is used exclusively for the business , charge 100 % . If it 's used about half the time , charge 50 % , etc. . I would strongly advise you to do two things - 1 . make sure your accountant and your attorney help you get this squared away . 2 . document everything about how you arrived at the cost . Nothing fancy , but dates , realtors , addresses , $ / sq foot . A simple table will do . By doing these two things , if the IRS should come around to chat , you should be covered .
This is something you should decide as part of entering a partnership with someone . Ideally before you make the initial purchase you have a detailed contract written up . If you have already bought the house and someone is now ready to move out the easiest thing to do is sell the house . If that is not an option , you 'll have to decide on a plan together and then get it in writing .
For your mortgage to be tax deductible there 's no requirement on who the lender should be . The requirement is that the mortgage is secured by your primary residence and is used to buy or improve such . If you can show the documentation for the loan and the actual interest paid , and if you can show that the proceeds were used to buy and/or improve your primary residence - you should be able to claim the interest paid as deduction on Schedule A. See <URL> . Keep in mind , that in order for your interest to be deductible , the receiver ( lender ) must also properly document and declare it on their own tax return . If they evade taxes on the interest , your own deduction may be disallowed . To ensure that your lender does in fact report everything properly , you should ask for form 1098 . Pay attention : if your lender does n't provide you with the form 1098 - your interest goes on a different line of schedule A ( line 11 and not line 10 ) , and details about the lender may be required .
I am wondering weather it is worth it ( how taxation works in this scenario ect . ) or not and legally possible to do so ? Whether it is worth it or not is up to you . There 's nothing illegal in this , unless of course there 's a legal issue in the foreign country . The US does n't care . Re taxes - it is a bit trickier . If your lender does not provide you with form 1098 , you 'll have to report the lender 's name , address and SSN/ITIN on your tax return in order to claim a deduction . The IRS will then expect the lender to report that interest as income . This is US-sourced income and is taxed in the US despite the fact that the lender is non-resident . See <URL> for more info . If the lender does n't report the income and does n't pay the taxes - your deduction may be denied as well for double-dipping . It is easier if this is an investment . Then the deduction is not going to Schedule A , but rather as an expense to Schedule E . The IRS may still require matching , but you wo n't need to report the SSN/ITIN - just have the expense properly documented . Obviously , the best when it comes to legal issues , is to talk to an attorney licensed in the State in question . Similarly with tax questions - you should talk to a EA/CPA licensed in that State . I 'm neither .
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
The general answer is : " it depends on how long you want to live there " . Here is a good calculator to figure it out : <URL> Basically , if you plan to move in a few years , then renting makes more sense . It is a lot easier to move from an apartment when your lease is up versus selling a house , which can be subject to fluctuations in the real-estate market . As an example , during the real estate bubble , a lot of " young professional " types bought condos and town homes instead of renting . Now these people are married with kids , need to move somewhere bigger , but they ca n't get rid of their old place because they ca n't sell it for what they still owe . If these people had rented for a few years , they would be in a better position financially . ( Many people fell for the mantra " If you are renting , you are throwing your money away " , without looking at the long-term implications . ) However , your question is a little unique , because you mentioned renting for the rest of your life , and putting the savings into an investment , which is a cool idea . ( Thinking outside the box , I like it . ) I 'm going to assume you mean " rent the same place for many years " versus " moving around the country every few years " . If you are staying in one place for a long time , I am going to say that buying a house is probably a better option . Here 's why : With a mortgage , at some point you stop sending a check every month . With rent , the payments never stop . At the end of the mortgage , you have an asset that is worth a lot of money ( your house ) . You can sell it and travel the world , give it to your kids , etc. . ( EDIT : With the rent + invest approach , you would have your investment portfolio as a sizable asset . It is open to discussion which one would come out ahead . ) With a mortgage , your payments are a fixed amount ( unless you have an ARM ) . Inflation drives prices up over time , but your mortgage payment stays the same . In fact , inflation helps the homeowner by making the last mortgage payment " cheaper " than the first one . Rent prices tend to keep pace with inflation . Your landlord will probably increase the rent periodically . There are tax advantages to buying a house ( in the US anyway ) . Your mortgage interest is a tax deduction . There are also tax credits for certain home improvements ( e.g. installing an energy efficient A/C ) . You ca n't take advantage of these when you rent . Over the long term , home prices do go up ( population is increasing , but there is a finite amount of land ) . I am not saying the house is a good " investment " , but its value normally wo n't evaporate over 30 years like some other assets would . In terms of inflation-adjusted dollars , your house should maintain similar " value " over the years , as long as you stay on top of the upkeep ( and your neighborhood does n't become run-down ) . With a mortgage , you are paying interest to a bank , which some would consider to be a " black hole " just like rent . However , you can reduce the money you pay in interest by making extra mortgage payments . Making 1-2 extra payments at the start of your mortgage can save a huge sum of money over the life of the loan . So what about investing ? Let 's look at some numbers : Investing in the Dow Jones Industrial Average would give you ~ 9 % per year , with a lot of volatility ( <URL> ) . Mortgage rates are hovering at about 5 % right now . ( <URL> ) Seems like a good idea to invest , instead of taking out a mortgage , right ? Now , add in an inflation rate of ~ 3 % ( <URL> ) Inflation erodes the effective stock market return , but it helps your mortgage payment by effectively making it cost less over time . Next think about taxes . That 9 % stock market return is taxable income ( which eats into your effective return ) , whereas the mortgage interest is a tax deduction . Inflation and taxes pretty much negate higher rate of return for the stock investment . Additionally , you have the inflationary impacts of a rent payment that increases over time . So , based on the above , I say that buying a house is the way to go ( as long as you plan to live in the same place for several years ) . However , if you could find a better investment than the Dow , or if mortgage interest rates change drastically , things could tip in another direction . Addendum : CrimsonX brought up a good point about the costs of owning a house ( upkeep and property taxes ) , which I did n't mention above . However , I do n't think they change my answer . If you rent , you are still paying those costs . They are just hidden from you . Your landlord pays the contractor or the tax man , and then you pay the landlord as part of your rent .
Here is a free way to do an estimate : Find a house in the same neighborhood that sold within the last few months or the last year . Look up on the local government website what the tax appraisal was for the house that was sold . You now have a ratio of tax appraisal to selling price . Look up the apprised value for the house you want to estimate . Use the ratio to estimate the selling price . You can use several houses in the first two steps to get a range of ratios . If you are selling or buying a house , your agent can help with this process . If you do n't have an agent yet , this is one of the key questions to ask potential agents .
I find it best to go to <URL> ( i.e. the company that operates the fund , in this case Vanguard ) : Extended Market ETF 0.16 %
It depends on the deal : and you did n't give any details . That said , there are some things that stand out regardless , and some more specific answers to your questions . First , Mortgage rates ( at the bank ) are absurdly low right now . Like 4 % -5 % ; less than 4 % for excellent credit . You say your credit is ok , so unless your landlord is willing to do a deal where they get no benefit ( beyond the price of the house ) , the bank is the way to go . If you do n't have much for a down payment , go with an FHA loan , where you need only 3.5 % down . Second , there is another option in between bank mortgage and rent-to-own . And that is that where your landlord " carries the note " . Basically , there is a mortgage , and it works like a bank mortgage , but instead of the bank owning the mortgage , your landlord does . Now , in terms of them carrying all of it , this is n't really helpful . Who wants to make 3-4 % interest ? But , there is an interesting opportunity here . With your ok credit , you can probably get pretty close to 4 % interest at the bank IF the loan is for 80 % LTV ( loan to value ; that is , 20 % equity ) . At 80 % LTV you also wo n't have PMI , so between the two that loan will be very cheap . Then , your accommodating landlord can " carry " the rest at , say , 6-7 % interest , junior to the bank mortgage ( meaning if you default , the bank gets first dibs on the value of the house ) . Under that scenario , your over all interest payment is very reasonable , and you would n't have to put any money down . Now for your other questions : If we rent to own are we building equity ? Not usually . Like the other posters said , rent-to-own is whatever both parties agree on . But objectively , most rent-to-own agreements , whether for a TV or a house , are set up to screw the buyer . Sorry to be blunt , and I 'm not saying your landlord would do that , this is just generally how it is with rent to own . You do n't own it till you make the last payment , and if you miss a payment they repo the property . There is no recourse because , hey , it was a rental agreement ! Of course the agreements vary , and people who offer rent to own are n't necessarily bad people , but it 's like one of those payday loan places : They provide a valid service but no one with other options uses them . If we rent to own , can we escape if we have to ( read : ca n't pay anymore ) . Usually , sure ! Think about what you 're saying : " Here 's the house back , and all that money I paid you ? Keep it ! " It 's a great deal if you 're on the selling side . How does rent to own affect ( or not ) our credit ? It all depends on how it 's structured . But really , it comes down to are they going to do reporting to the credit bureaus ? In a rent-to-own agreement between individuals , the answer is no . ( individuals ca n't report to a credit bureau . it 's kind of a big deal to be set up to be able to do that )
It sounds like you want to lock-up your money in something relatively safe , and relatively hard to touch . You may want to consider a <URL> ( <URL> I found in a quick search ) - from what I see it 's the closest thing to a US <URL> . You wo n't get much back , but if you pick a 5-year term , you ca n't spend it * easily . Other options might be to buy an <URL> , or get into <URL> s - but that will depend on your risk comfort . Also - to add from the comment <URL> left - be sure to pay off any high-interest debts : especially if they 're on a credit card , it will help you later on . * easily . . you can withdraw , but there 're generally penalties
The bank should have sent you an official tax document with the amount of interest you paid in 2015 listed . You may be able to also download this document from the bank 's website . My own form is a third of a page printout out , so you may not think much of it when you first get that document . If your taxes were paid into escrow and then paid by the bank , the firm will also have those taxes listed on it . From your description it sounds like you paid your taxes directly . In that case your canceled checks / bank statements should suffice .
mbhunter , Here 's the portal for US Dept of Labor child employment laws : <URL> Note the first two paras : " The Fair Labor Standards Act 's ( FLSA ) minimum age requirements do not apply to minors employed by their parents , or by a person acting as their guardian . An exception to this occurs in mining , manufacturing and occupations where the minimum age requirement of 18 years old applies . State laws often follow the same pattern as the Fair Labor Standards Act with regard to minors working for their parents . Consult your state department of labor for specific guidance . " So it looks like there is no legal compulsion ; unless you are having your daughter bore engine cylinders or set explosives at the backyard silver mine .
From personal experience , the longest Rate Lock window I 've seen is 90 days . However , most lenders offer rates that can be locked in for 15/30/45 / 60 days . Keep in mind , the longer the Rate Lock timeframe the higher the rate comparatively . This is a result of the risk the lender is incurring to guarantee you that rate for that period of time . Effectively , the lender runs the risk of rates increasing ( the cost of money increasing ) while still having to honor their contractual obligation to you .
You can not carry bills over to the next year . You can only get reimbursement from your FSA for amounts incurred in the period the FSA covers , so if your FSA covers calendar year - the next year 's FSA wo n't be able to provide reimbursement for the previous year bill . Note that asking the doctor to split the bill and bill you on different days wo n't work either because you incur the cost on the day of the surgery . Misreporting to overcome that limitation is considered insurance fraud ( a felony ) . If this is not an option , then what other options could I have to cover the entire surgery with my FSA account ? None .
There is no universal " official keeper of surveys " because home surveys are not always mandatory . Some local agencies might conduct surveys on request , so it 's useful to research and find out . I 'd suggest you speak with your buyer and explain that your area does not keep surveys . Ask if he has any specific documents in mind or any prior experience in the area , and work out a plan to get a survey done or some alternative arrangement .
Short answer Get a buy-to-let mortgage from another lender . Once that 's done , arrange to port the current residential mortgage to the new property . Longer answer I asked [ Santander ] if I could get a new BTL mortgage product for my current house to continue renting it out , then move my current mortgage onto a new house . They said no , I have to sell the house . It 's possible that Santander said that because they do n't generally offer BTL mortgages . Start by <URL> . Because of the potential complications of dealing with two mortgages and two banks , you may want to use a mortgage broker . I 've had good experiences with <URL> , but others are available . Even if you pick your own mortgage , it 's useful to have someone else to harrass the banks for you . Note that brokers do charge for their services . Once you have actually applied for the BTL and have received the mortgage offer , then contact Santander to port your existing mortgage . Although in theory you will be moving an existing mortgage , in practise it 's treated as if you were applying for a brand new one ( albeit with the old terms and rate ) , so you 'll have to go through the whole process again . The important thing with regard to the BTL is to show that your rental property is not a liability . So long as , with the BTL mortgage , it 's not going to make a loss , Santander are likely to ignore it altogether . If that all works , you then arrange with your solicitor for completion on the two properties to happen simultaneously . Re " keeping it in the family " : note that some BTL mortgages specifically prohibit you from letting your property to family members . Source : me ! I 've previously done exactly what I describe above . EDIT : Regarding potentially selling or gifting to family : if doing this for a number that is well below market rate , there could be potential tax implications ; you would need to consult an accountant and/or solicitor . There are other options ; for example , if you wanted a family member to share responsibility for the BTL mortgage , you could change ownership of the property so that you own it as <URL> with unequal shares , with your relative owning a nominal share ( e.g. 1 % , or # 1 ) . Again , this is something to discuss with your solicitor before applying for the BTL .
In the US you can get a <URL> when you buy a house that will cover major repairs for the first few years of owning a home . The costs vary based on age and the results of the home inspection . Ours cost ~ $ 250 a year . This was put into our closing costs . Unfortunately this market does have some disreputable companies that come im with prices that seem too good to be true . As is usually the case they are . Do research on the company you are getting the home warrenty from to make sure you are dealing with a reputable company that will honor its commitments . By having 20 % down you will avoid needing Mortgage insurance which will save you a considerable amout . My PMI cost me about $ 70 a month . However once you get to 20 % equity in your home the pmi drops off . So if you can put down 15 % you should be able to get out from under your pmi in a few years if you want to keep that 5 % cushion while making extra payments . The question is how much do you feel you need . So far owning a 70 year old home my extra maintence costs have been around 2500 a year . But they seem to be in 1k chunks every 4 or 5 months .
I see three options , none of them ideal : Walk away from the mortgage and be willing to endure the consequences of a lousy credit record for 7 years . Take out an unsecured personal loan so you can make a lump sum payment at closing to pay off the balance . You 'll have to pay it back with interest , so this is expensive too . If you are selling because you need to relocate , you could consider retaining ownership and renting out the house . Obviously this is n't an option if you just want to get out of home ownership . And if you 're moving away , you 'll have to hire local management to deal with tenants , you may not be able to get enough in rent to cover your costs , etc. . But it could be a way to avoid a new loan or a default .
end question
start question
Hidden downsides of real-estate property tax appeal ?
I have been doing this for years on Long Island , NY where property taxes are very high . Several local law firms specialize in filing appeals for homeowners . The usual fee is 1/2 of the first year 's property tax savings with no charge if the appeal is unsuccessful . I have not found any downside to this process . You could eliminate the fee by filing your own appeal , which is possible , but it is not a simple process .
The price of real estate reacts to both demand for property and the rate of inflation and rate of income growth . Mortgage rates generally move as treasury rates move . See this paragraph : As we mentioned , intermediate term bonds and long-term mortgages ( more properly , Mortgage-Backed Securities , or MBS ) compete for the same fixed-income investor dollar . Treasury issues are 100 % guaranteed to be repaid , but mortgages are not ; therefore mortgages carry more risk of default or early repayment , which could potentially disturb the return on the investment . Therefore , mortgage rates must be priced higher to compensate for that risk . But how much higher are mortgages priced ? In a normal market , the average " spread " or markup above the 100 % secured Treasury is about 170 basis points , or 1.7 % . That markup -- the spread relationship -- widens and contracts with a range of market conditions , investor appetites and supply of available product -- as well as the presence of competing investment opportunities , like corporate bonds or domestic ( or foreign ) equity markets Source : <URL> And when the stock market crashes , investors tend to run to bonds and treasuries , which causes prices to go up and treasury yields to drop . Theoretically , this would also cause mortgage rates to drop , although most mortgage rates have a base price below which they can not fall . How easy is it to profit from recent stock market drops and at what frequency ? Incredibly difficult . The issue with your strategy is that you can not predict the bottom of the market ( at least us mortals ca n't ) . Just take the month of August for example . Stocks fell something like 15 % ? After the first 5-10 % drop , people felt that the bottom was there , so they rushed in , only to have the market fall even more . How will you know when to invest ? Even if the market falls by 50 % , and there 's a huge buying opportunity , and you increase the mortgage on your house , odds are your rates will increase because of the equity you take out . What if the market stays low for a very long time ? Will you be able to maintain mortgage payments ? Japan 's stock bubble popped in the early 90 's , and they 've had two lost decade 's now . Furthermore , there are issues of liquidity . What if you need more capital ? Can you just sell a property or can you buy now property to draw equity against ? What if the market is moving too fast for you to take advantage of . Do n't ignore transaction costs and taxes either . Overall , there are a lot of ways that your idea can go wrong , and not many ways it can go right .
Generally , the paperwork realtors use is pre-written and pre-approved by the relevant State and real-estate organizations . The offers , contracts , etc etc a pretty straightforward and standard . You can ask a realtor for a small fee to arrange the documents for you ( smaller than the usual 5 % sellers ' fee they charge , I would say 0.5 % or a couple of hundreds of dollars flat fee would be enough for the work ) . You can try and get these forms yourself , sometimes you can buy them in the neighborhood Staples , or from various law firms and legal plans that sell standard docs . You can get a lawyer to go over it with you for almost nothing : I used the LegalZoom plan for documentation review , and it cost me $ 30 ( business plan , individual is cheaper ) to go over several purchase contracts ( $ 30 is a monthly subscription , but you do n't have to pay it for more than one month ) . But these are standard , so you do it once and you know how to read them all . If you have a legal plan from work , this may cover document review and preparation . Preparing a contract that is not a standard template can otherwise cost you hundreds of dollars . Title company will not do any paperwork for you except for the deed itself . They can arrange the deed and the recording , escrow and title insurance , but they will not write a contract for the parties to use . You have to come with the contract already in place , and with escrow instructions already agreed upon . Some jurisdictions require using a lawyer in a real-estate transaction . If you 're in a jurisdiction ( usually on a county level ) that requires the transaction to go through a lawyer - then the costs will be higher .
No , unless the guest is your spouse or dependent . From the <URL> : If you itemize your deductions for a taxable year on Form 1040 , Schedule A ( PDF ) , Itemized Deductions , you may be able to deduct expenses you paid that year for medical and dental care for yourself , your spouse , and your dependents .
Is there something else I need to be thinking about here ? I 'm assuming that I will not have to pay capital gains tax on the profit from the sale because I 'm putting it into another investment property . Is this correct ? No . You 're talking about <URL> . It would be correct if you would be buying a new , similar , investment property ( you 'd be deferring the tax , not " not paying " it ) . But in this case that is not what you 're doing . You 'll have to pay the capital gains tax on the profit . For the 1031 exchange the new property has to be acquired with relation to the disposition of the old property , and within the certain period of time ( 180 days , if I remember correctly ) . Had it been your primary residence for more than 2 years in the last 5 , you might have been able to use <URL> , in which case you would not be paying tax on the excluded gains ( which is way better than deferring ... ) . Since you updated the question saying you moved out in 2007 , its not relevant for you anymore . Adding to @mhoran_psprep 's point : since it has been a rental for the last several years , you will also have a " depreciation recapture " - a situation where the IRS will tax a deduction you made ( or could have made ) for depreciation of your property . Since you can not depreciate your primary residence - the recapture can not be excluded as part of the primary residence exclusion , so on this part you will have to pay taxes . Note that this is not capital gain , and the recapture rates are different ( 25 % if I remember correctly ) . You should discuss it with your tax adviser - a EA or a CPA licensed in your state .
The most obvious answer is by referral . A friend or loved one who had a good experience with this process . I 'd suggest you first research the topic itself on your own . If you read a few books on this topic just to get an understanding , you 'll know better what to ask during the process itself , and you 'll better gauge the attorney 's expertise . The one key thing I 'd suggest is that you not go with a generalist . You need to use an attorney who only does estate planning along with the sub topics you seek . There 's enough for them to keep on top of in the way of changing laws that you do n't want a jack-of-all-trades . Her office may also handle real estate closings ( for example ) but you want her to be 100 % focused . I 've had dealings with a full service firm , but each lawyer had a narrow expertise .
You 're off-by-one ; the deadline to file for refund of TY2010 was Apr. 15 2014 . For the remaining ( in-statute ) refund years , I 'm not so sure as @littleadv it 's actually prohibited , but it certainly ca n't go through the normal logic . I had a case involving several back years " offsetting " ( but not just late filing like yours ) and found that IRS systems and procedures mostly handle each year separately ( they call it a " module " ) . Thus if it is possible to do this for your case , it probably wo n't be easy . I suggest you try the Taxpayer Advocate Service <URL> . This is an omsbudsman function funded within the IRS but reporting independently to Congress . They have discretion which cases they take , so they wo n't necessarily take yours , but if they do they can apply insider knowledge to help you ( though they still have to execute through line functions ) . Not that it helps now , but I think it might have worked to file out of order . I did experience one exception to the " each year separate " rule ; when appeals finally awarded me a refund for one back year , the IRS gladly applied it as of that back year to a debt their systems believed ( wrongly ! ) I owed on another year . If you had filed 2013 and let it be processed , then filed 2011 and 2012 and those processed okay , I am quite certain they would have " diverted " those refunds to your 2013 module -- and maybe " as of " 2012 and 2013 respectively .
Apparently GST can only apply to properties used for commercial purposes ( and not where the vendor uses it as a principal place of residence ) . Whether or not GST applies also depends on the combination of whether the vendor or purchaser or both are registered for GST . It appears to be complicated ; other factors make a difference too . There 's <URL> . You would probably be best asking for an explanation from the vendor or real estate agent , and then verifying it with the IRD ( or a lawyer ) .
Like for example I use transferwise to send $ x to my dad 's account in India , would it show my name as the depositor ? That would depend from bank to bank , it may or may not show your name . Would it be considered as income for my dad ? Assuming your parents are Indian Residents for tax purposes . No . It would be considered as Gift . Gifts between father and son are tax free in India and there is no limit . Any special care/precaution to take before using such services ? Not really . Just to be safe , keep a copy of the transfer instruction / details of debit to you account etc , so that if there is enquiry you have all the data handy . Edit : Clarifying the comment , if you are Resident Alien in US for tax purposes , you would be liable to Gift Tax [ Not your parents as they are Indian Residents and would follow Indian tax rules ] . As per IRS the liability of Gift tax is on Donor subject to limit of $ 14000 per year per Donee . So you and your wife can gift your father and mother $ 14000 each . i.e. $ 56000 each year . Anything more will be taxable or can be reduced from the overall estate limit .
I did a Google search on co-signer death , which provided a lot of results that looked useful . The top result ( from the Boston Globe ) basically says " <URL> " .
No , it is not true . That is one of the many " conspiracy theorists ' " claims to not pay taxes , and is <URL> ( i.e. : punishable by <URL> and criminal prosecution ) . Specifically to your question , the current Federal income tax framework was laid down in 1986 , with the <URL> . It is codified under the <URL> . It is usually referred to as the " Internal Revenue Code " , or IRC .
<URL> When you change property you held for personal use to rental use ( for example , you rent your former home ) , the basis for depreciation will be the lesser of fair market value or adjusted basis on the date of conversion . Fair market value . This is the price at which the property would change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller , neither having to buy or sell , and both having reasonable knowledge of all the relevant facts . Sales of similar property , on or about the same date , may be helpful in figuring the fair market value of the property . Figuring the basis . The basis for depreciation is the lesser of : The fair market value of the property on the date you changed it to rental use , or Your adjusted basis on the date of the change -- that is , your original cost or other basis of the property , plus the cost of permanent additions or improvements since you acquired it , minus deductions for any casualty or theft losses claimed on earlier years ' income tax returns and other decreases to basis . For other increases and decreases to basis , see Adjusted Basis in chapter 2 . So my guess is that your $ 40,000 is what you have to use . I am not an accountant . You should seek professional advice to clarify what the IRS means .
There are no tax implications for converting currency . If you use currency conversions as part of investment , then there would be , but in your scenario there are none .
Using any simulator will never be exactly the same as real trading . One reason is that a simulator will always execute your trades at the exact price you want , but that may not always happen in real life . For example , if you place a limit order to buy 1000 shares of a stock at 10.50 , and the price drops down to exactly 10.50 , then the simulator will execute your trade and you will have 1000 shares at 10.50 . But in real life , the price of the stock may drop to 10.50 , but other people may have buy orders ahead of you . If the price of the stock drops to 10.50 but then starts going up again , you may not get all the shares that you wanted ( or you may not even get any shares at all ) due to the fact that people were ahead of you . In real trading there is also <URL> , which you do n't see in a simulator . For example , if you have a stop order to sell 1000 shares of a stock if it drops to 7.50 , then the simulator will sell all 1000 shares at 7.50 if the price drops to 7.50 . But in real trading , if the price drops to 7.50 , then you may not be able to sell all 1000 shares at 7.50 if there 's not enough liquidity or the market is moving very fast . You may end up selling 100 shares at 7.50 , 100 shares at 7.49 , 100 shares at 7.48 , 50 shares at 7.47 , 50 shares at 7.46 , 200 shares at 7.45 , and 400 shares at 7.44 . Another thing is that you do n't experience the emotional aspect of trading with a simulator . If you buy a stock in a simulator and it goes down , it 's not real money , so you may be more willing to hold it and wait for it to come back up . But if you are trading real money and the stock goes down , you may not be so willing to hold if it goes down . You may be more apt to sell the stock for a small loss before the loss gets too big .
A tax like this means that you pay 75 % on the amount of your income over 1 million Euros . <URL> gives the current rates . So : Income Share Tax Rate Up to $ 6,011 0 % Between $ 6,012 - $ 11,991 5.5 % Between $ 11,992 - $ 26,631 14 % Between $ 26,632 - $ 71,397 30 % Between $ 71,398 - $ 151,200 41 % Above $ 151,200 45 % So if you are earning $ 1000001 , you would pay the same tax as someone earning $ 1000000 , plus an extra 75c . All income taxes work this way .
<URL> : Include taxes ( state , local , or foreign ) paid on real estate you own that was not used for business . ... If you want to make a business out of her property and be her agent in the management , you might be able to work with an accountant on this , but it wo n't be a valid personal deduction .
" I am trying to buy a property between me and a friend " - You and a friend are buying a property together ? No , the owner probably wo n't like a third party check . There are no tax consequences so long as you have a paper trail . Nothing to submit unless you are asked . Your friend and you will show joint ownership of the property , just keep a copy of the check , the statement showing the deposit , and the check used to buy the property , along will all other docs you get at closing .
Your premise is false . When you withdraw money from a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , there is no tax due . Yes , you can read that again : <URL> . They are labeled " tax free " for a good reason ! After-tax money is deposited , and then from that point forward , no tax , no tax , no tax . :-) On a " normal " , non-registered investment or savings account with no special treatment , your investment earnings will be taxed whenever gains are realized or income received ( e.g. dividends or interest ) . You will necessarily have less in a normal non-registered investment or savings account compared to a TFSA , as long as the rate of return was positive , i.e. growing . Perhaps you were thinking not of comparing a regular investment account to a TFSA , but rather to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan ( RRSP ) ? In the case of an RRSP , there is an up-front tax deduction , then earnings grow tax-deferred , and then on withdrawal , income tax is paid at regular rates . Even then , with RRSPs , if your marginal tax rate remains the same over time ( not necessarily a reasonable assumption , but let 's go with it ) then you should still realize more after-tax income from your RRSP than from a normal non-registered investment or savings account . ( Though , there 's likely an exception case when most income came as qualified dividends and the capital itself has n't appreciated . )
Real estate professionals are able to apply any losses ( in most cases due to depreciation ) to their entire federal tax obligations , personal or professional . If you own an investment property , but are not working in real estate , your investment 's losses can be applied to your tax obligations for that property only , not your overall tax liability .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
end question
start question
How is an inheritance taxed in the United States ?
It depends on how big the inheritance was . <URL> you are in the clear unless the total assets she inherits exceed $ 1 Million . Edit - In 2013 , the amount one can leave and have no federal estate tax issue is $ 5.25 M. It 's the deceased 's estate that pays the tax , not the beneficiary . So even if this were above the number , it 's received post-tax . The article linked above is current .
In a Rights Issue , you get granted rights to buy shares , but those rights can transferred if you choose not to exercise them yourself . So for example if you owned 10 shares that were worth # 5 each , a Rights Issue might grant you rights on 5 more shares at # 3 each . You could either exercise those rights , spending # 15 and thus maintaining your ownership share of the company , or you might sell them . They would have value because the shares are being offered at a discount to their true value ; in this case the value of all the shares after the Rights Issue should be # 65 ( previous value of # 50 + another # 15 injected ) / 15 ( total number of new shares ) = # 4.33 , so the rights should be worth 5x ( # 4.33 - # 3 ) = # 6.66 . This compensates you for the loss in value of your original shares , which will drop to 10x # 4.33 = # 43.33 after the Rights Issue . In an Open Offer , you can also buy the extra shares at a discount , but you ca n't sell the right to do so to anyone else , so you have to fork out the # 15 or lose the # 6.66 . Note that I 'm not certain if the actual price of the rights follows the calculation I used above , as there are other complications such as underwriting where some other institution promises to buy any shares that noone else wants , but it should at least give the general idea .
Assuming you 're in the United States , then International Equity is an equity from a different country . These stocks or stock funds ( which reside in a foreign country ) are broken out seperately becuase they are typically influenced by a different set of factors than equities in the United States : foreign currency swings , regional events and politics of various countries .
In an adjustable rate mortgage ( ARM ) , the starting interest rate is guaranteed for a certain period . After this period , the rate can go up or down . The monthly payment on these loans is calculated as if the rate never changed over the life of the loan . However , if the rate does change , the monthly payment also changes to cover the change in interest so that the mortgage is still paid off in the same amount of time . Using your example , let 's say that you have a 25-year mortgage that is a 5-year ARM . The initial interest rate is 3 % , which means that for the first 5 years , your rate is fixed at 3 % . The monthly payment for those first 5 years is the same as it would be if you had a 25-year fixed rate mortgage at 3 % . Here is the formula : <URL> where : P = monthly payment L = Loan amount c = monthly interest rate . This is the annual interest rate divided by 12 . n = number of months in the loan ( years * 12 ) In our example , if the loan is $ 100,000 , the interest rate is 3 % ( monthly interest rate is 0.25 % , or 0.0025 ) , and the number of months is 300 ( 25 years ) , the monthly payment will be $ 474.21 . Now , 5 years into a 25 year mortgage , the <URL> tells us that the remaining principal will be $ 85,505.48 . So if the rate jumps to 4 % at that point in time , the monthly payment will be recalculated so that the loan is still paid off in the original 25-year time . To find the new payment , use the above formula again , but this time L = $ 85,505.48 , c = 0.04 / 12 = 0.0033333 , and n = 20 * 12 = 240 . The new monthly payment is $ 518.15 . If , instead , you had a loan where the payment will be constant over the entire loan period , but the interest rate changes during the period ( this is not common ) , there is a formula for that as well . See <URL> for the details .
I wo n't discuss the current market as much as I will address the title question . Is selling your house without an agent worth the hassle ? It depends on who you are . Take a good hard look at yourself and ask yourself - do I know anything about houses ? the market ? the paperwork involved in a sale ? do I like talking with people I do n't know ? am I comfortable sharing my opinions , advising others , negotiating ? does anyone ever say I could sell ice to an Eskimo ? am I familiar with other neighbourhoods , features , benefits , nearby amenities , comparable homes , design elements , etc ? Am I available , do I have time to do showings , can I handle the communication , appointments , etc necessary to show the home ? What is a reasonable asking price ? How did I arrive at it ? How will I justify it to a buyer ? There is a great deal more involved with selling a home than many people think . If you read through the above list and think , I do n't even know where I would start to talk about any of this , chances are you either need an agent , or assistance from someone you trust who can help you in these areas . I watched a neighbour sell his home privately a year or two ago . He wrote up a great ad with a popular company that supports private sellers . The home had undergone many upgrades , the ad raved about them and all other related info , the price was realistic in the market at the time , and he was a gregarious , confident guy who worked in sales . He had no problem taking calls , answering questions , and had enough handyman experience and reno background that he could speak confidently about the condition of the home . He got a great price , over asking , in about 20 days . Contrast this to another person I watched list her home privately . She was quiet , a teacher , with an unassuming , though lovely personality . The home needed some upgrading but was solid and attractive , the ad was more generic , the photos were flat and unexciting . Same great neighbourhood , but you 'd never guess it from the ad . Same website . Similar market timing . She reduced , then reduced again . I think it took six months before it finally sold . I could n't have imagined her selling anything , much less a house . Or negotiating . Some people just do n't have that sales personality . Of course it 's much , much cheaper to do it on your own . But first ask yourself , are you up for the challenge ?
The U.S. requires money transfer services to be licensed under 31 USC 5330 in addition to any applicable laws at the state level . According to multiple sources online , including the thread referenced by MD-Tech 's answer , OkPay either can not or will not get a license , so they are out . I dug on this a bit more because I thought it was interesting , and OkPay has other issues with U.S. and other regulators related to its interaction with Bitcoins , which themselves are a hot potato for regulation right now and may explain the licensing problem . It seems to also be facing regulatory pressure in other countries , by the way , so it 's not strictly a problem they face in the U.S. Just for whatever reason , the problem is greater here . Some interesting summary points : With mounting pressure on online money exchanges from US regulators , payments processor OKPay has announced that it is suspending processing for all Bitcoin exchanges , including industry leader Mt. Gox . ... Earlier this month , the US Department of Homeland Security seized Mt. Gox 's account with mobile payment processor Dwolla , on allegations that the account was in violation of US Code 18 USC  1960 by operating an " unlicensed money transmitting business . " Just where the Bitcoin market falls under US law is unclear , because the legality of Bitcoin transactions has yet to be tried in court and law enforcement has refused to comment on ongoing investigations , such as the Dwolla case . <URL> In March , the US Treasury said any firms dealing in the virtual currency would be considered " money services businesses " just like any other , which means they must hand over transaction information to the government and work to prevent money laundering . <URL> In the UK , it apparently has also had trouble with banking partners ( quoting a OkPay official regarding changing bank providers ) : The UK bank that we used before did not make a final decision on whether to handle transactions in favour of crypto-currencies or not . Therefore the compliance department of the bank asked us to restrict such transfers . This apparently allowed them to reverse a policy in the UK : OKPAY 's policy shift comes just months after it stipulated that GBP users check a box , verifying that their funds would not be spent on cryptocurrency , a feature that further incited users . <URL> I had n't heard of this company prior to your question , but having done some research , I tend to think that at least the part of this quote about language , attributed to a user , is true : OKPAY are quite paranoid about AML and another problem is that their support people seem to be very bad at English , so their replies are often hard to understand . Their support are also slow [ sic ] . However in my experience they are an honest company . I found at least one case where rumors that the entire company were going to shut down were traced back to a poorly translated message issued by the company . Again , I know only what I read just now about this company , but it looked like there were a few red flags - the problems with the US probably not being the most important . This type of service is probably part of the future , but I 'm not sure that I 'd send money through it now in its current state or organization and regulation .
Depends on the State . In California , for example , you pay a franchise tax of $ 800 every year just for having LLC , and in addition to that - income tax on gross revenue . But in other States ( like Wyoming , for example ) there 's no taxes at all , only registration fees ( which may still amount to ~ $ 100-300 a year ) . IRS does n't care about LLC 's at all ( unless you chose to treat is as a corporation ) . You need to understand that in the US we have the " Federal Government " ( IRS is part of that ) and the " State Government " that deals with business entities , in each of the 50 States . Since you 're talking about Italy , and not EU , you should similarly be talking about the relevant State , and not US .
In such a situation , is it really safe to give financial info to a person who does not encrypt it ? Encryption only helps to an extent . i.e. during transmission of data or during brute force makes it more difficult to get the real data . However you concern is more of staff using this data , which encryption will not help much as they would be able to decrypt and see the data . In what ways could it be misused ? This depends on the type of data . The financial data can be used to hack into your accounts if other bits of info are known . i.e. most of the times on Telephone requests ; say putting card on hold , requesting balance on account , etc ; only your address , mother maiden name , last few transaction details are asked . Some critical requests need more ID proofs ; so generally not of concern . The other misuse would be selling this to marketing companies , so that you can be bombarded with sales pitch for anything and everything . The PAN and other ID documents are becoming more prone to mis-use . i.e. give a copy of PAN to open fraudulent accounts etc. . A good practise would be to mark every copy of ID proof you give with the purpose as to why its given and a date . This would make the ID proof stale to an extent . If she is not going to encrypt it , should I ask her to delete all my old data and then create a new profile for my communication with her ; the new profile not being my name , but a fake name ? The regulations would not allow her to create fake accounts and may lead to issues and as such any recognised financial advisor would not allow this to be done . Quite a few countries have regulations for financial advisor 's that need to be adhered to .
The denominator is the fund value . The expenses are taken from the fund over the course of the year , so you 're not going to find a way to sell one day , skip the fee , and buy back . The daily pricing is net of expenses , so you do n't subtract . In the case of the Vanguard 500 mimicking the S&amp;P , you 'll see it lags the S&amp;P return by the advertised .05 % .
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ( SIFMA ) publishes these and other relevant data on their <URL> , in the " Treasury &amp; Agency " section . The <URL> contains annual and monthly data with bins for varying maturities . These data only go back as far as January 2001 ( in most cases ) . SIFMA also publishes <URL> with monthly data for bills , notes , bonds , etc. going back as far as January 1980 . Most of this information comes from the <URL> , so that 's another source of specific information that you could aggregate yourself . Somewhere I have a parser for the historical data ( since the Treasury does n't provide it directly ; it 's only available as daily text files ) . I 'll post it if I can find it . It 's buried somewhere at home , I think .
If you are n't familiar with <URL> , it 's worth looking at . This is a mechanism using a Canadian brokerage account to simultaneously execute one stock trade in CAD and one in USD . The link I provided claims that it only starts potentially making sense somewhere in the 10,000 + range .
Every country has a regulatory body or an association that issues and maintains a registry of these numbers . In the United States the numbers were originally issued by ABA [ American Banker 's Association ] to identify a Bank so that paper checks could be routed easily . These numbers are also used by Fedwire and ACH . The article on wikipedia explains this in more detail . <URL> There is a code in the Card numbers issued by Visa and Mastercard . This was again to help identify the network where the transactions need to be settled and avoid duplicate numbering across Visa and Mastercard . As the Routing numbers on Banks are used predominantly in the US for US payments , there is not much of an advantage . However it can be of help to figure of some of the scams in place . For example if one receives an message saying you have won something and requests a payment giving the Bank details of a leading Bank [ say Bank of America ] , however the routing number is of some small time credit union ; then its a dead give away . The similar example for SWIFT BIC ID 's used for international payments , where one is requested to make payment to a Bank in US or UK , the unsuspecting user who believes that there are enough regulation in these countries may make a payment , however the BIC given in the instruction would be of a Bank in some African country . So knowing the numbers definately help in certain cases .
In general , things to look for are : How high is is the account 's rate of return ? How easy is it to access your money ? Things to look out for : Minimum monthly amounts to put into checking accounts , or you 'll be dinged with a monthly fee Large expense ratios in " mutual funds " you invest into , or $ 5 + dollar expenses when investing in mutual funds . I 'd recommend two places : Find a high interest HSA savings account . For example , <URL> currently offers 1.5 % to members without direct deposit , 2.5 % to members with $ 500 direct deposit in a checking account . EDIT : SFCU has dropped their rates substantially and is not a recommended bank for this purpose . For longer term investments , consider <URL> which have Vanguard Admiral funds . Realize this is a bit more risky if you 're depositing/withdrawing money often , but it can pay off assuming the stock/bond market has a higher rate of return . This is , however , risky , as many people mention that you should not plan on having " growth " in a mutual fund like this unless you keep and hold money there for 3 or more years . Additionally , the customer service of Fulton Bank is awesome . I 'd recommend reading up on HSA 's in this <URL> .
First thing to consider is that getting your hands on an IPO is very difficult unless you have some serious clout . This might help a bit in that department ( <URL> ) However , assuming you accept all that risk and requirements , YES - you can buy stocks of any kind in the US even if you are a foreigner . There are no laws prohibiting investment/buying in the US stock market . What you need is to get an online trading account from a registered brokerage house in the US . Once you are registered , you can buy whatever that is offered .
There are circumstances under which you do n't have to pay the penalty : You die and the account is paid to your beneficiary You become disabled You withdraw an amount less than is allowable as a medical expense deduction You begin substantially equal periodic payments Your withdrawal is related to a qualified domestic relations order ( QDRO ) Your withdrawal is used to pay qualified higher education expenses Your withdrawal is used for a qualified " first-home " purchase ( up to $ 10,000 ) ( <URL> ) Unless it is one of those circumstances , your 10 % penalty is on the pre-tax amount of the withdrawal that is subject to income tax ( so if some of it is not , then there is no penalty on that amount ) . Some states may also impose additional penalties . More <URL> . Note that the other penalty you pay is a hidden one - the lost opportunity cost of letting that money stay in place and grow until age 591/2 or later .
A fee note is the same as an invoice . There are VAT reasons behind issuing a fee note , but from the receivers perspective , it still needs to be paid in the same way as you 'd pay an invoice .
There really is n't a way to do it that much more quickly . Some major factors to help you build credit : 1 . Pay on time : Late payments will kill your rating . 2 . Keep accounts open a long time : The average age of your credit accounts is a big factor . 3 . Keep the balances on each credit account low as a % of your line . Try not to go over 50 % of your credit limit , even if you pay in full every month . 4 . Open different kinds of loan accounts ( credit cards , mortgage , auto , etc. ) 5 . Having a lot of new credit accounts hurts you , unfortunately . Luckily # 1 and # 2 , the ones you have the most immediate control over , make up over 55 % of your total score .
Mortgage rates are determined in what is known as the " TBA " ( to be announced ) market . Most indices are in some way a function of the rate determined in this underlying market . From <URL> : Pass-through securities issued by Freddie Mac , Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae trade in the TBA market . The term TBA is derived from the fact that the actual mortgage-backed security that will be delivered to fulfill a TBA trade is not designated at the time the trade is made . The securities are " to be announced " 48 hours prior to the established trade settlement date . The mortgage rates determined in this market do correlate rather closely to rates in the parallel Treasury market , as many TBA traders are active in both markets ( usually for hedging duration , or overall interest rate risk , with Treasuries , in the case of mortgage traders ) and most traders think of the market in terms of their " spread " over Treasuries ( although there is no universal way to measure this spread , many models exist ) .
I do n't think there is any other solution that the one you are adopting . More info at <URL> <URL>
If all the property is going up and down at the same rate , it 's probably a bit of a wash . However , there are markets ( e.g. the Front Range of Colorado , where I live ) , where property at different price levels and locations has performed very differently . For a place to live , I think it 's most useful to look at housing as a consumption decision , like buying a car , rather than an investment decision , like buying art ( since it is similarly illiquid ) . Consider what you need and want ( features , location ) , how important the " own vs rent " tradeoffs are to you ( including the risk of losing your equity ) , and what you can comfortably afford . Then do n't worry so much about price trends . This , it seems to me , is the lesson of the recent housing bust .
end question
start question
Stability of a Broker : What if your broker goes bankrupt ? Could you lose equity in your account ?
The <URL> is roughly analogous to the FDIC for investments . There are some important differences like a lack of 100 % guarantee you get all of your funds back . The SIPC understands you invested knowing there was some risk , and therefore you take that same risk in getting your money from a failed brokerage . However there is still a level of commitment and trust that lessen the risk of investing in the wrong place . Also , do not typo the acronym at your work computer . In the US ( and perhaps elsewhere ) it is a racist term , and you are likely to get some bad search results . <URL>
Here are a couple of articles that can help highlight the differences between a broker and an online investment service , which seems to be part of the question that you 're asking . Pay attention to the references at the end of this link . <URL> Investopedia also highlights some of the costs and benefits of each side , broke and online investment services . <URL> To directly answer your question , a broker may do anything from using a website to making a phone call to submitting some other form of documentation . It is unlikely that he is talking directly to someone on the trading floor , as the volume traded there is enormous .
Late-payment fees , damage to your credit , and the risk that you might not actually get to sell and may therefore miss more than just one or two payments .
You need a budget . You need to know how much you make and how much you spend . How much you earn and what you choose to spend you money on is your choice . You have your own tolerance for risk and your own taste and style , so lifestyle and what you own is n't something that we can answer . The key to your budget is to really understand where you money goes . Maybe you are the sort of person who needs to know down to the penny , maybe you are a person who rounds off . Either way you should have some idea . <URL> and <URL> Once you know what you budget is , here are some pretty standard steps to get started . Each point is a full question in of itself , but these are to give you a place to start thinking and learning . Use your budget to spend less than you make . Use your budget to save for expensive things you want ( car , house , vacation , electronics ) Carry no consumer debt ( like credit cards ) Save up an emergency fund Save for your retirement Invest a little , spend a little just for fun . You might have other priorities like a charity or other organizations that go into your priority like . Regardless of your career path and salary , you will need a budget to understand where you money is , where it goes , and how you can reach your goals and which goals are reasonable to have .
At your age , I do n't think its a bad idea to invest entirely in stocks . The concern with stocks is their volatility , and at 40 + years from retirement , volatility does not concern you . Just remember that if you ever want to call upon your 401 ( k ) for anything other than retirement , such as a down payment on a home ( which is a qualified distribution that is not subject to early distribution penalties ) , then you should reconsider your retirement allocations . I would not invest 100 % into stocks if I knew I were going to buy a house in five years and needed that money for a down payment . If your truly saving strictly for a retirement that could occur forty years in the future , first good for you , and second , put it all in an index fund . An S&amp;P index has a ridiculously low expense ratio , and with so many years away from retirement , it gives you an immense amount of flexibility to choose what to do with those funds as your retirement date approaches closer every year .
There are actual cases where this has occurred . In cases where the beneficiary was suspected of knowing that the insured person was alive , they have faced fraud charges . In cases where they appeared to act in good faith , the legal consequences are less severe , but the likelihood of the insurance company to sue for their money back will depend on the circumstances and the amount of the payout . <URL> was a woman who abandoned her family and did n't reappear until 11 years later . The family did n't know where she was , so they probably wo n't end up paying back the relatively small $ 100,000 that they received .
From the Times <URL> Q. I own G.M. preferred shares . Should I be looking to sell them , or hold on ? I bought them at $ 25 a share when they were issued in late 2001 . -- Karen , Manhattan A . When a company files for bankruptcy , its various stock and bondholders essentially get in line . The first investors to be repaid are secured debt holders , then senior bond investors , followed by subordinated debt holders . Preferred shareholders are next , and lastly , holders of common stock . In a bankruptcy , preferred shares are usually worthless , much like shares of common stock . But in the case of G.M. , there may be some good -- or at least somewhat better -- news . Most of G.M. 's preferred shares are actually senior notes or " quarterly interest bonds , " which means you will be treated as a bondholder , according to Marilyn Cohen , president of Envision Capital Management . So you will be able to exchange your preferreds for G.M. stock ( bondholders will receive 10 percent of the new company 's stock ) . It 's not the best deal , but it beats the empty bag true preferred shareholders would have been left holding . Of course this is just one example , and you were hoping to get some larger picture . The article stated " In a bankruptcy , preferred shares are usually worthless , much like shares of common stock " which at least is a bit closer to that , if you accept usually as a statistic .
according to the Options Industry council ( <URL> ) put options the shares ( and therefore the options ) may continue trading OTC but if the shares completely stop trading then : if the courts cancel the shares , whereby common shareholders receive nothing , calls will become worthless and an investor who exercises a put would receive 100 times the strike price and deliver nothing . The reason for this is that it is not the company whose shares you have the option on that you have a contract with but the counterparty who wrote the option . If the counterparty goes bankrupt then you may not get paid out ( depending on assets available at liquidation - this is counterparty risk ) but , unless the two are the same , if the company whose shares you have a put option on declares bankruptcy then you will get paid
I got notice from Charles Schwab that the forms were n't being mailed out until the middle of February because , for some reason , the forms were likely to change and rather than mail them out twice , they mailed them out once . Perhaps some state tax laws took effect ( such as two Oregon bills regarding tax rates for higher incomes ) and they waited on that . While I have n't gotten my forms mailed to me yet , I did go online and get the electronic copies that allowed me to finish my taxes already .
I think I understand what you 're trying to achieve . You just want to see how it " feels " to own a share , right ? To go through the process of buying and holding , and eventually selling , be it at a loss or at a gain . Frankly , my primary advice is : Just do it on paper ! Just decide , for whatever reason , which stocks to buy , in what amount , subtract 1 % for commissions ( I 'm intentionally staying on the higher side here ) , and keep track of the price changes daily . Instead of doing it on mere paper , some brokers offer you a demo account where you can practice your paper trading in the same way you would use a live account . As far as I know , Interactive Brokers and Saxo Bank offer such demo accounts , go look around on their web pages . The problem about doing it for real is that many of the better brokers , such as the two I mentioned , have relatively high minimum funding limits . You need to send a few thousand pounds to your brokerage account before you can even use it . Of course , you do n't need to invest it all , but still , the cash has to be there . Especially for some younger and inexperienced investors , this can seduce them to gambling most of their money away . Which is why I would not advise you to actually invest in this way . It will be expensive but if it 's just for trying it on one share , use your local principal bank for the trade . Hope this gets you started !
Call or write in for a copy of your transcripts ? <URL> Of if you need the exact return itself <URL>
Safe deposit boxes are rented out to customers , and their content is not bank 's property . Money deposits are not being taken by the creditors if a bank goes bankrupt , for the same reason - its not bank 's money , it belongs to the depositors . However , frequently banks go bankrupt because they do not have enough cash at hand to pay back the depositors . In this case , unless insured ( up to $ 250K in the US , EUR100K in EU ) , some or all of the deposits may not be immediately ( or even at all ) available . Depositors become creditors of the bank in the bankruptcy proceedings . Safe deposit box , however , is rented to the customer , and the content is not removed by the bank to be used elsewhere , as happens with monetary deposits . So even if the bank is bankrupt and does n't have enough money to cover the monetary deposits , the content of the safe deposit boxes does n't magically disappear , and the owner can get it back . The access to the deposit box itself may be limited due to the bankruptcy , but the content will remain there waiting for its owners . In the United States , when a bank goes bankrupt , FDIC takes over it and its assets . Safe deposit box rental contract is an asset . It is taken over by the FDIC and will be sold to a buyer ( usually as a part of the whole branch where the box is located ) , who will continue operating/servicing it .
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
Look for offers for 0 % ( or low ) APR on balance transfers . It is more likely to get a promotional APR on balance transfer , than to lower the APR you already have . Of course , try to pay off the balance as long as you 're in the period of the promotion , because otherwise you 'll end up paying the high rate again . If you can not get such an offer ( low credit etc ) - then just try to pay off ASAP and start rebuilding your credit , not much workarounds there . BTW : When you consider the balance transfer promotions - look at 3 things : The promotion period - when it ends , so that you 'd know how much time you have to pay it off . The balance transfer fee - usually the balance transfer itself is not free , and you pay 3-5 % on the transfer . If you have 0 % APR for 12 months , it makes it effectively 5 % APR ( for the 5 % fee ) , if the period is lesser - the APR is higher . Take that into the account . The APR after the promotion , in case you ca n't pay off in that time frame .
It includes income for both spouses , as it is calculated from a version of your tax return ( which includes both your incomes ) , as shown in <URL> . There is <URL> about limit on a traditional IRA deduction if a spouse is covered by a retirement plan .
FICO score tracks credit , not checking or savings . Unless there was a credit line attached , no impact at all .
Unfortunately assets placed in a safety deposit box are not covered under the Federal Deposit Insurance Program ( FDIC ) . Unless the bank is found to be negligent in the way it handled or protected your safety deposit box , neither them nor their private insurance company will reimburse you for the loss . Find out if in the duration you had your box with them , they moved , transitioned or merged with another entity . In this specific situation , you may be able to demonstrate negligence on the part of the banks as they have seemingly misplaced your box during their transition phase , and depending upon the value of the items placed in your safety deposit box , you may be entitled to some form of recovery . Some homeowner 's insurance policies may also cover the loss , but if you did n't document what you kept in the box , you have difficulty verifying proof of the value . Valuables are often lost but documents can often be reconstructed . You can get stock and bonds by paying a fee for new certificates . For wills and trusts , you can reach out to the lawyer that prepared them for a copy . You should always keep 3 copies of such documents . When you put stuff in the box , always videotape it ( photographs can be challenged ) but if the video shows it was put in there , although it can still be taken out by you after you turn off the camera , yields more weight in establishing content and potential value . Also know the value of the items and check with your homeowner policy to make sure the default amount covers it , if not then you may need to include a rider to add the difference in value and the video , receipts , appraisals and such will serve you well in the future in such unfortunate circumstances . If the contents of a safety deposit box are lost because you did n't pay the fee , then depending on the state you are in the time frame might vary ( 3 years on average ) , but none the less they are sent to the State 's unclaimed property/funds department . You can search for these online often times or by contacting the state . It would help for you to find out which scenario you are in , their fault or yours , and proceed accordingly . Good luck .
Your best approach is to assess rent levels in your local area for offices of a similar size . You need to take into account all the usuals - amenities , parking , etc , just as if your home-office was provided by a third-party . Get your $ / sq ft and work out the monthly amount . With this figure , you need to then work out what % of it you can charge . If the space is used exclusively for the business , charge 100 % . If it 's used about half the time , charge 50 % , etc. . I would strongly advise you to do two things - 1 . make sure your accountant and your attorney help you get this squared away . 2 . document everything about how you arrived at the cost . Nothing fancy , but dates , realtors , addresses , $ / sq foot . A simple table will do . By doing these two things , if the IRS should come around to chat , you should be covered .
Did you have an agreement with the company , in advance , that you were performing a service for them at a stipulated rate ? Else , your " work " was pro-bono , charity , free , whatever you want to call it . Too bad , so sad . On the other hand , if you did suffer demonstrable damages as a result of their error , you could try and pursue it in court , but , 2 hours of your time ? ... good luck with that ;-) Your best bet is to ask for some kind of credit , if you 're willing to put a bit more time into it and talk to the right people at the company . But you might get nothing . While a credit is n't cash , if you were to continue using their services , it 's something , and some companies make it a practice to offer credit to satisfy a long-time customer 's complaint .
CODI is cancellation-of-debt income . Since BBEP is a partnership , the " income " generated from the cancellation of debt could potentially be passed back to the partners which could generate a tax liability to you . You would have to look at the books to determine the debt load per unit to understand what that might mean for your 1000 units . The most recent quarterly filing is here : <URL> From the books there is about $ 3.4 billion in total liabilities . There are several tranches of debt though and I 'm not sure how much of which tranche would be cancelled . It looks like there are about 213 million units which calculates to total liabilities of about $ 16 per unit . It 's not likely all of the debt will be cancelled , in fact its extremely unlikely .
end question
start question
Should I wait until I have a 20 % down payment to buy a home ?
I say yes . The realtors will have you think you 're missing a golden opportunity no matter how the market actually is . ( I know , I 've asked them before AND after the bubble burst ) . You actually save a LOT of money renting longer . The interest , PMI , HOA , insurance , repairs , extra utilities furniture all costs you would n't have spent renting . People always buy a house bigger than they need , while renting you can move only when you need extra space . In short - think of a house as an expense , not as an investment . Do n't buy a house until the expense is worth it on its own .
I would put down 12 % and pay PMI . Either way , you are taking out a loan , with payments against 88 % of the value of the home . I assume the mortgage note would be either 15 or 30 years and the 401k loan would be less ( 5 ? 10 ? ) . If you take out an 88 % mortgage loan and pay it off at the same pace you would have paid the 401k loan , you 'll be down to 80 % LTV quickly and PMI will stop . If the housing market rebounds and your house appreciates , you 'll be at 80 % LTV quickly . If you change jobs/lose jobs your mortgage will be unaffected . PMI is an easily quantifiable risk that is worth paying in this case . Contrasted with the 401k loan , the job loss/job change risk is great . It is n't just if you lose your job . Maybe you 'll find a great opportunity with a great company that has a 401k plan that does n't allow loans . Will you forgo taking that job because of your 401k loan ?
The time horizon is usually very short for a home down payment . I would use Certificates of Deposit ( CDs ) with a short maturity ( in the horizon of your intended use ) or Money Market accounts . Depending on what the interests rates are where you are looking . You do n't want the money in the market 100 % ( i.e. stocks ) as the fluctuations might be too wide around the time you intend to pull the money out ( and that will be soon ) .
The reason I do n't know of any banks who would offer this to you ( even if you held the investment account with their bank ) is that there is no upside to the bank . It is a good idea for you , but what would they have to gain from this arrangement ? The reason banks require a down payment is underwriting quality . If you can afford a significant down payment , they know that there is a significantly lower chance that you will default . However , if you were to provide an investment account as collateral , you would receive all the upside , and any downside would reduce their collateral as a percent of the amount loaned . This sort of idea could potentially work along the lines of a margin call ( ie you have to provide additional capital if your asset value drops ) , but this would have the effective of leveraging the bank 's risk , when their objective is to lower their risk through requiring a down payment . I do n't see a reason why the bank would take on the risk that you would need to provide additional capital down the road with no upside for them . Additionally , many banks have backed away from the kinds of zero-down-payment and negative-amortization-ARM loans that got them ( or the people they sold them to ) in trouble over the last few years in an effort to reduce how much risk they take on . I think that in theory , you 'd have to offer a lot more benefit to the bank , and that in practice it 's probably a non-starter right now .
I would say yes : it 's worth building additional retirement savings on top of a <URL> ( plans that pay set annual income ) . Here are a couple of reasons : Do n't put all your eggs in one basket . While <URL> is probably in good shape , things can and do happen to pension plans . While there is a provincial system in place to guarantee some of your pension income ( $ 1000/mo ) if your plan goes bust , your benefits are not 100 % guaranteed . Defined benefit pension plans are designed to provide recurring annual income , like your paycheck when you are employed . You ca n't " take more out " from your defined benefit pension plan when an emergency comes up . Whereas , your RRSP ( and eventually RRIF , in retirement ) are accounts from which you can take out extra in any given year , if necessary . That being said , Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ) wo n't let you save as much in your RRSP as other people who do n't have pension plans : Normally , individuals in Canada are entitled to save 18 % of their earned income , up to a limit ( $ 21000 in 2009 ) in an RRSP each year . However , to level the playing field , individuals who are in a pension plan get a " Pension Adjustment " ( PA ) number on their T4 which reduces their available RRSP contribution room . Otherwise , they 'd be able to tax-shelter more income for retirement than others . So , I would suggest if you have the RRSP room , consider using it . I 'd also suggest you look at a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , especially if you do n't have much RRSP room due to the pension adjustment . If you 're not sure whether to use an RRSP or a TFSA , <URL> .
Do some math . Figure out the net ( after tax ) money you 'd have if you left it taxable , then look at the difference . In effect , you 'd pay $ X ( the tax now ) for $ Y benefit ( the tax on the full benefit not paid ) . The math works similar to you buying a small policy on your own .
You 're halfway done with the debt elimination . Keep up the good work . The student loan debt will get in your way a couple of ways when you look to finance a house . First , your debt to income ratio will be higher than without the debt , so you 'll be able to qualify for a smaller loan with the debt than without . Second , you 'll have the student loan payments in addition to your mortgage . This may wear on you . I 'd look for ways to make extra money to knock out those student loan debts ASAP . The rates are n't horrible . That , and I think there is still some time before the housing market bottoms out , so you do n't need to rush into the house . If you can handle the entire debt load ( student loans + mortgage ) then if you save up for the down payment , that money is n't being used to pay down your student loans , and paying your students loans off wo n't get any easier when you get a mortgage on top of that .
Here are a couple of articles that can help highlight the differences between a broker and an online investment service , which seems to be part of the question that you 're asking . Pay attention to the references at the end of this link . <URL> Investopedia also highlights some of the costs and benefits of each side , broke and online investment services . <URL> To directly answer your question , a broker may do anything from using a website to making a phone call to submitting some other form of documentation . It is unlikely that he is talking directly to someone on the trading floor , as the volume traded there is enormous .
Evaluate if the Rs 5 million term insurance is sufficient . Typically the term insurance provided by employer is in the range of 1 to 3 times the gross . Generally one should be covered in the range of 5 to 10 times the Gross . The sooner you start the lesser the premium and you can get insured for a large amount for a long duration at very nominal rate . NOTE : Buy Term plan only and not other plans like money back or ULIPS etc. . The only flip side of having insurance from employer only is that in between jobs it exposes you to a risk . You can also buy a health insurance for your father , note these typically come at high cost , generally if over 70 years of age , 25 % is the premium amount and 25 % as co-pay . So if your dad does n't fall ill once in 3 years , its a loss making proposition . Edit : Accident insurance best take is along with rider on term plan . Additional Health insurance is a good idea and helps if you are in between jobs . Plus the new company health insurance can reject a particular treatment as " Pre-Existing " . i.e. certain illness [ in certain plans ] require one to have coverage for 3 years before the claim for it can be covered .
Does the company see itself expanding into new product lines or new territories ? What is the current predicted growth for the company 's earnings for the next 5 years ? These would generally be where I 'd look for growth in companies . In the case of Costco , there may be a perception of the company as being a " safe " company as the market capitalization for the stock is over $ 50 billion which is rather large . Thus , there is something to be said for Costco providing a dividend and may well weather the current market for an idea compared to holding funds in money markets that are paying nothing in some cases . There is also something to be said for looking at the industry and sector values that Costco is in where on <URL> , I find the P/E for the industry and sector to be 35.05 and 28.47 , respectively . Thus , Costco is n't as inflated as the other stocks in the same ballpark for another idea here .
I do n't have all the information yet , but I 'm struggling with this one myself . If Obama 's deal w / the Republicans ( to extend the Bush era tax cuts for 2 more years ) does go through , then doing this conversion will be a bit cheaper , since your marginal tax rate on regular income ( which is , I believe , how the funds converted would be characterized ) would remain a few % lower for 2011 and 2012 ( vs the increase going into effect in 2011 without that deal ) . Forget about that for a second though . The big thing about doing the conversion in 2010 vs. 2011 is that if you do it in 2010 , you get to defer half of the taxable income the conversion creates by 1 year . So if you converted $ 50,000 in 2010 , instead of adding $ 50,000 taxable income all in one year , you spread that $ 50,000 ( evenly ) over 2 tax years . That 's a double win : * you do n't owe taxes on that 2nd half ( $ 25k ) of the funds converted for a whole extra year * spreading out that peak in income may allow me to avoid hitting a higher tax bracket , so I 'll pay less absolute taxes overall If you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket , that let 's you defer the payment of $ 6,250 ( 25 % of $ 25k taxable income deferred ) in taxes by one year . If you 're debt free and you had enough cash flow to cover that payment now , then at least you get to invest that money for another year . For others though , this deferral may be a deciding factor in whether they can afford to do the conversion at all , or allow them to pay down high interest debts ( almost always the highest-yielding investment decision a person can make ) . After Dec 31st of this year though , you have to take 100 % of the conversion as taxable income all in one year .
The simple answer : Because you believe every other option can yield greater losses ... So the thinking is ; Lend it to France you 'll get your money back . Put your money in a bank and there 's a chance you wo n't get it back if the bank goes bust . Investors also believe that rates will continue to go more negative , in which case they will actually MAKE money . It 's a momentum play which will eventually reverse but since the Bond market is extremely liquid , it 's a bet that can quickly be unwound . Another theory floating around is that if the weaker countries of the euro leave ( e.g. Greece , etc ) and the core keep the euro , then the value of the euro will actually rise . So by putting your money in French or German bonds you would also be securing cash in French or German euro 's . - <URL> - Gavyn Davies
You got it right . It is in part III of the form ( form 8829 , that is , in its current form ) . You pay 25 % tax on the amounts deducted as depreciation . That is if you sell at more that your current ( = post depreciation ) basis . Talk to your tax adviser about the details . He may be able to help you getting the old forms if you did n't keep the copies , you 'll definitely need them . You 'll have to request the copies from the IRS .
There are several issues with paying for furniture and appliances with 0 % credit instead of paying with cash . When you pay with 0 % credit , you might be tempted to spend more on something than you would have if you paid with cash , because it feels like free money , and you 've justified in your mind that the extra you earn will help pay for the more expensive item . Businesses do n't offer 0 % credit for free , and they do n't lose money on the deal . When you shop at a store that offers 0 % credit , you are generally overpaying for the item . By shopping at a store that does not offer 0 % credit , you might be able to get a better price . Your savings account is likely earning very little interest . You might invest the money you intend for your purchases in a place that gets better returns , but in most of these places the returns are not guaranteed , and you might not do as well as you think . 0 % loans typically come with lots of conditions that have very heavy penalties and interest rate hikes for late payments . You can mitigate this risk by setting up automatic payments , but things can still go wrong . Your bank might change your account number , making the automated payment fail . As you mentioned , you might also forget to put the proper amount of money in the account . A single mistake can negate all of the tiny gains you are trying to achieve . Ultimately , the decision is yours , of course , but in my opinion , there is very , very little to gain with buying something on 0 % credit when you could be paying cash .
There are a few reasons why an index mutual fund may be preferable to an ETF : Index mutual funds do n't typically have transaction fees and ETFs usually do because ETFs trade like stocks . If you pursue a dollar cost averaging strategy ( i.e. buying stocks every two weeks ) , ETF transaction costs can add up . Fractional index mutual fund shares can be owned , so you can invest a constant amount in an index mutual fund ( which also works well with a dollar cost averaging strategy ) . You ca n't buy 18.3 shares of an ETF . Similar to stocks , ETFs have liquidity risk . ETFs can trade at a premium or discount to Net Asset Value , similar to a close-ended mutual fund ( this means the price of an ETF can stray from the value of its underlying assets ) . I looked at the <URL> and it has an expense ratio of 0.07 % . The Vanguard Admiral S&amp;P 500 index has an expense ratio of 0.05 % and the Investor Shares have an expense ratio of 0.17 % , do I do n't necessarily agree with your statement " admiral class Vanguard shares do n't beat the iShares ETF " .
Yes , you can certainly keep it in a savings account until you spend it . You 'll get much less interest than you will be paying on the loan , but it will be better than nothing . However , you may want to ask if you can use the loan flexibly instead - i.e. only " draw down " the money you need when you need it , and not start paying interest until that happens . That would save you a lot more money . Note that the ISA limit is currently # 5,760 and the limit is on total deposits so you wo n't be able to reuse the amount later in the tax year . Since that ends on April 5th that probably wo n't be an issue for you .
As a new graduate , aside from the fact that you seem to have the extra $ 193/mo to pay more towards your loan , we do n't know anything else . I wrote a lengthy article on this in response to a friend who had a loan , but was also pondering a home purchase in the future . <URL> discusses the math behind one 's ability to put a downpayment on a house vs having that monthly cash to pay towards the mortgage . In your case , the question is whether , in 5 years , the $ 8500 would be best spent as a home down payment or to pay off the 6.8 % loan . If you specifically had plans toward home ownership , the timing of that plan would affect my answer here , as I discuss in the article . The right answer to your question can only come by knowing far more of your personal situation . Does your employer offer a matched 401 ( k ) ( or other matched retirement account if you are not in the US ) , and are you depositing the full amount to capture that match ? It makes little sense to set aside funds to pay off a 6.8 % loan if you are leaving a 50 or 100 % match on the table . Do you have any other high interest debt ? 18 % card takes priority over this loan . What is the nature of your current savings and rate of savings ? An emergency fund or funds that would take care of unexpected expenses , including bridging the gap during a time of unemployment is an important first step for the new grad . Start by hitting the first $ 1000 , $ 2000 , etc. . But ultimately , you want X months worth of expenses to have a true safety net . Meanwhile , the plan comes at a cost . Your plan will get rid of the loan in about 5 years , but if you simply double up the payments , advising the servicing company to apply the extra to principal , it would drop to just a couple month over over 4 . As you read more about personal finance , you 'll find a lot of different views . Some people are fixated on having zero debt , others will focus on liquidity . In the end , you need to understand each approach and decide what 's right for you .
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
In the United States , post-dating a check , on its own , has no valid use . It can be cashed at any time at the discretion of the bank . You would need to send a notice of postdating to your bank describing the check . This does n't prevent the recipient of cashing the check , but it does prevent your bank from charging your account until the date you specify NOTE : This may be considered a form of stop payment , and you may be subject to the fees noted by your institution . Source : [ <URL> ] ( c ) A bank may charge against the account of a customer a check that is otherwise properly payable from the account , even though payment was made before the date of the check , unless the customer has given notice to the bank of the postdating describing the check with reasonable certainty . [ ... ] If a bank charges against the account of a customer a check before the date stated in the notice of postdating , the bank is liable for damages for the loss resulting from its act . The loss may include damages for dishonor of subsequent items under <URL> .
I say yes . The realtors will have you think you 're missing a golden opportunity no matter how the market actually is . ( I know , I 've asked them before AND after the bubble burst ) . You actually save a LOT of money renting longer . The interest , PMI , HOA , insurance , repairs , extra utilities furniture all costs you would n't have spent renting . People always buy a house bigger than they need , while renting you can move only when you need extra space . In short - think of a house as an expense , not as an investment . Do n't buy a house until the expense is worth it on its own .
end question
start question
Investing in commodities , pros and cons ?
The main advantage of commodities to a largely stock and bond portfolio is diversification and the main disadvantages are investment complexity and low long-term returns . Let 's start with the advantage . Major commodities indices and the single commodities tend to be uncorrelated to stocks and bonds and will in general be diversifying especially over short periods . This relationship can be complex though as Oil and non-precious metals often see the demand fall in a crisis Agriculture ( especially non-meat ) tends to have fairly consistent demand as people need to eat Precious metals often have high demand in a particularly bad crisis Supply can be even more complicated ( think weather ) so diversification may or may not work in your favor over long periods . However , trading in commodities can be very complex and expensive . Futures need to be rolled forward to keep an investment going . You really , really do n't want to accidentally take delivery of <URL> . Also , you need to properly take into account <URL> when choosing the closing date for a future . This can be made easier by using commodities index ETFs but they can also have <URL> and generally have higher fees than stock index ETFs . Most importantly , it is worth understanding that the long-term return from commodities should be by definition ( roughly ) the inflation rate . With stocks and bonds you expect to make more than inflation over the long term . This is why many large institutions talk about commodities in their portfolio they often actually mean either short term tactical/algorithmic trading or long term investments in stocks closely tied to commodities production or processing . The two disadvantages above are why commodities are not recommended for most individual investors .
<URL> is into businesses that supply the original business ; downstream is into businesses that make use of the original product . So in that description , what they are saying is that the original business received products from plantations and sent products to manufacturing . This is also called <URL> . Meaning that they are diversifying along their supply chain so that they control more of it . This is in contrast with <URL> , where they move into new products that either compete with the existing products or which are entirely separate . In general , the upside of vertical integration is that a company is less reliant on suppliers ( and intermediate consumers ) and has more control over its supply chain . The downside is that they have less opportunity to partner with other companies in the same supply chain , as they compete with them . Some companies are better at managing to do both . For example , Amazon.com has integrated fulfillment and sales . But partners can still do their own fulfillment and/or sales , choosing how much to send out to Amazon . If you are investing in individual stocks , integrated companies can be problematic in that they cut across diversification areas . So they can be harder to balance with other stocks . You can either buy plantations , transport , and manufacturing together or not buy at all . If your investment strategy says to increase plantations and reduce manufacturing , this can be difficult to implement with an integrated company . Of course , everyone else has the same problem , which can lead to integrated companies being undervalued . So they may be an opportunity as a value stock .
It depends on the funds you invest in . Load funds ( those that charge a fee to invest ) will charge that fee on each monthly investment . Some load funds may have special share classes that have reduced fees . You will have to research the fund ( via its prospectus or a trusted financial advisor ) to determine if you qualify to use such a share class . Some funds ( and some share classes ) charge smaller fees when you invest , but may include a contingent fee that will be paid when you sell . They 're contingent upon the time period you own them . After some period of time , the fee is usually removed . Again , read the prospectus . No-load funds do not charge a fee to invest , and so they would be a good place to look , especially for index funds . Most brokerages do not charge an additional fee to invest in mutual funds . They are paid a commission by the fund , through the sales fee and annual expense charges of the funds . If you 're investing in index ETFs or closed-end funds ( which trade on exchanges ) , there is likely a commission to be paid for each monthly investment . Your specific brokerage may have a special arrangement for recurring monthly investing . You 'll need to research that with your brokerage .
I highly recommend <URL> Professor Damodaran . He 's written some of the best valuation books in existence ( my favorite , simply " Investment Valuation " ) . On his website you 'll find a big pile of spreadsheets , that are models for working the various approaches to valuing a company . Also , he teaches an MBA-level valuation course at Stern School of Business in NYC . And he videotapes it and you can watch it for free . Very smart , kind , generous man .
This article , <URL> Lists a number of them , although the exact mix may not be what you want . The bigger funds tend to track an index that have a number of different components . Individual ETFs are cheap enough to trade , if i were you , I 'd buy just the ones I want .
Benefits : As <URL> mentions , this is literally a savings account that you can use for <URL> , with no time limitation ( unlike an FSA where you must use the money by the end of the year ) The tax benefits for can be large . if you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket and your state charges you an additional 7 % taxes in your income bracket , if you put $ 3,000 into an HSA in a year , $ 3000 will be knocked off your AGI for taxes and so you 'll owe 32 % * $ 3000 = $ 960 less money in taxes come tax day ( assuming you do n't adjust your witholdings ) . If your employer offers it , you can put money in your HSA just like a 401k - PRE tax . That means you get the tax savings of putting money in an HSA over the year instead of in a lump sum at the end of the year . If you 're well off and healthy , this is a great investment vehicle . You can put money into a <URL> or a <URL> Premiums are often lower for HSA 's than other types of insurance . Often preventative coverage is completely covered ( doctors visits , immunizations etc ) . Costs : By law HSA 's must have a high deductible - $ 1200 for singles or $ 2,400 for families according to <URL> . From what I 've seen of HSA 's , you 're on the hook for any drugs you buy until your deductible is met . Depending on how many drugs you are on this could get costly . It can take time to find a good HSA account that gives you a good return at a reasonable cost . Check out investment vehicle links above for some good options IMO . If you or someone in your family gets injured or goes to the ER/hospital a lot , you 'll chew right through your deductible . It takes time to manage the inflow/outflow of money into and out of your HSA . You have ultimate flexibility and the ultimate responsibility of proving to the IRS ( if they audit you ) that you used the money for qualified medical expenses . Tax laws changing makes the viability of these accounts uncertain . Perhaps something that is allowable as a qualified medical expense now , will not be considered a qualified medical expense later - like over the counter drugs next year , due to some stupid changes ( in my opinion ) . <URL> : However , beginning in early 2011 you will no longer be able to pay for OTC ( over the counter ) medications with HSA dollars Notes : I 've found it easiest to pay for expenses through a credit card and then keep track of those which are reimbursable in a spreadsheet , and take a HSA withdrawl to cover my expenses . Other options include paying for large health care expenditures ( e.g. getting LASIK ) directly out of your HSA . State income taxes may or may not exclude HSA 's You have to make sure when you use healthcare that you bill it to your insurance , otherwise it isnt counted as part of your deductible ( even if you are fully responsible for the bill ) . A general thought - HSA 's fit the classical model of " insurance " , which is , to insure against very bad things happening ( car accident , cancer etc ) . You 're on the hook for the first $ X ,000 ( the deductible ) for that year , but typically everything after is covered by the insurer . HSA 's are good if you actually investigate the costs associated with healthcare - do n't go to an ER if urgent care will do , or if you do n't need to go to urgent care , forego it .
Why it is good to be risky The reason why it is good to be risky is because risky investments can result in higher returns on your money . The problem with being risky , is there is a chance you can lose money . However , in the long term you can usually benefit from higher returns even if you have a few slip ups . Let me show you an example : These two lines are based off of placing $ 2,000 in a retirement fund at age of 20 and then at age of 25 start investing $ 6,500 a year ( based off of a salary of $ 65,000 with a company that will 1 to 1 match up to 5 % IRA contribution , presumably someone with a Master 's should be able to get this ) and then being able to increase your contribution amount by $ 150 a year as your salary begins to increase as well . The blue line assumes that all of this money that you are putting in a retirement account has a fixed 3 % interest ( compounded yearly for simplicity sake ) every year until you retire . The red line is earning a 12 % interest rate while you are 20 years old and then decreasing by 0.5 % per year until you retire . Since this is using more risky investments when you are younger , I have even gone ahead and included losing 20 % of your money when you are 24 , another 20 % when you are 29 , and then again another 20 % when you are 34 . As you can see , even with losing 20 % of your money 3 different times , you still end up with more money then you would have had if you stuck with a more conservative investment plan . If I change this to 50 % each 3 times , you will still come out about equal to a more conservative investment . Now , I do have these 3 loses placed at a younger age when there is less to lose , but this is to be expected since you are being more risky when you are young . When you are closer to retirement you have less of a chance of losing money since you will be investing more conservatively . Why it is OK to be risky when you are young but not old Lets say you loose 20 % of your $ 2,000 when you are young , you have 30-40 years to make that back . That 's roughly $ 1 a month extra that you are having to come up with . So , if you have a risky investment go bad when you are young , you have plenty of time to account for it before you retire . Now lets say you have $ 1,000,000 when you are 5 years from retiring and loose 20 % of it , you have to come up with an extra $ 3,333 a month if you want to retire on time . So , if you have a risky investment go bad when you are close to retiring , you will most likely have to work for many more years just to be able to recover from your loses . What to invest in This is a little bit more difficult question to answer . If there was one " right " way to invest your money , every one would be doing that one " right " way and would result in it not turning out to be that good of investment . What you need to do is come up with a plan for yourself . My biggest advice that I can give is to be careful with fees . Some places will charge a fixed dollar amount per trade , while others might charge a fixed dollar amount per month , while even others might charge a percentage of your investment . With only having $ 2,000 to invest , a large fee might make it difficult to make money .
I 'm not an expert by any means , but pretty much every source I 've seen says that one year is far too short for any sort of real " investment " . Most guides suggest that anything less than 3-5 years should stay in no-risk accounts like savings or CDs . If you need to be sure you get all of the money back after just one year , any sort of market-based investment ( e.g. , stocks or bonds ) is too risky . One option is to buy <URL> . You can buy up to $ 10,000 worth in a calendar year , and 12 months is the minimum holding period . The advantage of I bonds is that the interest rate is indexed to inflation , so that ( roughly speaking ) they can not lose value in real dollars . Right now they pay 1.94 % per year , which is substantially better than you 're likely to get with a savings account or 12-month CD . This would come to $ 194 if you buy $ 10k of I Bonds . If you sell before holding them for five years ( which you will under your plan ) you forfeit the last 3 months ' worth of interest . Even so , your effective rate will likely be better than a savings account or CD . ( Also you could get 12 months ' worth of interest if you 're able to buy them slightly early and/or postpone your sabbatical slightly so that you hold them for 15 months . ) Your other option is to find the best rate you can in a CD or savings account . <URL> for instance suggests you could get between 1 % and 1.1 % for a $ 10k deposit in a 1-year CD , which would be about $ 100 . As you can see , either way your money is not going to grow that much . You 'll be gaining somewhere in the ballpark of a couple hundred dollars at most . There just is n't a way to earn more than that in one year without some risk of losing principal . ( I 'm assuming based on your Texas flag pic that you live in the USA . :-) To buy I Bonds you must be a US citizen , resident , or government employee . )
You should fund the 401 ( k ) and get the 4 % matching because it 's free money . When you leave the US , patience is a virtue to get the money penalty-free : Rollover to an IRA . Take " <URL> " for 5 years or until age 591/2 , whichever is longer , to avoid the 10 % penalty . A long payout time for someone starting out , but penalty-free . Or you can take the 10 % penalty and take out the money all at once . You 'll still owe income tax in either case , something to keep in mind if an early withdrawal would put you into a higher tax bracket . Also see this article : <URL> Another thing to keep in mind is that you never know what might happen -- you could fall in love with the US ( or someone in the US , [ smiley face ] ) , apply for residency , decide to stay a long time , and that 401 ( k ) with the 4 % matching might turn out to have been a very nice thing when you retire .
He is wrong . Using Total Return ( Reinvesting Dividend ) , from the peak in December 1999 , it only took 6 years to recover . You can check the data for free <URL> . Make sure you choose " Gross Index Level " . ACWI Index is Developed Markets + Emerging Markets . World Index is Developed Markets only .
First off , I highly recommend the book <URL> . The basics of personal finance and money management are pretty straightforward , and this book does a great job with it . It is very light reading , and it really geared for the young person starting their career . It is n't the most current book ( pre real-estate boom ) , but the recommendations in the book are still sound . ( update 8/28/2012 : New edition of the book came out . ) Now , with that out of the way , there 's really two kinds of " investing " to think about : Retirement ( 401k , IRA , SIMPLE , etc ) Non-Retirement ( Brokerage account , investing in individual stocks , day trading , etc ) For most individuals , it is best to take care of # 1 first . Most people should n't even think about # 2 until they have fully funded their retirement accounts , established an emergency fund , and gotten their debt under control . There are lots of financial incentives for retirement investing , both from your employer , and the government . All the more reason to take care of # 1 before # 2 ! Your employer probably offers some kind of 401k ( or equivalent , like a 403b ) with a company-provided match . This is a potential 100 % return on your investment after the vesting period . No investment you make on your own will ever match that . Additionally , there are tax advantages to contributing to the 401k . ( The money you contribute does n't count as taxable income . ) The best way to start investing is to learn about your employer 's retirement plan , and contribute enough to fully utilize the employer matching . Beyond this , there are also Individual Retirement Accounts ( IRAs ) you can open to contribute money to on your own . You should open one of these and start contributing , but only after you have fully utilized the employer matching with the 401k . The IRA wo n't give you that 100 % ROI that the 401k will . Keep in mind that retirement investments are pretty much " walled off " from your day-to-day financial life . Money that goes into a retirement account generally ca n't be touched until retirement age , unless you want to pay lots of taxes and penalties . You generally do n't want to put the money for your house down payment into a retirement account . One other thing to note : Your 401K and your IRA is an account that you put money into . Just because the money is sitting in the account does n't necessarily mean it is invested . You put the money into this account , and then you use this money for investments . How you invest the retirement money is a topic unto itself . <URL> If you want to ask questions about retirement portfolios , it is probably worth posting a new question .
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
<URL> ( REITs ) are required by law ( at least in the U.S. ) to maintain a <URL> of at least 90 % . In other words , they are required to pay out at least 90 % of their earnings as dividends . The dividend per share is almost the same as the earnings per share . As a result , the <URL> ( dividends per share / price per share ) is related to the <URL> ( P/E ratio ) . Any REIT that has a favorable dividend yield will also have a favorable P/E ratio . Allow me to explain further , in a different way : Dividend yield = dividend per share / price per share P/E ratio = price per share / earnings per share In a REIT , dividend per share is almost equal to earnings per share . With these three facts , we can see that , for a REIT , the dividend yield and the P/E ratio are related to each other . Using your example , let 's say that you find a REIT with a dividend yield of 5 % . With no further information on the REIT , we know that the P/E ratio will be between 18 and 20 . ( It will be 18 if the REIT is paying out 90 % of the earnings as a dividend , and 20 if the REIT is paying out 100 % of the earnings as a dividend . ) If you find a REIT with a better dividend yield , it will have a better P/E . Let 's say you find one with a dividend yield of 10 % . The P/E ratio for that REIT will be between 9 and 10 . ( A lower P/E ratio is better . )
Is it worth attending the meetings for these clubs typically Community is one of the reasons for joining an investment club . I would say that not attending the meetings would be counter to the whole point of being a part of one . Are they just fronts for sales operations ? ( Many are run by real estate agents . ) Not necessarily . That said , I would be wary of ones run by real estate agents , insurance agents , etc. . . Is there a sanctioning body that accredits or oversees these groups ? I do not think so . Though The Motley Fool mentions the <URL> . <URL> I think it will help answer many of your questions . They go into forming one , what to look for in an investment club and potential issues . They stress that investment clubs are about community , having fun , making investing accessible to the novice investor , pooling money for investment and making investing accessible to those without a large amount of money to invest . They also point out that it can help reduce the work load of researching investment ideas . Finally , they also state that organization is important to having a successful investment club .
Instead of restricting yourself on a geographical basis , I would consider two markets that seem to fit the bill based on your question : <URL> : the four major countries in this category are the BRICS group - Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa . Growth is aggressive when the going is good but volatility tends to be high as well . <URL> : includes countries like Argentina and Bangladesh where the potential is high but the market is not as liquid and investment opportunities are not as easy to find ( relative to emerging markets ) . Once you 've decided on your risk appetite , I would consider using an ETF to buy in to these markets : <URL> <URL>
Resident Alien is liable for the same taxes as a citizen . Citizenship has nothing to do with taxes .
Unless and until you are ready to do the ground work and get your hands dirty in the market , it is better to let the money where it is . But how to distribute money in which asset classes , industry etc is your choice to make . But remember that a big investment company does n't guarantee that you will always earn a return higher than the market or it is safe with them . They are also bound to make mistakes and go bust , but it would be quite rare for companies , with billions of assets because they have strict checks in place and invest with extreme caution and proper research . One option is to try dabbling in the markets yourself , slowly , not everything at once . You will learn a lot and there are loads of information on the net and books in stores which could get you started . You will need to do a lot of groundwork to beat the market . That is difficult but not impossible . People have done it time and time again and they have put in hard work to do so . And I do n't see with a little bit of work and time , why you should n't be able to do that , unless and until you are lazy and do n't intend to do it .
There are a few potential downsides but they are minor : If you forget to make the payment the interest hit the following month could be significant . With many cards the new charges will be charged interest from the start if the previous payment was late/missed . Just make sure you do n't forget to pay the entire bill . If the $ 5K in monthly bills is a large portion of the credit limit for that credit card you could run into a problem with the grace period . During the three weeks between when the monthly bill closes and the payment is due , new charges will keep rolling in . Plan on needing a credit limit for the card of 2x the monthly bills . Of course you do n't have to wait for the due date . Just go online and pay the bill early . If the monthly bills are a significant portion of the total credit limit for all credit cards , it can decrease your credit score because of the high utilization rate . The good news is that over time the credit card company will increase your credit limit thus reducing the downsides of the last two items . Also keep in mind you generally ca n't pay a credit card bill or loan with a credit card , but many of the other bills each month can be handled this way .
There are two parts to the hack you describe . One is moving to a high-cost , high-pay country to work , and the other is moving to a low-cost , low-pay country to retire . As Dilip mentioned in a comment , the first part is not so easy in many cases . You ca n't just take a plane to the USA and start making big bucks immediately . In the first place , it 's illegal to work without special visa permissions . Even if you manage to secure that permission ( or take the risk of trying to work illegally ) , there 's no guarantee you 'll get a job , let alone a high-paying one . The same is true in most other high-paying countries . As for the second part , that takes considerable willpower as well . After spending X years getting used to a country , investing time and money , you must then have the resolve to uproot your life a second time and move to another country . For the most part , countries are expensive for a reason . Even if you in principle reject the cost-benefit tradeoffs of a particular country , it can be difficult to give up some of those benefits when the time comes ( e.g. , trains running on time , reliable electricity , donut shops , or whatever ) . You might " get soft " or become co-opted by the rich-country rat race and find it difficult to extricate yourself . All of these problems are compounded if , as in many cases , you happened to start a family while in the expensive country . At the least , moving would require uprooting not just you but your family . Also , quality of education is often one of the main reasons people immigrate permanently to expensive countries . Even a person who personally would prefer to retire to a cheaper country may be unwilling to transplant their children into that country 's education system . ( Of course , they could wait until the children are self-supporting , but that makes the wait longer , and may result in them living far away from their children , which they may not want . ) As JoeTaxpayer notes , the same reasons may work on smaller levels , even within a country . In theory it 's perfectly possible to power through a brief , lucrative career in Silicon Valley and then retire to Idaho , but it does n't seem to happen as often as the plain numbers might suggest . A simple way to put it might be that the kind of person who would be happy living in a cheap environment often can not or will not endure a lengthy " tour of duty " in an expensive environment . Either you like the expensive environment and stay , or you leave , not as a planned lifehack , but because you realize you do n't like it .
TL ; DR : I have five main suggestions . They are in bold , below . The rest is mostly commentary . The Presto system has some quirks . The system has also had <URL> in the past . 1 . Set up Autoload using a credit card . If there are any system foul-ups , this may help to protect you . If you have Autoload-related problems , phone Presto . If they do n't help , phone your credit-card issuer . If the Presto system attempts repeated unjustified Autoloads , as it has done to <URL> , you wo n't be hit with $ 150 of NSF fees . If you do use a debit card and have problems , the money will already be missing . You can phone Presto ; you can phone your bank ; you can contact the BBB ; you can file an Ontario Ombudsman complaint against Metrolinx ; or you can go to small-claims court . But these options might not help . 2 . If you only have a debit card , it may be unwise to set up Autoload . Debit-card Autoload and Period Pass Autorenew are convenient , but carry risks . ( See above . ) You can live without them . 3 . It may be wisest to choose a threshold of $ 20 or more . Autoloads are supposed to be processed instantly and automatically , with <URL> . Recent system changes have made it <URL> to choose a threshold of $ 5 , but that does n't mean you should . There are rare cases , including credit-card expiry , credit-card failure , and <URL> , in which a $ 5 threshold Autoload can fail . If you can afford to set a threshold of $ 20 , consider doing so . If you use GO Transit daily , you may want to choose a threshold which is even higher . 4 . Do n't choose an Autoload amount over $ 50 unless you use GO Transit . <URL> are a hassle . Refunds over $ 50 are a big hassle . Do n't keep hundreds of dollars on your card unless you use GO Transit daily . If you ever decide to stop using Presto : Use up most of the money on your card , then give it away to a trusted friend or relative . 5 . Know that Autoload may not work correctly if your card starts out below the threshold . If your card has $ 3 on it , and you set up Autoload , the card <URL> or <URL> reload itself . If Autoload fails to work , your card may eventually end up in overdraft , and you may need to schlep to a customer service office to get it unblocked . It 's silly . If you enable Autoload on a Presto card which is below your chosen threshold , watch your balance . See whether Autoload actually succeeds or not . ( The Presto website is n't always up-to-date . You may want to instead use a balance-checking machine or a self-serve reload machine to check your balance . ) Then please click <URL> and tell us what happened .
end question
start question
Normal for my 401k to be performing at -11 % over the past 18 months ?
Yes , it 's been a rocky year . If your 401 ( k ) is diversified ( as it should be ) it should generally follow inflation and industry averages ( except outperforming them slightly in the longterm ) . For example , take a look at the Dow Jones Industrial Average : <URL> it 's down by 5 % over the past 6 months . ... so I 'd be worried if your 401 ( k ) did increase in value over the past year , because that would mean it is n't diversified . My own 401 ( k ) is down -8 % compared to 2 years ago . My personal opinion is the market will not improve much ( if at all ) over the coming year either .
Depends on how the money is invested within the 401k ... but in general , prices move both up and down with a long-tem bias toward up . Think of it this way : with fund shares priced lower now , you are getting shares cheaper than when you entered the plan . So this dip is actually working in your favor , as long as you are comfortable trusting that long-term view ( and trusting the funds your 401k money is going into ) . Believe me , it 's even scarier when you 're nearer your target retirement date and a 10 % dip may be six figures ... but it 's all theoretical until you actually start drawing the money back out , and you have to learn to accept some volatility as part of the trade-off for getting returns better than bonds .
Average person 's life I 'm going to say there is no normal debt level . Here 's the standard life pattern : When someone finishes their studies in university , and are therefore highly educated , they 'll have student debt with low assets , so they 'll probably be in debt ( negative equity , if you will ) . At least that 's the case in Australia , where student debt is lower interest than a savings account . Then they 'll get a job , rent a place , save up to buy a place , and soon they 'll have very low debt . Next they buy a place with a mortgage , and they 'll have very high debt . Over the years , they 'll pay off the mortgage and reach minimal or zero debt . So it really depends on your situation , it 's way too spread out to quote a " normal " figure . Cost of debt vs Gain from assets and Risk of income You need to strike a sweet spot based on : Cost of debt , as in interest . E.g. student loans are usually pretty cheap , mortgages are ok , credit cards are very bad How much gain are you getting from the assets that are funded by the debt ? E.g. spending on a holiday is a big loss , a car is a slight to moderate loss , but a house or shares are often a good gain . For it to be financially beneficial , you need the net gain from the asset to be higher than the cost of the debt . How risky is the income from the debt funded assets , and your own personal income ? A 90 % loan on a house is a much safer bet than a 90 % on the share market . Likewise , a freelancer who 's income fluctuates heavily should n't be as leveraged as someone working in a job where they 've " become furniture " , or whatever the saying is ! Someone who is more educated in finance will probably be able to run a tighter and more aggressive financial strategy , whereas someone who is educated in , say , creative media may not be able to do as good of a job . Running your life as a business Someone here mentioned this , I think it 's very true . Unless you intend on living day to day , with no financial strategies , much of our lives parallel businesses . Both need to pay tax , both look for low risk high growth strategies , and both will ( hopefully ) have a purpose that goes beyond bringing in $ $ $ .
As an investor , I try to interpret the suits as an attempt to in some way influence the actions of the company - and not , usually , as a serious legal threat ( or as likely to lead to serious legal consequences ) . My ( shallow ) understanding ( as a non-lawyer ) is that the requirements for a lawsuit to be filed as class-action suit are ( relatively speaking ) easier to meet when the company is publicly traded - the shareholders are more easily described as a " class " . So it 's more common for lawsuits that involve stock holders for large , publicly traded companies to be registered as class action suits . Class action suits include a requirement for some advertising and notifications ( so all members of the class become aware of the suit , and can decide whether to participate ) . So , these types of suits can be started with various goals in mind , goals which might be achieved without the suit ever going anywhere - including to gain some publicity for a particular point of view , or to put pressure on the company to perform particular actions . In most cases , though , they are the result of misunderstandings between the various parties with an interest in how the company is run - shareholders , directors and/or executive officers . For most cases , the result of the suit is a more in depth sharing of information between the parties involved , and possibly a change in the plans/actions of the company ; the legal technicalities differ from case to case , and , often , the legal consequences are minor .
Yes , it 's been a rocky year . If your 401 ( k ) is diversified ( as it should be ) it should generally follow inflation and industry averages ( except outperforming them slightly in the longterm ) . For example , take a look at the Dow Jones Industrial Average : <URL> it 's down by 5 % over the past 6 months . ... so I 'd be worried if your 401 ( k ) did increase in value over the past year , because that would mean it is n't diversified . My own 401 ( k ) is down -8 % compared to 2 years ago . My personal opinion is the market will not improve much ( if at all ) over the coming year either .
I rolled mine over from the company I was at into my own brokerage house . You ca n't roll them into a Roth IRA , so I needed to setup a traditional IRA . There is paperwork your old jobs can provide you . I had to put in some mailing addresses , some account numbers and turn them in . My broker received it , I chose what I wanted to invest it in and that was that . No tax penalty or early withdrawal penalty . The key to avoiding penalties is to have your past employers send the money directly to another retirement fund , not send a check to you .
That 's almost certainly a confusingly-worded version of Company will match employee 's contributions , up to 6 % of employee 's salary , at a 35 % rate or similar , as you expect . The alternate reading does n't make sense grammatically - " up to " is incorrect in that phrase ( 35 % match of the first 6 % of employee contribution would be okay , but " up to " does n't parse , since every contribution is 100 % of itself ) . I 've more often seen the exact percentage mentioned - but that 's because it 's always been 50 % in my experience , meaning 50 % company match of employee contributions , capped at 3 % of employee salary ( when contributing 6 % or more of salary ) 35 % of 6 % is 2.10 % of employee salary so it 's a bit more confusing to put in that terms . But of course , as with any unclear terminology in a benefits package , ask the company HR forthwith .
It seems that counting your father as your dependent should n't , in itself , cause him to be ineligible for SNAP . Eligibility requirements for SNAP can be found on <URL> . There are upper limits on the " countable resources , such as a bank account " that the beneficiary 's household may have , and on that household 's income . ( There are some other requirements , too . ) From what I can tell from your question , your father should n't be part of your household for SNAP purposes , because : Everyone who lives together and purchases and prepares meals together is grouped together as one household . If you 're transferring him money , I assume he 's living and eating somewhere else , so it seems you are not part of his household . According to the IRS 's Publication 501 , your father is not required to be part of your household for IRS purposes to be your dependent . <URL> is that a non-child dependent must either : Live with you all year as a member of your household , or Be related to you in one of the ways listed under <URL> However , by the <URL> , you may be able to use your father as your qualifying person ( dependent ) to be able to file as " head of household " , so long as you pay more than half their support , and " more than half the cost of keeping up a home that was the main home for the entire year for your father " . I do n't know if in this case the IRS would consider your father " part of your household " or not . Even if the IRS considered your father part of your household based on the way you filed your taxes , I think it 's possible , as the IRS and FNS are two different entities , that the definition of your father 's household for SNAP purposes could be different from the IRS 's .
For Qualified or Safe Harbor Matching/Profit Sharing they have legal requirements over 59.5 . For everything else it 's based on the plan document what is allowed . The plan document can be ( and usually is ) more restrictive than the law .
Well , one of the requirements for you to be able to claim someone as a dependent is that he/she must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien . So the key issue here is whether your parents are resident aliens . Someone is a resident alien if they pass either the substantial presence test , or the green card test . Your parents do n't have green cards , so it 's the substantial presence test that is relevant . This is where how long they 've stayed in the U.S. is important . They satisfy the substantial presence test for 2013 if : ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2013 ) + 1/3 of ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2012 ) + 1/6 of ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2011 ) > = 183 days . Do they satisfy that ? If they do , then they are resident aliens for 2013 . If they are resident aliens , then they can be claimed as dependents . Note-1 : if they are resident aliens , all their worldwide income would be subject to U.S. taxes . Note-2 : As per this <URL> , to pass substantial presence test , you have to be in USA atleast 30 days for the current year in addition 183 days calculation which includes current year and last two years / .
The usual arrangement that I have seen , when moving in the same area , is to overlap the apartments by a few days . Generally , the first months rent on the new apartment is prorated for the time you actually have possession of it . So you take possession of the new place on 9/25 and turn over the old place on 9/30 . This has the advantage of making moving a bit less stressful since everything does n't have to happen all at once ( moving , cleaning , etc ) . If moving more than a day 's drive away , it is less of an issue because you will be spending the night in a hotel ( or your car ) anyway .
There are bullion dealers who will buy gold no matter its form . You wo n't get the spot price as it 's probably being bought same as junk jewelry or any other gold needing to be melted and recast . If this is your concern , you should buy a fireproof safe , the kind people use to store their important documents , and add the gold value to home insurance policy . Do not get a safe deposit box at the bank , see mbhunter 's comment and link .
You can view the donations as helping to pay for your time spent on development , so I do n't think there 's any moral or legal issue with asking for them . However you will need to pay tax on them as income , which may involve registering with HMRC as self-employed . They also wo n't be tax-deductible for the donors or eligible for gift aid , as you are n't a charity .
The presence of the 401K option means that your ability to contribute to an IRA will be limited , it does n't matter if you contribute to the 401K or not . Unless your company allows you to roll over 401K money into an IRA while you are still an employee , your money in the 401K will remain there . Many 401K programs offer not just stock mutual funds , but bond mutual funds , and international funds . Many also have target date funds . You will have to look at the paperwork for the funds to determine if any of them meet your definition of low expense . Because any money you have in those 401K funds is going to remain in the 401K , you still need to look at your options and make the best choice . Very few companies allow employees to invest in individual stocks , but some do . You can ask your employer to research other options for the 401K . The are contracting with a investment company to make the plan . They may be able to switch to a different package from the same company or may need to switch companies . How much it will cost them is unknown . You will have to understand when their current contract is up for renewal . If you feel their current plan is poor , it may be making hiring new employees difficult , or ti may lead to some employees to leave in search of better options . It may also be a factor in the number of employees contributing and how much they contribute .
Interest would be calculated as where A = ending amount , P = principal , r = rate , n = number of times compounded per T , t = time rate is over ( usually year ) . So solving for P where A = 116971.41 , r = .06 , n = 365 , t = 90/365 ( so nt = 90 ) would give you You should end up with a number just over $ 115,250 .
Apples and oranges . The stock market requires a tiny bit of your time . Perhaps a lot if you are interested in individual stocks , and pouring through company annual reports , but close to none if you have a mix of super low cost ETFs or index fund . The real estate investing you propose is , at some point , a serious time commitment . Unless you use a management company to handle incoming calls and to dispatch repair people . But that 's a cost that will eat into your potential profits . If you plan to do this ' for real , ' I suggest using the 401 ( k ) , but then having the option to take loans from it . The ability to write a check for $ 50K is pretty valuable when buying real estate . When you run the numbers , this will benefit you long term . Edit - on re-reading your question <URL> , I withdraw my answer above . You overestimated the return you will get , the actual return will likely be negative . It does n't take too many years of your one per year strategy to wipe you out . Per your comment below , if bought right , rentals can be a great long term investment . Glad you did n't buy the loser .
Depends on how the money is invested within the 401k ... but in general , prices move both up and down with a long-tem bias toward up . Think of it this way : with fund shares priced lower now , you are getting shares cheaper than when you entered the plan . So this dip is actually working in your favor , as long as you are comfortable trusting that long-term view ( and trusting the funds your 401k money is going into ) . Believe me , it 's even scarier when you 're nearer your target retirement date and a 10 % dip may be six figures ... but it 's all theoretical until you actually start drawing the money back out , and you have to learn to accept some volatility as part of the trade-off for getting returns better than bonds .
Congratulations on your raise ! Is my employer allowed to impose their own limit on my contributions that 's different from the IRS limit ? No . Is it something they can limit at will , or are they required to allow me to contribute up to the IRS limit ? The employer can not limit you , you can contribute up to the IRS limit . Your mistake is in thinking that the IRS limit is 17K for everyone . That is not so . You 're affected by the HCE rules ( Highly Compensated Employees ) . These rules define certain employees as HCE ( if their salary is significantly higher than that of the rest of the employees ) , and limit the ability of the HCE 's to deposit money into 401k , based on the deposits made by the rest of the employees . Basically it means that while the overall maximum is indeed 17K , your personal ( and other HCE 's in your company ) is lowered down because those who are not HCE 's in the company do n't deposit to 401k enough . You can read more details and technical explanation about the HCE rules in <URL> and in this <URL> .
Yes , you should absolutely bother . Get a Roth IRA opened up soon and contribute the max you can per paycheck . $ 96 weekly , $ 192 bi-weekly or $ 416 per month . You probably should n't fret about the benefits of your IRA for a year . Instead , consider the benefits of feeding it for your entire working life . Other issues to consider Do you have any debt ? Pay them off . Do you have an emergency fund ? Try to make one . Fund that IRA
For a Canadian university education , an October 2009 article at <URL> says : [ ... ] The study estimates the total price tag of an undergraduate degree at a whopping $ 137,013 for students living away from home and $ 101,426 for those staying at home . [ ... ]
end question
start question
How does one effectively negotiate rent ?
One of the best ways to " win " any negotiation is to make an offer in which the other guy " wins " too . Give them something you do n't care much about in exchange for something you do care about . ( Assuming the " something " is of value to them . ) You 've already hinted at this strategy in your question : Prepay months in advance . Longer lease . Longer notice time built into lease termination agreement . Do you have a car ? Can you give up a parking space ? Are you a non-smoker ? Can you promise not to smoke in the apartment ? ( This is an expense for the landlord when you move out . ) Do they allow cats and you do n't have cats ? Can you promise not to keep cats ? ( Another expense for the landlord . ) Probably unlikely to succeed in urban areas where landlords are pros , but in other areas : can you offer to do work for rent reduction ? E.g. you are handy and can help with maintenance , or you can mow the lawn , shovel the walk , paint , etc. . If they have low occupancy , can you make a deal for referrals ?
You understood it pretty right . Every fiscal year ( which runs from April 6 year Y to April 5 year Y +1 ) , you can deposit a total GBP15k ( this number is subject to an annual increase by HMRC ) into your ISAs . You can open 2 new ISA every year but the amount deposited to those ISAs shall not excess GBP15k in total . From the 2016/17 tax year some ISAs now permit you to replace any funds you have withdrawn , without using up your allowance . It used to be that if you deposited GBP15K and then withdrew GBP5K , you could not pay in to that ISA again within that tax year as you had already used your full allowance . Under new Flexible ISA rules this would be allowed providing you replace the funds in the same ISA account and within the same tax year ( strongly recommend that you check the small prints related to your account to make sure this is he case ) . Any gains and losses on the investments held in the ISA accounts are for you to take . i.e. . If you make investment gains of GBP5K this does not reduces your allowance . You will still be able to deposit GBP15k ( or whatever HMRC increases that number to ) in the following year . You are also allowed to consolidate your ISAs . You can ask bank A to transfer the amount held into an ISA with bank held with bank B . This is usually done by filling a special form with the bank that will held the money post transactions . Again here be very careful . DO NOT withdraw the money to transfer it yourself as this would count against the GBP15K limit . Instead follow the procedures from the bank . Finally if you do n't use your allowance for a given year , you can not use it during the following year . i.e. if you do n't deposit the GBP15K this year , then you can not deposit GBP30K next year . NB : I used the word " deposit " . It does not matter to HMRC if the money get invested or not . If you are in a rush on April 4th , just make sure the money is wired into the ISA account by the 5th . No need to rush and make bad investment decision . You can invest it later . Hope it helps
Robinhood seems interesting . Some say it 's a gimmicky site with a nice UI not an investing or trading platform . From <URL> : 1 . For now , the app stays afloat for mainly two reasons . First , the business itself is extremely lean : no physical locations , a small staff , no massive public relations campaigns and only one operating system platform to maintain . Robinhood also generates interest off of unused cash deposits from user accounts according to the Federal Funds rate . 2 . Second , venture capitalists such as Index Ventures , Ribbit Capital , Google Ventures , Andreessen Horowitz , Social Leverage , and " many others " have invested more than $ 16 million in the app . 3 . According to Barron 's , Robinhood plans to implement margin trading in 2015 , eventually charging 3.5 % interest for the service . E * Trade charges 8.44 % for accounts under $ 25,000 . Phone assisted trading will also be available at $ 10 per trade in the future . 4 . Originally , Robinhood planned to make money off of order flows -- a common tactic used by discount brokerages in the 199 0s to generate revenue . According to the company 's FAQ , Robinhood backpedaled on the idea because it executes orders through a clearing partner and , as a result , receives little to no payment for order flow . The company is willing to return to its original plan in the future if it receives order flows directly or begins to generate a lot of revenue from them .
A synthetic ETF represents some segment of a market or a market index , but does n't invest in the actual securities . Typically this means they 're using options contracts or similar instruments ( swaps ) . The most obvious of these are leveraged ETFs : they aim to return something like " twice the daily performance of the S&amp;P 500 " . Sometimes these are short ETFs : " twice the inverse of the daily performance " . Because their objective is the daily performance , their returns may diverge significantly over time . They 're pretty much always a good way to lose money in the long term . They 're primarily used for day traders to have an effective way to perform certain day-trade strategies . There may be other kinds of synthetic ETFs out there . I do n't know about the details of them . There are definitely some commodities-futures funds that do n't hold the actual commodities but I do n't know any in the ETF flavor . Commodity-futures funds are subject to what they call contango in certain ( rising ) markets , which may hamper their ability to chase that performance . ( They ca n't take physical delivery . If the price for delivery in 12 months is higher than the price of an option expiring now , then they ca n't actually capture that gain . ) You can tell a regular ETF by the fact that its prospectus and " about this fund " info which says what it invests in . A standard vanilla ETF will say something like " this fund invests all or substantially all of its assets in the common stocks of the companies in the Standard &amp; Poor 500 " ( or whatever the ETF represents ) . These are the kinds of ETFs an individual investor should probably be investing in .
But what about the remaining 20 % ? Is that due every year as well , or when the FD matures ? It is due every year and not on maturity . Is the TDS 10 % or 10.3 % ? In other words , does the education cess apply to the TDS ? That depends on how the financial institution has interpreted the rule book . Do I have to pay 20.6 % or 20.9 % ? It is irrelevant what percentage was deducted . Compute the total tax , you know the TDS pay the balance as Advance Tax or Self Assessment tax .
It depends on the deal : and you did n't give any details . That said , there are some things that stand out regardless , and some more specific answers to your questions . First , Mortgage rates ( at the bank ) are absurdly low right now . Like 4 % -5 % ; less than 4 % for excellent credit . You say your credit is ok , so unless your landlord is willing to do a deal where they get no benefit ( beyond the price of the house ) , the bank is the way to go . If you do n't have much for a down payment , go with an FHA loan , where you need only 3.5 % down . Second , there is another option in between bank mortgage and rent-to-own . And that is that where your landlord " carries the note " . Basically , there is a mortgage , and it works like a bank mortgage , but instead of the bank owning the mortgage , your landlord does . Now , in terms of them carrying all of it , this is n't really helpful . Who wants to make 3-4 % interest ? But , there is an interesting opportunity here . With your ok credit , you can probably get pretty close to 4 % interest at the bank IF the loan is for 80 % LTV ( loan to value ; that is , 20 % equity ) . At 80 % LTV you also wo n't have PMI , so between the two that loan will be very cheap . Then , your accommodating landlord can " carry " the rest at , say , 6-7 % interest , junior to the bank mortgage ( meaning if you default , the bank gets first dibs on the value of the house ) . Under that scenario , your over all interest payment is very reasonable , and you would n't have to put any money down . Now for your other questions : If we rent to own are we building equity ? Not usually . Like the other posters said , rent-to-own is whatever both parties agree on . But objectively , most rent-to-own agreements , whether for a TV or a house , are set up to screw the buyer . Sorry to be blunt , and I 'm not saying your landlord would do that , this is just generally how it is with rent to own . You do n't own it till you make the last payment , and if you miss a payment they repo the property . There is no recourse because , hey , it was a rental agreement ! Of course the agreements vary , and people who offer rent to own are n't necessarily bad people , but it 's like one of those payday loan places : They provide a valid service but no one with other options uses them . If we rent to own , can we escape if we have to ( read : ca n't pay anymore ) . Usually , sure ! Think about what you 're saying : " Here 's the house back , and all that money I paid you ? Keep it ! " It 's a great deal if you 're on the selling side . How does rent to own affect ( or not ) our credit ? It all depends on how it 's structured . But really , it comes down to are they going to do reporting to the credit bureaus ? In a rent-to-own agreement between individuals , the answer is no . ( individuals ca n't report to a credit bureau . it 's kind of a big deal to be set up to be able to do that )
Value averaging has you shift the balance of your portfolio over time , not the amount of contributions . So you can only do it if you have a portfolio holding both risky assets ( shares etc ) and some cash . You start out by making a plan about how much you will contribute every month and at what rate you expect the share part of the portfolio to grow . Perhaps based on 20th century data you think an 8 % growth rate is reasonable . Or alternatively if you know your desired final amount obviously you can work backwards to a desired rate from that . If in any month the share part is falling below its expected growth path , you would put more money into it : possibly your whole paycheck contribution plus some from the savings cash account . On the other hand if the share component is growing " too fast " you would put all your additional savings into cash . So if your investments are doing well , you 're not supposed to spend the excess money , but rather to put it aside into a dedicated cash account to top up your share component when prices fall . In theory , this has the auto-levelling benefit of Dollar Cost Averaging , but even better : when prices are high , you 'll automatically buy fewer shares , or even sell some ; conversely when prices are low you 'll buy extra shares from your reserve account . If it turns out your estimate was unreasonably optimistic , and over your lifetime shares only ever average 3 % , you 'll end up with an entirely share portfolio , and a bumpier ride than you might have liked . If you have horrible luck and over your entire investing life shares return less than cash ( which has happened , though not yet in the USA ) , then this will be worse than a standard balanced portfolio . The original book <URL> has a pretty good explanation of various cases , though I would say some of the examples are worked in excessive detail . I have not implemented this myself , one reason being that the amount I 'm able to save from year to year varies , as it probably does for you , and so predicting a path is not quite so simple as he assumes . You could still do it I suppose . I think you could get a very crude approximation to this by simply directing your savings into cash when the share market 's rate of growth over the last several years is above what you think is the long term average .
With BofA , you can just enter their address and it will mail them a check instead of needing to wire it to them . You do n't need your landlords permission to do this ( just let him know to expect the check in the mail ) . I did this for years , and other than the fact that the arrival date may vary by a day or two ( presumably due to mail or processing delays ) , had no issues with it . It is a great way to make sure your rent is paid on time ( if you 've got till the 5th , just set it up for the 1st and you should be fine ) . The same is true of most other banks who have online bill payment , with the main difference being the time variability of delivery . I 've not come across any that charge for this . It even saves you the cost of a stamp , envelope , and check . Update : There are also some marginal difference between banks about how records are kept and when the amount is deducted from your account . The records keeping probably works to your advantage if they ever claim you missed a payment ( you have record it was sent , even if they never cash it ) . The variation in deduction from your account ( i.e. when it is sent vs when it is cashed ) could play out different ways and is n't anything that big to worry about .
As per RBI regulations , all transaction originated in India [ i.e. Merchants in India ] and cards issued in India . As of now if a merchant is not in India , then OTP or additional password is not required . The Financial Institutions had contended that making changes for Gateways outside of India would be a technical challenge . This was accepted by RBI as it was deemed that number of user 's doing international transaction is small and hence the chances of fraud are less . Quite a few companies , UberCabs for example switched the gateway to US so that they could bill customers without OTP .
You could purchase Home Equity Insurance . Here is a paper by Robert Shiller and Allan Weiss about how it would work : <URL> . Sadly this type of protection is hard to find .
A stipend received for the specific purposes of studies is not taxable . It is not clear from your question as to whether there are any strings attached to the money you receive . If its not for specific purpose , then its taxable as income and tax need to be paid accordingly . Please consult a CA and he can go through the specifics of your case .
Beg , plead , whimper , and hope they take pity on you . Sorry , but there 's no way to force someone to take less than you legitimately owe them except to declare bankrupty , and even that may not do it . If they are n't interested in throwing away $ 3000 , your best bet really is to try to arrange a payment plan , or to get a loan from somewhere and pay that back over time . Of course either of those options is likely to cost you interest , but that 's what happens ... I wish I could say something else , but there really is n't any good news here .
It 's an effective way to achieve market segmentation without having to ask your customers how rich they are , and you get the benefit of finding out additional information like their address , email etc. . The principle is similar to coupons on cereal boxes , anybody can get the rebate/discount if they go to the effort , but people who are cash rich/time poor are less likely to do so than those that really need the money . Joe Spolsky <URL> about this and various other pricing mechanisms a while back , I like to reference the article every few weeks . It 's well worth a read . Now , if you 're retired and living off of social security , $ 7 an hour sounds pretty good , so you do it , but if you 're a stock analyst at Merrill Lynch getting paid $ 12,000,000 a year to say nice things about piece-of-junk Internet companies , working for $ 7 an hour is a joke , and you 're not going to clip coupons . Heck , in one hour you could issue " buy " recommendations on ten piece-of-junk Internet companies ! So coupons are a way for consumer products companies to charge two different prices and effectively segment their market into two . Mail-in rebates are pretty much the same as coupons , with some other twists like the fact that they reveal your address , so you can be direct marketed to in the future .
It depends on the terms of the mortgage . Generally speaking , residential mortgages specifically prohibit letting out a property without the bank 's express permission -- but as you say , that tends to assume that the whole property is being let , not just a part of it . Conversely , buy-to-let mortgages generally prohibit living in the property yourself ! The final arbiter as to what is allowed under a mortgage is the mortgage provider ; so the safest option is to speak to one or more banks , and see what they say . ( Note that if you 're changing the use of part of a property from business to residential , you may need to apply for permission ; check with your local council . )
The common number is similar to what should be a mortgage payment - about one week 's pay should cover the rent . So 25 % . But - if one lives in a city and drops the need for a car , they might choose to pay a bit higher rent as they save quite a bit by walking or taking public transportation to work . There 's also a lot to be said for first time renters ( i.e. new graduates ) to find a suitable multi-bedroomed apartment or house and share the rent .
There 's likely to be a period where you will own both houses . Although everyone wants " simultaneous closing " , it can be very rarely achieved . To achieve that , what is usually done is that the purchase of house B is contingent on the sale of the house A within a certain period of time . Then , you close both sales together with the proceeds from A going towards the purchase of B . It also means that you must stay in an hotel with all your stuff in a storage , because when you close the deal , A must already be empty ( because the buyer takes possession at closing ) and B will be empty ( because you also take possession at closing ) , leaving you in a limbo but without the need of paying two mortgages at once . As a side-note - I never understood the need in staging . IMHO its just another way for realtors to pocket money . When I was looking for an apartment not far from where you live , I saw both staged and non-staged , and in some cases even places where people were still living . I did n't see any difference re the asking price or the price I would offer . With a good inspection you can see straight through the " staging " so it does n't really fool anyone .
yes , when you apply for a new loan the loan originator will do a ' hard pull ' on your credit history which will result in your score going down . In my experience your score may go down by 20 points or so . You should be able to recover it fairly soon by making timely payments . I was also told that you can do as many hard pulls as you want within 48 hours and it will effect your just like one pull . So when shopping around for a mortgage probably a good idea to allow them to check your credit score on the same day . Unlike soft pulls when credit card companies just check it for marketing purposes . This does n't effect your credit score . Here some information explaining the difference <URL>
You bought the stock at some point in the past . You must have had a reason for this purchase . Has the recent change in price changed the reason you bought the stock ? You must assume your losses are <URL> . No matter what action you take , you can not recover your losses . Do not attempt to hold the stock in the hopes of regaining value , or sell it to stop losses . Instead approach this event as if this very day , you were given shares of the company 's stock at their current market value for free as a gift . In this hypothetical situation , would you hold the shares , or sell them ? Use that to judge your options . Not everyone , myself included , can handle the mental stress of watching share prices change . You can always consider trading index funds instead , which are much less volatile but will provide consistent , albeit , boring returns . This may or may not be you , but it 's an option . Finally , do not keep money in the market you are not prepared to lose . It seems obvious , but if you lost 40 % today , you could lose 100 % tomorrow .
I am from Australia , so do n't know how relevant my answer will be for the US , but I 'll try anyway . If you are having your utilities ( electricity , gas and water usage ) included as a set fee as part of the rent , I would say that the landlord has taken the average cost for these utilities and added a buffer incase you and your house-mate use more than the average . They would probably then review the costs after a certain period to see if they need to incease them or not . If you think you are a low user of the utilities ( ie use water sparingly , turn off the lights when you leave a room , etc. ) then you may be better off paying for the utilities separetly . However , since you are sharing with someone else , and if you do n't know whether they are a high user or low user , then you may end up paying for some of their usage as well . These are the things you may wish to consider . In the end you will have to decide if you want to pay one single bill each week or month , or have all your costs separated so you know you are not over paying for something you may not be using . Some people feel that not knowing and making one single payment is easier and less stressful , while others may be concerned about not knowing and need to know all the amounts to put their minds at ease . You have to decide which type of person you are . Personally , I would be the type that wanted to know the exact amounts to pay , but as mentioned earlier , this is made harder by the fact that you will be sharing with someone else . To estimate the amount for each utility you will need to firstly estimate what your usage is for each utility and then multiply this by the rates charged by each utility company ( this can be found on one of the utility company 's previous bills ) . Maybe you can ask the Landlord that you wish to pay the utilities separately for the first couple of months and then decide if you wnated them included with the total rent after that . That way you can work out actual costs and decide which outcome is better for you . There is no harm in asking .
One of the best ways to " win " any negotiation is to make an offer in which the other guy " wins " too . Give them something you do n't care much about in exchange for something you do care about . ( Assuming the " something " is of value to them . ) You 've already hinted at this strategy in your question : Prepay months in advance . Longer lease . Longer notice time built into lease termination agreement . Do you have a car ? Can you give up a parking space ? Are you a non-smoker ? Can you promise not to smoke in the apartment ? ( This is an expense for the landlord when you move out . ) Do they allow cats and you do n't have cats ? Can you promise not to keep cats ? ( Another expense for the landlord . ) Probably unlikely to succeed in urban areas where landlords are pros , but in other areas : can you offer to do work for rent reduction ? E.g. you are handy and can help with maintenance , or you can mow the lawn , shovel the walk , paint , etc. . If they have low occupancy , can you make a deal for referrals ?
end question
start question
How does Ontario 's new HST affect a condominium purchase ?
Part 2 first : resale is exempt <URL> The new homes is a little messier <URL> goes into some detail . Effectively if the home is $ 400,000 or less , then a government rebate should offset the HST , to effectively be back to where you would have been with the old RST ( Retail Sales Tax ) . Excruciating details are <URL>
Your credit report has no historic utilization rates ( although it will note the highest balance you have had on a particular line of credit ) . It only factors in the last reported statements from your creditors . The actual delay depends on a combination of the creditor and the reporting agency . It will usually range from 1-3 months . If you have no plans to have your credit pulled in the near future , your utilization rate should not be a major concern .
Credit card issuers do not report whether you paid the balance in full to the credit reporting agencies . What is reported each month is your balance and whether you made the required payment , but not the size of the payment . From what I can tell , this is reported to the credit reporting agencies at about the same time as your monthly bill is issued , i.e. , it 's your statement balance . If your monthly balance is reported as $ 4500 one month and then $ 4000 the next , there is no way to tell from your credit report whether you paid the $ 4500 in full and ran up another $ 4000 the next month , or made a single $ 500-ish payment and are carrying the balance . Since this information is not on your credit report , it can not ( and does not ) affect your credit score . If the balance is higher than it otherwise would be because you are carrying multiple months of spending on the card rather than paying it off each month , this can affect your credit score because it increases utilization . The less utilization , the higher the score . It used to be that utilization did n't have too significant of an impact on your score until it reached 50 % , but apparently it has some effect at 20 % .
There are several ways that the issuers profit from CFDs . If the broker has trades on both sides ( buy and sell ) they can net the volumes off against each other and profit off the spread whilst using the posted margins to cover p &amp; l from both sides . Because settlement for most securities is not on the same day that the order is placed they can also buy the security with no intention of taking delivery and simply sell it off at the end of day to pass delivery on to someone else . Here again they profit from the spread and that their volumes give them really low commissions so their costs are much lower than the value of the spread . If they have to do this rather than netting the position out the spreads will be wider . Sometimes that may be forced to buy the security outright but that is rare and the spreads will be even wider so that they can make a decent profit .
For a newly registered business , you 'll be using your " personal " credit score to get the credit . You will need to sign for the credit card personally so that if your business goes under , they still get paid . Your idea of opening a business card to increase your credit score is not a sound one . Business plastic might not show up on your personal credit history . While some issuers report business accounts on a consumer 's personal credit history , others do n't . This cuts both ways . Some entrepreneurs want business cards on their personal reports , believing those nice high limits and good payment histories will boost their scores . Other small business owners , especially those who keep high running balances , know that including that credit line could potentially lower their personal credit scores even if they pay off the cards in full every month . There is one instance in which the card will show up on your personal credit history : if you go into default . You 're not entitled to a positive mark , " but if you get a negative mark , it will go on your personal report , " Frank says . And some further information related to evaluating a business for a credit card : If an issuer is evaluating you for a business card , the company should be asking about your business , says Frank . In addition , there " should be something on the application that indicates it 's for business use , " he says . Bottom line : If it 's a business card , expect that the issuer will want at least some information pertaining to your business . There is additional underwriting for small business cards , says Alfonso . In addition to personal salary and credit scores , business owners " can share financials with us , and we evaluate the entire business financial background in order to give them larger lines , " she says . Anticipate that the issuer will check your personal credit , too . " The vast majority of business cards are based on a personal credit score , " says Frank . In addition , many issuers ask entrepreneurs to personally guarantee the accounts . That means even if the businesses go bust , the owners promise to repay the debts . <URL>
I have to agree with you . On the short sale , it 's clear the owner is gone . But - On a great foreclosure deal , so long as you have a legitimate title company offering title insurance , the risk should be acceptable .
In the US , " title " is the document that shows ownership of the car . It is a nicely printed document you get from the DMV , that includes the information about the car and about you . You " sign off the title " when you sell the car - part of the title is a form on which the owner of the title can assign it to someone else . With your signature on the title , the new owner goes to the DMV which exchanges it to a new title in the new owner 's name . Never sign on the title unless you got the payment for the car from the buyer . Usually , when the car is bought with a loan , the lender holds the title . Since you need to sign off the title to pass the ownership if you sell the car - lender holding on to it will prevent you from selling the car until the lender gives you the title back ( when you pay off the loan ) . Your boss , acting as a lender , wants the title to hold on to it to prevent you from selling the car that secures your debt to him . He wants that ( usually pink ) piece of paper . <URL> explaining about the title and showing a sample . Lenders holding the title will usually also add an endorsement at the DMV , so that you ca n't go and claim that you lost it .
Yes , housing market indexes , which have associated options and futures , can be used as a hedge to cover exposure due to real-estate purchases . The most well-known ( only ? ) indexes are the <URL> . They are available for 12 or more regional real-estate markets in the U.S.A. . There is a website exclusively devoted to them , describing regional market coverage , index methodology and commentary , <URL> . Case-Schiller indexes can be used to accomplish what you asked for . You can use them as a type of insurance using the associated put options . They are listed and available for trading through the CME Group . You can get details from the <URL> , including contract size , price , historical volume and so forth . There are also <URL> , but I could not find any obvious way for an individual to invest in them .
Fred is correct ... MOST financial advisors ( but not all ) are paid either for managing your assets or for selling you financial products . But success at anything , especially building wealth , is all about PROCESS , not products . I applaud your desire to find a financial advisor to help you because this is not something that most people have the education , experience or capacity to do themselves ( it is impossible to get the perspective you need to make the best choices ) . Start with a CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER professional - they have an ethical duty to do what is in your best interests ahead of their own ( the " fiduciary standard " ) . You might interview two or three . Work with the one who is transparent about how they are paid and whose process is focused on helping you achieve your goals ... not following any rule of thumb or standard boilerplate . Your goals are different . Your financial life is different . Find someone who can help YOU follow YOUR agenda ... not their own .
I 'm not an expert on reverse mortgages but from my understanding the closing costs are much higher than traditional mortgages and the LTV is generally pretty low . So the bank makes money by not loaning out all that much compared to the value of the property and by charging high fees on the front end .
If you 're outside the US then etrade will direct you to the most appropriate portal for your location - e.g. , if I 'm in Australia , I have to sign up for an account through the Singapore portal . Whether taking out an account with etrade gets you access to US IPOs is another matter entirely . Foreigners can generally participate ( if and when your particular etrade portal is participating ) , but your residency is the least of your worries . The size and longevity of your account with a broker like etrade is much more important when they decide who gets in and who misses out .
As someone who works for a company that deploys POS systems in Canada , I can tell you that your best bet would be to have a configuration option that lets the client decide what to do . If they have a business practice that would allow for a sale total to be $ 0.01 or $ 0.02 , they should first evaluate their business practice . If you 're building a POS system to deploy in Canada , I 'm sure you have access to resources ( potential clients ) who would already know how they would want to handle this . Ask them .
The general idea of the PRPP is so that small business who can not afford to offer a plan alone will be able to pool resources with others along with self-employed to create voluntary , defined-contribution pension plans that would be managed by private sector financial institutions . The PRPP concept would offer more options to individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses - <URL> You can also find an overview here <URL>
Credit utilization , which is the amount of actual debt compared to the amount of your credit limits , is an instantaneous number . Your credit report does not show history on this , so the score is based solely on your current utilization . So in your example , if Person A and Person B have the same utilization in the current month , the utilization portion of the score will be the same , regardless of what the utilization was in previous months . Some of the score is definitely based on history . Your history of late payments , the length of your credit history , number of inquiries all have a history to them , and all age-out of your report ( and score ) after a certain length of time . Credit utilization , however , has no memory . Having said all of that , the exact FICO score formula is a proprietary secret , presumably to prevent people from gaming the system too much . Some aspects to the score have been revealed ; however , no definitive answer as to the algorithm behind the score can ever be had . But because the credit report does not show a history for credit utilization , the score can not take this history into account .
Unemployment insurance provides a temporary safety net to workers who lose their jobs by replacing a portion of their salary for certain periods . Each state administers its own unemployment insurance program so some rules may vary from state to state . Eligibility To receive unemployment insurance payments , you must have lost your job through no fault of your own . If you quit your job or lost it because of poor performance or another justifiable reason , you are not eligible for unemployment insurance benefits . State unemployment insurance programs require claimants to have worked sufficiently before they can claim benefits . Verification As soon as you apply for unemployment insurance , an agency with the state in which you live will verify that you were a victim of a layoff by contacting your previous employer and making sure you lost your job due to lack of work and not an action within your control . Calculation After the state verifies you were indeed the victim of a layoff , your weekly payment is calculated . Your payment will be a percentage of what you made in your previous job , generally between 20 percent and 50 percent , depending on your state . Unemployment insurance replaces only a portion of your previous pay because it is intended to pay only for the essentials of living such as food and utilities until you find new employment . Waiting Period Before you begin receiving benefits , you must complete a waiting period of typically one or two weeks . If you find a new job during this period , you will not be eligible for unemployment benefits , even if the job does not pay you as much as your previous job . After the waiting period , you will begin to receive your weekly payments . Employers pay for unemployment insurance through payroll taxes . So , while employees ' work and earnings history are important to funding their unemployment benefits , the money does not come from their pay . Employer unemployment insurance contributions depend on several factors , including how many former employees have received benefits . Base Wages Employers pay taxes on an employee 's base wages , which vary by state . California , for example taxes employers on the first $ 7,000 of an employee 's annual earnings , while neighboring Oregon taxes up to $ 32,000 of wages . Employers must set aside funds each payroll period and then report taxes and pay their states quarterly . State Rate Categories States have several categories of tax rates they charge employers . New businesses and those first adding employees pay the " new rate , " which is typically lower and geared toward small businesses . Established businesses who have n't paid their taxes recently or properly are usually assessed the " standard rate " -- the highest possible tax rate , which in 2010 ranged from 5.4 percent in several states including Georgia , Hawaii and Alaska to 13.56 percent in Pennsylvania . Businesses in good standing may receive discounts under the " experienced rate . " Depending on the number of employees a business has and how many former employees have claimed unemployment , states can give sizable rate reductions . The fewer claims , the lower the rate a business pays in unemployment insurance taxes . As a result of the economic crisis legislation has been passed to extend Unemployment benefits . Regular unemployment benefits are paid for a maximum of 26 weeks in most states . However , additional weeks of extended unemployment benefits are available during times of high unemployment . The unemployment extension legislation passed by Congress in February 2012 changed the way the tiers of Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) are structured . A tier of unemployment is an extension of a certain amount of weeks of unemployment benefits . There are currently four tiers of unemployment benefits . Each tier provides extra weeks of unemployment in addition to basic state unemployment benefits . Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) Tiers June - August 2012 : Tier 1 : 20 weeks Tier 2 : 14 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 6 % or higher Tier 3 : 13 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 7 % or higher Tier 4 : 6 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 9 % or higher Source and further information can be found here - <URL> - About.com Sources : <URL> - US Dept. of Labor <URL> - eHow <URL> - eHow Additional Info : You can file for UI over the internet here are some useful resources . <URL> <URL> - About.com <URL> - eHow
The ACA , aka ObamaCare , was specifically designed to be paid for using measures other than a straight income tax increase , which was due to one of Obama 's campaign promises not to raise income taxes on the working class ( sub-250k ) . As such , the 85 % of Americans who are insured through their employers will see little , if any , change in their 1040s for TY2014 . Assuming that your employer will continue to offer healthcare benefits after 2014 ( a bigger if for some ) , the only change in your taxes is that your W-2 will reflect the fact that you are insured , as well as showing the amount of deductible premium payments made on the plan over the year . There may be an additional form sent to you directly by your insurer that will be attached to your return along with your other proof of income/expenses . You should not see any increase in your taxes owed between 2013 and 2014 ( you have likely seen an increase in withholding between 2012 and 2013 , as some of the Bush tax cuts and some payroll tax subsidies were allowed to expire ) . The flip side is that , since you already have employer-provided healthcare , you probably wo n't be able to reduce your tax bill any in 2014 . As the law stands now , tax subsidies for healthcare only apply to plans purchased on the healthcare exchanges by people whose employers do not offer healthcare , or for whom the employer plan is deemed " not affordable " , so you 'll only be considered for tax credits if the individual rate of coverage for the employer plan is more than 9.5 % of your gross income ( the threshold of " affordability " ) . On top of that , there 's an unfortunate loophole in the ACA regarding subsidies called the " family glitch " ; the " affordability " of an employer health plan is based only on the cost of the employee-paid portion of the employee 's own coverage . This is typically the cheapest portion of a family 's health insurance plan ; coverage for spouses and children can drastically inflate that cost , but will not make the employee or family eligible for subsidies on an exchange-provided plan . It 's unlikely the glitch will get fixed before the individual mandate kicks in on March 31 2014 ; making such a surgical change to the law will pretty much require Democratic control of both chambers and the White House , and the earliest opportunity for that is 2015 . However , by executive order , Obama has instructed the IRS not to levy the tax penalty ( in effect waiving the individual mandate ) on uninsured spouses/children in a household if the filing shows that the employer-provided plan would cost in excess of the affordability threshold . So if your employer plan is untenable under the new rules you do n't have to have insurance at all ( but ironically , uninsured families of covered wage-earners were one of the demographics the ACA was supposed to bring into the fold ) . Here 's a short and probably incomplete list of other things that might affect what comes out of your paycheck , whether you figure it on your 1040 or not : Over-the-counter ( OTC ) medicines are no longer accepted as tax-deductible medical expenses , including for FSA , HSA and similar tax-deferred spending . In 2012 , they were accepted as tax-deductible when a " letter of medical necessity " for these items was provided by a doctor or specialist ( you could have gone to your PCP with a shopping list of drugs for your medicine cabinet and get a LMN covering them all ) . This will no longer be the case starting in 2013 , so you can not use your FSA to pay for these , and you may likely reduce your FSA/HSA contributions accordingly , increasing withheld taxes . Persons using an HSA or Archer account for ineligible medical expenses will pay a tax penalty of 10 to 20 % on the amount of the expenditure , so be careful when whipping out that debit card at the pharmacy . The threshold for medical expenses as an itemized deduction is now 10 % of taxable income as of TY2013 , up from 7.5 % , so if you just barely spent enough on medical expenses last year and do n't expect to spend any more this year , you might find your expenses no longer qualify and your taxable income takes a jump . Brand-name prescription drugs now have an additional tax , which is directly paid by Big Pharma , but you can bet they 'll bump up prices across the board to compensate , so make sure your healthcare plan for 2014 includes good prescription copays . " Pay to Play " Tax : Insurers themselves will pay a percentage of all premium revenue , based on their market share . This will create a balancing act ; obviously the insurers will want to pass this on with higher premiums or reduced services , but they have other benchmarks to meet ( or face even more taxation or forced refunds ) that will limit their ability to do this . Medicare Tax Hike : Individuals earning over $ 200k and married couples earning over $ 250k will see a .9 % increase in their employee-paid Medicare taxes withheld from each paycheck . If you earn less than that you will not see any change , however your employer , if they make over
One data point : I screwed up and simply missed one $ 25 bill for one month , I paid it the next month . I took about a 50 point hit from it .
Credit utilization ( and therefore , your credit score ) is n't impacted by one 's mortgage . I have a current mortgage and saw a zero utilization the one month that I paid my credit cards in full just before the bill was cut . What will change is your borrowing ability . Your debt to income will drop and the payment you used to make will be available to service a future debt if you wish . Note - obviously , a regularly paid on time mortgage helps one 's score and late payments will hurt . I am addressing just the ' utilization ' portion which is what i think the OP is asking . The credit report , strangely enough , does not take income into account . The focus instead is on utilization .
If you have zero activity on a card , the issuing bank may decide to close that card . They have some costs each month , and if you are n't using the card they are n't making money off of you . Your inactivity is also a risk because if you lost the card , and do n't realize it , and it falls into the wrong hands then it can be used for fraudulent transactions . In their view it might already have been hijacked . If they close your account that can hurt your score : your utilization number will go up , and the age of your accounts could go down . They want you to use their card so they make money on the transaction fees and hopefully interest payments .
Apparently it is up to the credit card company on how they want to report your available balance . Another disadvantage to the no-limit credit card may not be apparent to most people , but it is something noted by organizations like The Motley Fool , which is expert in many issues of finance and investment . Part of your credit score , about 30 % , considers the amount of money you have borrowed , and the limit on your present credit cards . A no-limit credit card company may report your limit as $ 0 if you have not used the card , or they may report a maximum limit available to you . They may not , nor are they obligated , to report times when you put tons of expenses on a credit card and then paid them off . While some companies will report your timely payments and paid off amounts , others simply report an extremely low limit . For instance if you spent $ 100 US Dollars ( USD ) , your limit might be considered $ 100 USD , or it may merely be reported as zero . You 'll need to check with a credit card company on how they report payments and limits on a no-limit credit card before you obtain one . Some people who are scrupulous are paying off their cards at the end of each month suffer major losses to their credit score , without even realizing it , if their spending ability is rated at zero , or their payments do n't count toward showing credit worthiness . <URL>
end question
start question
Should I sign the back of my credit card ?
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
Credit card , without a doubt . The reason is dispute resolution . If you dispute a charge on debit card - the money has left your account already , and if the dispute was accepted - you 'll get it back . If . Eventually . In the mean time your overdraft will be missing $ $ $ . For credit cards , you can catch a fraud action before the money actually leaves your pocket and dispute it then . In this case the charge is set aside , and you will only be required to actually pay if the dispute is rejected . I.e. : The money stays in your pocket , until the business proves that the charge is legit . In both cases , if the dispute is justified ( i.e. : there was indeed a fraud ) neither you nor the bank will lose money at the bottom line , it 's just who 's got the money during the dispute resolution process ( which may be lengthy ) that matters .
However , I did this before and it is a city owned unattended machine . Someone could have placed a <URL> on the machine that captures your credit card information . The fact that the machine is unattended makes this a definite possibility . This could have been done since the last time you used it without the city or any users catching on . This could also occur at a gas station , which you mentioned you had visited in the last few weeks . If you used your card online , check the news or the company 's website to make sure the site was n't compromised . Also , talk to your bank about when the charges were made . The theft could have occurred shortly before that . However , it 's also conceivable that your information was stolen a while ago and only recently used . Have you used your credit card online from a public computer/wi-fi network or over an unencrypted connection ? If not , have you logged into other accounts that use the same account information or could possibly expose your credit card details if those accounts were comprised ? Some people store financial information in their email , so this is another avenue for your information to be compromised . If you receive financial statements or documents with other personal information on them in paper form , do you shred them thoroughly or burn them before disposing of them ? Regardless of how " swanky " your community might be , there are people who will look through trash to find such information . Arguably , a more upscale community would be more vulnerable to this because an identity thief knows there is more information available there . Otherwise , it can be very difficult to pinpoint exactly when/where your information was compromised . I know it 's not the answer you want to hear , but unfortunately , finding the exact time/location of the theft may be impossible .
If you were making that large of a payment ( via a cashiers check or other withdrawal means from a cash account ) to a credit card , would the payment generate a Cash Transaction Report ? Probably , yes . If it does require the bank to make a CTR , then is there any harm in that or anything to be concerned about ( like that transaction appearing suspicious , personal reporting implications , etc. ) ? Are there any other reasons why one might want to make sure payments to a credit card are broken up made * in amounts smaller than $ 10K ? You should be concerned if you can not explain the source of the money ( legally ... ) . If you withdrew cash from your own account and paid your credit card with it , in case of questions asked you can show the account statement with the matching withdrawal , and you 're done . The point in this report is to point at people who move around large amounts of cash . Usually , people pay credit cards with checks or ACH transactions , but if you want cash - it 's your right , as long as the cash was obtained legally . But if you 're paying your credit cards off with the cash you got as a bribe or by selling cocaine on the streets , then you should be worried . By the way , breaking into smaller payments may not save you from being reported to the money laundering detection agencies . The report is per transaction , not per payment , so if the credit card statement is $ 11K and you pay $ 5K and $ 6K - the transaction is still $ 11K . Also , the bank can file a report even if it is not required ( it was clarified in the other answer to the same question you 're referring to ) , if the clerk thinks the transaction is suspicious . This leaves the decision on filing a report solely on the banks " common sense " and internal policies which you do n't know . So even paying $ 10 in cash may trigger a report if the bank suspects wrongdoing .
Yes , it is a very good idea to start your credit history early . It sounds like you have a good understanding of the appropriate use of credit , as a substitute for cash rather than a supplement to income . As long as you keep your expenses under control and pay off your card each month , I see no problems with the idea . Try to find a card with no annual fees , a low interest rate if possible ( which will be difficult at your age ) , and with some form of rewards such as cash back . Look for a reputable issuing bank , and keep the account open even after you get a new card down the road . Your credit score is positively correlated with having an account open for a long time , having a good credit usage to credit limit ratio , and having accounts in good standing and paid on time .
It can certainly help build a credit score , but remember that businesses gain credit differently from individuals . Depending on the country , there is n't usually a national register of business credit ratings the way there is for individuals . The credit record you 'd be gaining is with your own bank only . Banks will usually base your business credit record on revenue and transactional loads rather than merely on having and holding a credit card . That said , it is n't always that easy to get a business credit card and so it is a useful thing to have for credibility with clients ( depending on the type of work you do ) . A credit card can also sometimes work out cheaper ( and faster ) for financing small overdrafts than a regular business overdraft facility . That said , I 've found that larger loans over a five-year term can work out much cheaper for an established business than they would for an individual , even where the business itself has no history of using credit .
If the value of these hard assets is significant you probably have them insured , and for significant art work you should have had them appraised as part of getting them insured . Therefore the process of adding them into the net worth calculation would be trivial . Your goals should be a mix of liquid assets , and assets that are harder to sell , such as real estate . It should also include those items you are more reluctant to sell . In some cases these " investments " do need to be included in official calculations , such as applying for a student loan or financial aid , required financial disclosure statements for some government jobs , or applications for government assistance .
Either get it as cash or as a balance credit . Unless there 's a specific reason to do something else , these would be the most beneficial options . Using the reward balance towards purchases reduces the rewards you 'd be getting for these purchases . Since the reward used towards the purchase is not your " money spent " , you do n't get the reward on that amount . If you use your credit card to pay the full amount and apply your reward balance to the balance on your card - you 'll get rewards in full for your purchases .
The expense ratio is 0.17 % so doesnt that mean that for every 10K I keep in the money market fund I lose $ 17/year ? Not really . The expense ratio is taken before distributions are paid which applies to all mutual funds . Should I care about this ? In this case not really . If it was a taxable account , then other options may be more tax-efficient that is worth noting . The key with money market funds is that the expense ratio often represents how much money the administrators will take before paying out the rest . So , if your money market fund bought investments that paid .25 % then you 'd likely see .08 % as that is what is left over after the .17 % is taken in the dividends . If at the start of the year , the funds NAV is $ 1 , and at the end of the year , the funds NAV is still $ 1 , I havent lost anything right ? Right . <URL> has a good article on money market funds . Keep in mind that most money market funds are run as one of a number of funds from a fund family that may have to take a little less profit on the money market funds when rates are low .
The missing piece : what is the savings account for ? Is it earmarked for something in particular , or is it just money you have n't spent ? Paying off the 3k balance immediately will save you money . Go look at your credit statement and look and see how much it 's costing you in interest every month you continue to not pay it off . Certainly it 's costing more in interest than the bank is paying in interest . The exception is 0 % interest . If somehow you manage to not be paying interest , and that deal is still in place , then MAYBE it 's better to hold onto the cash for a rainy day . Even then , paying off the stupid bill and not having to worry about it does have benefits .
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
If I recall correctly , in order to activate it without another human 's intervention I had to call from a phone number they had on file . Otherwise , I believe I would have had to speak to a rep and do it that way . Presumably , that would entail some sort of verification that I was indeed the legitimate owner of the account . Another possibility , which has little to nothing to do with your account security , is management of the number-space . Cards that are not activated in some period of time ( 180 days ? ) can easily be cancelled . Whether this means that they then reuse the number or not , I have no idea . This may be question of reducing their liability , by reducing the number of possible cards that can be used fraudulently , since they ca n't be used until activated . ( Granted , if they still have the sticker on them and there are no safeguards built into the activation process , it would be a trivial matter to activate the card . )
First and foremost you should do more research on credit cards and what everything means . As expressed by others the balance transfer fee is not what you think it is . Credit cards can be great , they can also quickly erode your credit score and your standing . So understanding the basics is VERY important . The credit card that is right for you should have the following criteria . Have no annual fee . Be accepted where you plan to use it . Provide the best perks for your situation . The first two points should be straight forward , you should not have to pay a CC company for the privilege to use their card . They should pay you through perks and rewards . It should also be a CC that can be used for what you need it for . If you travel internationally a lot and the CC you choose only works within the US then what good is it ? The third point is where you need to ask yourself what you do a lot and if a CC can offer rewards through travel miles , or cash back or other bonuses based on your lifestyle . The transfer fee is not what you think it is , people who already are carrying debt on another credit card and would like to transfer that debt to another credit card would be interested in finding a fee or a low % . People do this to get a batter rate or to get away from a bad credit card . If one charges 28 % and another charges 13 % , well it makes sense to transfer existing debt over to the 13 % provided they do n't crush you on fees . Since you have no credit card debt ( assumption based on the fact you want to build your credit ) , you should ask yourself for what purpose and how often do you plan to use the credit card . Would this card be just for emergencies , and wont be used on daily purchases then a credit card that offers 3 % cash back on gasoline purchases is not for you . If you however love to travel and plan to use your credit card for a lot of purchases OR have a few large purchases ( insurance , tuition etc. ) then get a credit card that provides rewards like miles . It really comes down to you and your situation . There are numerous websites dedicated to the best credit card for any situation . The final thing I will say is what I mentioned at the beginning , its important , CC 's can be a tool to establish and improve your credit worthiness , they can also be a tool to destroy your credit worthiness , so be careful and make smart choices on what you use your card for . A credit score is like a mountain , it requires a slow and steady discipline to reach the top , but one misstep and that credit score can tumble quickly .
<URL> FDIC currently insures up to $ 250,000 . ( I would have put that as a comment to Jeffery but it says it was locked . ) You do n't want to put all your eggs in one basket . If you shop around , and keep shopping all the time you can keep your accounts in a single place so long as that single place provides the best deal . Do n't have any loyalty to your banking institutions because they do n't have any loyalty to you . Also , having lots of accounts means you are familiar with lots of institutions , so you are likely better at shopping around . Things I consider . For fewer institutions : Best rates Package deals , getting bigger discounts Better negotiation because you have much business with that bank Ease of managing accounts and summary statements Fewer phone calls to make in the case of emergencies For more institutions : Less people know my full financial history Less danger if any single bank is compromised I can play banks offers off of each other ( price matching or beating by 5 % ) More and varied accounts helps with credit score ( I think )
Payments for federal subsidized and unsubsidized loans are due at the latest six months following graduation . Although , there are some exceptions . Deferment Most people who qualify for a deferment do so under one of these two conditions : At least half-time enrollment in course work at an accredited college , university , or career development program . Being unemployed or unable to find work . If you are approved for the deferment your payments on your loans and interest will be postponed until you begin making payments . The government will pay the interest on your subsidized loans while deferred ; however , the interest on your unsubsidized loans will continue to accumulate . If you wish you can make payments on the interest to reduce your tax burden at the end of the year as it is deductible and that will also reduce the overall payment when you end classes . That option would have to be based on your specific financial situation . Some private school loans offer deferment also . The terms are up to the loan servicer when it comes to conditions of deferment and how long the deferment could last . Sallie Mae does have postponement options , but I am not certain of the details you can register and login to your loan account <URL> then review details carefully . If your classes begin before your payments are scheduled to be due then the in-school deferment will be all that you need to prevent you from defaulting . If not you may need to apply for forbearance . Forbearance Forbearance works the same as deferment , but is for people that do not qualify for deferment . You will accrue interest on both subsidized and unsubsidized , but you do not have to make payments . You would only want to have the forbearance untill your classes began , apply for the deferment . The typical conditions are : Financial hardship Illness Because you are just coming out of school if you call and ask for forbearance you will most likely be granted an automatic six months . More information can be found <URL> You can also check the status and balances of your federal student loans <URL>
If you have the ability to pay online with a guaranteed date for the transaction , go for it . My bank will let me pay a bill on the exact date i choose . When using the mail , of course , this introduces a level of risk . I asked about rates as the US currently has a near zero short term rate . At 3.6 % , $ 10,000 , this is $ 30/month or $ 1/day you save by delaying . Not huge , but better in your pocket than the bank 's .
If your house is repossessed because you 've defaulted on the mortgage then the bank sells the house ( probably cheap , because it 's a quick sale of a repossessed property ) , takes the money you owe them ( the mortgage balance plus the outstanding interest payments and any costs to sell the house like estate agent 's or auctioneer 's fees ) out of the proceeds , and then pays you the rest . If on the other hand the sale price does n't cover the mortgage and outstanding interest , then they can pursue you for the balance ( in many states of the US mortgages are " non-recourse " and they ca n't do this , but in the UK they can ) .
After doing some investigating , my employers contract with the credit card company has a clause that basically specifies that despite my name being on the credit card , and bills being sent to me , all liability is on the company . Additionally , the employer reserves the right to garnish wages in the event of a balance on the card . So it looks like it wo n't affect my credit score . I appreciate all of the advice .
I have been through some of this recently . These are the Ontario rules as I know them , and since my searches led to some other provinces ' rules , it seems likely they are the same in the rest of Canada with the possible exception of Quebec . First , if one of the people buying the house actively ca n't qualify for the mortgage due to bad credit , their name ca n't be on the deed . If someone else needs to cosign with you to improve the amount you can borrow or the rate you 'll be charged , their name needs to be on the deed . These things are not negotiable - the lender does n't want to lend you $ 200,000 to only buy half of a $ 250,000 house . ( Your cosigner does n't need to own an equal share , but they need to be on the deed . ) Second , if you are legally married , and you will live in the house together , it does n't matter whose name is on the deed , you both own all of the house . Many couples who are n't married may also choose to take on this arrangement . This is the " as joint tenants and not as tenants in common " wording you may see on documents . You do n't each own half the house the way a brother and sister might , you each own all of it . Neither can sell it without the other 's permission , or rent it out , or change the locks . There is simply no impact on any future divorce proceeding of whose name you put on the deed/mortgage , with the possible exception of some extra legal expenses if one person thinks they can do something they ca n't do and the other person has to get a court order to prove they ca n't . As long as you both know what you ca n't do , you 're cool . Keep in mind this does not apply to common law couples . For them , whose name ( s ) is/are on the deed is the only thing that matters ( in the absence of a cohabitation agreement . ) Whenever you " do n't need to " be listed as a borrower , it is very much to your advantage to be so listed . You get the benefit of improving your credit score if the loan is managed properly , and any loan that either one of you can afford alone is certain to be managed properly . So while the unneeded spouse may not be taking any risks by not being included on it ( assuming it 's a marital home ) they are possibly giving up some benefit .
Credit Cards There are quite a few statistics on this subject . <URL> - This might be a good starting point . The Federal Reserve reports that credit cards are used more than 20 billion times a year in the U.S. , with the total value of these transactions at about $ 1.9 trillion . Based on the number of transactions and the number of credit card holders , the average card holder uses a credit card 119 times a year , for transactions averaging $ 88 apiece . This comes to an average annual total of about $ 10,500 in credit card purchases . <URL> CardWeb reported that in the last year , the average size of credit card transaction tops $ 100 for the first time . 2003 's average of $ 101.64 is 1.9 % higher than last year 's $ 99.76 and represents 16 % increase in 10 years . <URL> At the end of 2009 the average purchase made with Visa or MasterCard Credit Cards was $ 82.56 , a number lower than previous years , where the average was slightly over $ 100 . You can order more recent reports on this figure from CardData . The indexcreditcards.com article might have some useful strategies for calculating these statistics , like combining the Federal Reserve data ( for example , from <URL> ) with Census and industry estimates . That 's probably the best place to start for recent data that should n't cost anything ( or if it does , the cost should n't be prohibitive ) . <URL> looks like it compiles the information you need too , but according to their site , subscriptions start at $ 1,495.00 . If you need this data for research purposes , citing a website is n't sufficient , but assuming you describe how to came up with your statistics , combining data sets in the way mentioned above should work . Debit Cards For similar information relating to debit cards , the <URL> also has information about that , since they work with payment processing networks . There were approximately 46.7 billion debit card transactions in 2011 , with a value of more than $ 1.8 trillion . This was a 24 percent increase from the number of transactions in 2009 ( 37.6 billion ) and a 27 percent increase from the value of transactions in 2009 ( $ 1.4 trillion ) . Signature debit transactions represented about 63 percent of transaction volume and 61 percent of transaction value in 2011 ; the remainder were PIN debit transactions . mainstreet.com also cites <URL> which finds that " the average debit card transaction amount in 2010 was $ 71 . " This is n't a random sample because it only represents data on mint.com users . Intuitively , I can think of reasons for why users of mint.com would spend either more or less than the population as a whole , but I 'm not sure which is true . Keep in mind , though , that debit card transactions <URL> as Electronic Fund Transfers , which could complicate the picture . I have n't researched payment processing networks extensively , so I ca n't make a statement on that one way or another .
end question
start question
Anything wrong with American Express " Personal High Yield Savings " account ?
All interest rates are in the toilet so 1.3 % is n't bad considering . There do n't appear to be any show-stopper restrictions from my cursory look at the FAQ .
Does the market automatically assume a rescheduled call means something major , like the auditors are n't signing the financials , is going on ? Yes . ( If so , why ? ) People - including investors - are emotional . And suspicious . And paranoid . Financial discussions tend to make everything sound like a cold , clinical science , and to some degree that is true . But you should never look past something much more simple - people are people . And of course , once all is said and done , acts like a reschedule often do mean something is up . So you 've now got a nice mix of fact and emotion . Does it mean that 95 % of the shares ' holders are insiders who all decided to sell when they learned about whatever is causing the delay in the con call ? No . See Littleadv 's answer .
There are two questions : how long do you have to keep some records for tax purposes . is there a danger if bank information from a closed account is found . Looking only at the second question . The information on a typical bank statement will include name , account number , address , balances . It could even contain information about other accounts if intra-bank or inter-bank transfers were done . This information can be enough for some unsavory people to tap info your credit history or to open new credit accounts . I have seen several web based systems for new credit cards where they tap into your credit history and ask you which bank was yours when you lived in city x . They give you 5 to pick from . Knowing the answer cuts down on guessing . Over time this information becomes less useful but there is a window where it is still usable . Since the bank account has not been closed yet the window of usability is n't even close to being closed . The most prudent way to get rid of the documents is by shredding , either using your own shredder or with a service .
There is no ready made forumulae . Put the Deposit in cell B3 as 10,000,000 Put the rate of interest in Cell B2 as 2 % [ Format this as Percnetage ] In Cell c3 write the formulae as = B3 * B2 * 3/12 [ Interest for 3 months till Dec ] In cell B4 write = B3 + C3 [ Principal as of 1st jan 13 and in cell C4 as = B4 * B2 [ Interest for full years ] In Cell B5 wirte = B4 + C4 [ new principal as of Jan 14 ] and in cell C5 as = B5 * B2 * 3/12 [ interest for 3 months on year 2014 ] In Cell B6 write = B5 + C5 . This is your revised amount at the end of period . My Calculation show this as 10,319,340 If you now want to find the interest for final amount of 10,300,000 use the Goal Seek function in XLS 2003 it is under tools - > Goal Seek , Enter the values as Set Cell : B6 To Value : 10,300,000 By Changing Cell : B2 The answer I got for the above problem is 1.87982299790449
<URL> will help . It confirms the ESA permits you to change beneficiaries . But the plan document must allow this , so it 's back to the broker .
The bank wo n't let you because : Differences in required account features -- Business accounts have different features ( many of them legal features ) that are required by businesses . For instances : Do you want to be able to deposit cheques that are written out to your business name ? You need a business account for that . Your business could be sold . Then it would n't be your business , so it would n't make sense to put the business account under your personal name . The bank account and the cash it holds is a business asset and should be owned by the business , so when the business is sold the account goes with it . This is especially the case for a corporation that has shareholders , and not a sole proprietorship . For a business , you could also , in theory , assign other people as signing authorities on the business account ( e.g. your corporate treasurer ) , and the individuals performing that role could change over time . Business accounts allow for this kind of use . Market segmentation -- The bank has consciously undertaken to segment their product offerings in order to maximize their profit . Market segmentation helps the bottom line . Even if there were zero legal reasons to have separate personal vs. business accounts , banks would still make it their policy to sell different account types according to use because they can make more money that way . Consider an example in another industry : The plain-old telephone company also practices segmentation w.r.t. personal/business . Do you want a telephone line for a business and listed as such in the phone book ? You need a business line . Do you want a phone line hooked up at a non-residential address ? You need a business line . Here it 's clear it is less of a legal issue than with the bank account , and it does n't matter that the technical features of the phone line may be identical for the basic product offerings within each segment . The phone company has chosen to segment and price their product offerings this way . TL ; DR Q. Why do companies choose to charge some kinds of customers more than others for essentially the same underlying service ? A. Because they can .
Are you working for a company that offers a Dependent Care Account ? You may be able to withhold up to $ 5000/yr pre tax for care for you child . If you cover more than half her expenses , she is your dependent . You ca n't " double dip . " If she is your dependent , she can not be the care provider for purposes of the DCAS , see <URL> top of p7 " Payments to Relatives or Dependents . " How do you think a business would change your situation ? The DCA is a small tax break , if you have no business now , this break is n't something that should drive this .
I think Fidelity has a very nice introduction to <URL> that may give you the background you need . People love to put stocks in categories however the distinction is more of a range and can change over time . JB King makes a good point that for most people the two stocks you mentioned would both be considered value right now as they are both stable companies with a significant dividend . You are correct though Pfizer might be considered " more growth . " A more drastic example would be the difference between Target and Amazon . Both are retail companies that sell a wide variety of products . Target is a value company : a established company with stable revenues that uses its income to give a fairly stable dividend . Amazon is a growth company : that is reinvesting its revenues back into the corporation to grow itself as fast as possible . The price of the Amazon stock reflects what people think will be future growth ( future income ) for the company . Whereas Target 's price appears to be based on the idea that future income will be similar to current income . You can see why growth companies like Amazon might be more risky as that growth you paid a high price for may not be realized , but the payout may be much higher as well .
The United States taxes nonresident aliens on two types of income : First , a nonresident alien who is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is taxed on income that is effectively connected with that trade or business . Second , certain types of U.S.-source payments are subject to income tax withholding . The determination of when a nonresident alien is engaged in a U.S. trade or business is highly fact-specific and complex . However , keeping assets in a U.S. bank account should not be treated as a U.S. trade or business . A nonresident alien 's interest income is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding at a rate of 30 percent under Section 1441 of the tax code . Interest on bank deposits , however , benefit from an exception under Section 1441 ( c ) ( 10 ) , so long as that interest is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business . Even though no tax needs to be withheld on interest on a bank deposit , the bank should still report that interest each year to the IRS on Form 1042-S . The IRS can then send that information to the tax authority in Brazil . Please keep in mind that state and local tax rules are all different , and whether interest on the bank deposits is subject to state or local tax will depend on which state the bank is in . Also , the United States does tax nonresident aliens on wages paid from a U.S. company , if those wages are treated as U.S.-source income . Generally , wages are U.S.-source income if the employee provides services while physically present in the United States . There are a few exceptions to this rule , but they depend on the amount of wages and other factors that are specific to the employee 's situation . This is an area where you should really consult with a U.S. tax advisor before the employment starts . Maybe your company will pay for it ?
4.7 is a pretty low rate , especially if you are deducting that from your taxes . If you reduce the number by your marginal tax rate to get the real cost of the money you end up with a number that is n't far off from inflation , and also represents a pretty low ' yield ' in terms of paying off the loan early . ( e.g. if your marginal tax rate is 28 % , then the net you are paying in interest after the tax deduction is 4.7 * .72 = 3.384 ) While I 'm all for paying off loans with higher rates ( since it 's in effect the same as making that much risk free on the money ) it does n't make a lot of sense when you are down at 3.4 unless there is a strong ' security factor ' ( which really makes a difference to some folks ) to be had that really helps you sleep at night . ( to be realistic , for some folks close to retirement , there can be a lot to be said for the security of not having to worry about house payments , although you do n't seem to be in that situation yet ) As others have said , first make sure you have enough liquid 'em ergency money ' in something like a money market account , or a ladder of short term CD 's If you are sure that the sprouts will be going to college , then there 's a lot to be said for kicking a decent amount into a 529 , Coverdell ESA ( Educational Savings Account ) , uniform gift to minors account , or some combination of those . I 'm not sure if any of those plans can be used for a kid that has not been born yet however . I 'd recommend <URL> as a good starting point to get more information on your various options . As with retirement savings , money put in earlier has a lot more ' power ' over the final balance due to compounding interest , so there 's a lot to be said for starting early , although depending on what it takes to qualify for the plans there could be such a thing as too early ;-) ) . There 's nothing wrong with Managed mutual funds as long as the fund objective and investing style is in alignment with your objectives and risk tolerance ; The fund is giving you a good return relative to the market as a whole ; You are not paying high fees or load charges ; You are not losing a lot to taxes . I would always look at the return after expenses when comparing to other options , and if the money is not in a tax deferred account , also look at what sort of tax burden you will be faced with . A fund that trades a lot will generate more short term gains which means more taxes than compared to a more passive fund . Anything lost to taxes is money lost to you so needs to come out of the total return when you calculate that . Sometimes such funds are better off as a choice inside an IRA or 401K , and you can instead use more tax efficient vehicles for money where you have to pay the taxes every year on the gains . The reason a lot of folks like index funds better is that : The majority of managed funds do n't manage to beat the indexes Lots of good no-load and low expense options abound , including in ETF form . The lack of short term trades means the tax burden is way lower , making them good for investments outside of a tax deferred accounts . Once you subtract management fees and money paid out for taxes , even fewer managed funds yeild the same net return on investment that a low cost index fund does . Given your described age , it 's not appropriate now , but in the long run as you get closer to retirement , you may want to start looking at building up some investments that are geared more towards generating income , such as bonds , or depending on taxes where you live , Municipal bonds . In any case , the more money you can set aside for retirement now , both inside and outside of tax deferred accounts , the sooner you will get to the point of the ' critical mass ' you need to retire , at that point you can work because you want to , not because you have to .
As is so often the case , there is an asterisk next to that 2.5 % interest offer . It leads you to a footnote which says : Savings Interest Rate Offer of 2.5 % is available between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 on all net new deposits made between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 to a maximum of $ 250,000.00 per Account registration . You only earn 2.5 % interest on deposits made during those three months . Also , on the full offer info page , it says : During the Offer Period , the Bank will calculate Additional Interest on eligible net new deposits and : All interest payments are ineligible for the purposes of calculating Additional Interest and will not be calculated for the purposes of determining eligible daily balances . In other words , any interest paid into an Applicable Account , including Additional Interest , will not be treated as a new deposit for subsequently calculating Additional Interest payments . I could n't totally parse out all the details of the offer from their legalese , but what it sounds like is you will earn 2.5 % interest on money that you deposit into the account during those three months . Any interest you accrue during that time will not count as a deposit in this sense , and so will not earn 2.5 % compounded returns . The " During the Offer Period " qualification also makes it sound like this extra interest will only be paid during the three months ( presumably at a 2.5 % annualized rate , but I ca n't see where it actually says this ) . So essentially you are getting a one-time bonus for making deposits during a specific three-month period . The account does n't really earn 2.5 % interest in the normal sense . The long-term interest rate will be what it normally is for their savings accounts , which <URL> says is 1.05 % .
The word you are looking for is " budget " You ca n't pay off debt if you are spending more than you earn . Therefore , start a budget that you both work on at the same time , and both agree 100 % with . Evaluate your progress on that budget on a regular basis . From your question , you understand what your obligations are and you seem to manage money pretty well . Therefore your key to retirement is just the ticket you need . As newlyweds , you both have to be VERY aware that the main reason a marriage fails in the US is money issues . Starting out with a groundwork where you both agree to your budget and can keep it will help you a lot in your upcoming life . Then , for some details Take any match the employer provides on the 401K . Make sure you have $ 0 in long term debt . If you have unsecured debt , setup your budget to aggressively remove it If you debt is " cheap " like 2 % interest on a student loan , pay it as agreed Save up 6 months of your monthly living expenses as your emergency fund . ( This is to be kept in a savings or checking account which earns basically nothing . Sorry . ) Fully fund a ( Roth/Traditional ) IRA for the both of you . ( $ 10K / year ) FOR EXAMPLE : Start your IRA with Vanguard . Invest your money in the Star Fund . Of course your actual investment goals , tolerance for risk and other factors will determine the best company and fund for you . If right now you just need a place to start , a Vangaurd Star Fund is a safe bet and a good starting point . Feed it monthly . If you ca n't fully fund it right away ( I still ca n't ) add another percent of your pay every 6 months until you do . ( littleadv ) The decision re Roth vs Traditional IRA should be made based on your current and potential future tax rate . Generally , if your current tax rate is lower than the rate you expect at your retirement - Roth makes sense . Otherwise , go with Traditional . Roth would also make sense when you can not contribute to the Traditional due to the limitations on your income . Also , if you decide to go with Traditional IRA and your current tax rate goes down , you can convert from Traditional to Roth and utilize the lower tax rate that you 'd have . Once you 're Roth - you can not go back . ( / littleadv ) Save up money for your house , car , new business , monster truck or whatever . Spend this money regularly , because if you are doing the other things , you are doing good with money and you should enjoy your life . I still do n't have all these things done , it is just my plan If you still have all of your money accounted for , congrats . Feed your 401K to the max . Sprinkle your charitable donations anywhere in the list where you feel it is important .
( Since you used the dollar sign without any qualification , I assume you 're in the United States and talking about US dollars . ) You have a few options here . I wo n't make a specific recommendation , but will present some options and hopefully useful information . Here 's the short story : You do n't want to start buying individual stocks with that amount of money . There are several reasonable mutual funds available with the amount of money you 're talking about . Treasury savings bonds are an option . They are convenient and come with guarantees , and the government planned them for exactly this purpose . However , the rates are quite low . You can leave it in a savings account . This is convenient , but you probably wo n't keep up with inflation . You can buy certificates of deposit ( CDs ) from a bank . Individual stocks To buy individual stocks , you need to go through a broker . These brokers charge a fee for every transaction , usually in the neighborhood of $ 7 . Since you probably wo n't want to just buy and hold a single stock for 15 years , the fees are probably unreasonable for you . If you want the educational experience of picking stocks and managing a portfolio , I suggest not using real money . Mutual funds Most mutual funds have minimum investments on the order of a few thousand dollars . If you shop around , there are mutual funds that may work for you . In general , look for a fund that : has a suitably low minimal investment , allows you to make a custodial account for your daughter , has a low expense ratio ( much less than 1 % ) , does n't have transaction fees ( sometimes called " load " ) , and subject to taste , tracks an index ( such as the S&amp;P 500 ) and does n't try to be too fancy . An example of a fund that meets these requirements is <URL> from Charles Schwabb , which tracks the S&amp;P 500 . Buy the product directly from the mutual fund company : if you go through a broker or financial manager they 'll try to rip you off . The main advantage of such a mutual fund is that it will probably make your daughter significantly more money over the next 15 years than the safer options . The tradeoff is that you have to be prepared to accept the volatility of the stock market and the possibility that your daughter might lose money . Treasury Bonds Your daughter can buy savings bonds through the US Treasury 's <URL> website . There are two relevant varieties : Series EE bonds , which do not specifically track inflation . Series I bonds , which do specifically track inflation . You and your daughter seem to be the intended customers of these products : they are available in low denominations and they guarantee a rate for up to 30 years . The Series I bonds are the only product I know of that 's guaranteed to keep pace with inflation until redeemed at an unknown time many years in the future . It is probably not a big concern for your daughter in these amounts , but the interest on these bonds is exempt from state taxes in all cases , and is exempt from Federal taxes if you use them for education expenses . The main weakness of these bonds is probably that they 're too safe . You can get better returns by taking some risk , and some risk is probably acceptable in your situation . Savings Accounts Savings accounts , including so-called " money market accounts " from banks are a possibility . They are very convenient , but you might have to shop around for one that : offers custodial accounts or accounts for minors and does n't charge fees or unreasonably reduce the interest rate for the amount of money you 're talking about . I do n't have any particular insight into whether these are likely to outperform or be outperformed by treasury bonds . Remember , however , that the interest rates are not guaranteed over the long run , and that money lost to inflation is significant over 15 years . Certificates of Deposit ( CDs ) Certificates of deposit are what a bank wants you to do in your situation : you hand your money to the bank , and they guarantee a rate for some number of months or years . You pay a penalty if you want the money sooner . The longest terms I 've typically seen are 5 years , but there may be longer terms available if you shop around . You can probably get better rates on CDs than you can through a savings account . The rates are not guaranteed in the long run , since the terms wo n't last 15 years and you 'll have to get new CDs as your old ones mature . Again , I do n't have any particular insight on whether these are likely to keep up with inflation or how performance will compare to treasury bonds . Watch out for the same things that affect savings accounts , in particular fees and reduced rates for balances of your size .
I would say it 's all relative . Take the following two scenarios : I 'm a daytrader and I can make $ 1,000,000 a year with my aggressive trading , but I have to pay a 35 % tax rate . My remaining profit is $ 650,000 . I 'm a long-term trader and I can make $ 500,000 a year with less frequent trading . My tax rate is 20 % . My remaining profit is $ 400,000 . If you were facing these options , would you chose # 2 just because you pay a lower tax rate , even though you make less money ? These numbers are of course fictional , but the point I 'm trying to make is that everyone will seek the method that allows them to make the most money . If they have to pay a higher tax rate , so be it . One other thought : daytraders will have higher expenses , which are deductible .
First thing I 'd say is do n't start with investing . The foundation of solid finances is cash flow . Making more than you spend , reliably ; knowing where your money goes ; having a system that works for you to make sure you make more than you spend . Until you have that , your focus may as well be on getting there , because you ca n't fix much else about your finances until you fix this . A number you want to know is your percentage of income saved , and a good goal for that is about 15 % , with 10-12 % going to retirement savings and the rest to shorter-term goals and emergency fund and so forth . ( Of course the right percentage here depends on your goals and situation , but for most people this is a kind of minimum savings rate to be in good shape . ) Focus on your savings rate . This is your profitability , if you view yourself as a business . If it 's crappy or negative , your finances will be a mess . Two ways to improve it are to spend less or to improve your earnings power . Doing both is even better . The book <URL> is good for showing how to obsessively focus on cash flow , even though you may not share their zeal for early retirement . A simpler exercise than what they recommend : take 3 months of your checking and credit card statements , go through each expenditure and put them in a spreadsheet column , SUM ( ) that column . Then add up 3 months of after-tax paychecks . Divide both numbers by three and compare . ( The 3 months is to average out your spending , which probably varies a lot by month . ) After positive cash flow and savings rate , the next thing I 'd go through is insurance . Risk management for what you have . This can include checking you have all the important insurance coverages ( homeowner 's / renter 's , auto , potentially umbrella , term life , disability , and of course health insurance , are some highlights ) ; and also adjusting all your policies to be most cost-effective , which usually means raising the deductible if you have a good emergency fund . Often you can raise the deductible on policies you have , and use the savings to add more catastrophe coverage ( such as term life if you did n't have it , or boosting the liability protection on your homeowner 's , or whatever ) . Remember , cover catastrophes as cheaply and comprehensively as possible , but do n't worry about reimbursement for non-catastrophic expenses . I like this book , <URL> , because it covers all the main personal finance topics , not just investing ; and because it is smart and simple . All the main stuff to think about is in the one book and the advice is solid and uncomplicated . Investing can truly be dead easy ; most people would be fine with this advice : buy a single low-expense-ratio balanced fund or target-date retirement fund in your tax-advantaged retirement account ( 401k or IRA ) ; keep putting money into it every month , at least 10 % of income ; leave it alone . " Leave it alone " means do n't lower your savings rate , leave your money in the fund no matter what happens , and do n't take out a loan from the 401k . find a good yield on a savings account or money-market fund from a reputable , convenient institution , and put your savings for pre-retirement goals ( house , car , emergencies ) in there . ... there is no 3 . seriously , anything else you read is just micro-optimizing , or often undermining , the above plan , which is already fine for almost everyone even though it involves only two simple financial products ( an all-in-one retirement fund and a cash account that earns some interest ) . Honestly , I do micro-optimize and undermine my investing , and I 'm guessing most people on this forum do . But it 's not something I could defend objectively as a good use of time . It probably is necessary to do some reading to feel financially literate and confident in an investment plan , but the reading is n't really because a good plan is complicated , it 's more to understand all the complicated things that you do n't need to do , since that 's how you 'll know not to do them . ;-) Especially when salespeople and publications and TV are telling you over and over and over that you need to know a bunch of crap and do a bunch of things . People who have a profitable " business of me " are the ones who end up with a lot of money . Not people who spend a lot of time screwing with investments . ( People who get rich investing invest professionally - as their " business of me " - they do n't goof around with their 401k after work . ) Financial security is all about your savings rate , i.e. your personal profitability . No shortcuts , other than lotteries and rich uncles .
To be in a health savings account you must be in a high deductible health plan , but the advantage is that the money rolls over from year to year if you do n't use it , but it can only be used for qualified medical expenses . A flexible spending account has its advantage as well : You can use it for dependent care as well as medical expenses , but it 's part of a cafeteria plan and you lose the money that you do n't spend by the end of the year ( rather than it simply rolling over to the next ) . Another benefit in a FSA is that if you allocate 200/mo to it , and you need to get surgery in January that costs 2400 dollars and then you lose your job in February , you just got 2400 dollars of surgery for 200 dollars pre-tax :) In summary : Move to France for real health care :) just kidding
The " load " is the act of you directly putting money into the account for the card . The " maximum load " is thus the most possible money you can add to the account at one time . What makes this different from a " maximum balance " is that you can add money to your balance separately from a load - specifically , from getting a refund . So technically you could load 15000 onto the account , spend 5000 , load 5000 more , and that would be OK . If you get a refund before you spend more out , however , you would exceed the maximum balance and be in violation of your card agreement - even though you did n't violate the maximum load amount . The load is also mentioned later in that table , in the form of maximum annual load/spend ( which are both unlimited on that card ) , so this helps to clarify that this " maximum load " is actually the maximum amount you can load at any one time . Some cards actually have maximum daily/monthly loads which are different than their maximum balances or spend sums , which makes the difference in the definitiosn of " load " , " spend " , and " balance " to be important distinctions .
A 529 has a custodian and beneficiary . If , say , my Mom is custodian and my daughter the beneficiary , neither my daughter , my wife , nor I can access this account . In fact , if my daughter chooses not to attend college , Mom can change beneficiaries . So , a 529 is ideal for what you have described . By the way , your wife may have broken the law . Money in your child 's name/SSN can not simply be taken from the account at a parent 's whim . You have every right to ask for an accounting of that money and insist she return it to your child 's account . Edit - I was going to add that UTMA money may only be spent for the benefit of the child , and not for day to day items , food , clothing , etc. . The article <URL> provides a bit of support to my position on that .
If you know what bank your parents used , call them and ask . ( Or you might have to go there and show id ) . Chances are if such an account exists , it would be at the same bank . You can also search for unclaimed property . <URL> .
Without knowing your specific goals , I 'd suggest you review the choices at <URL> . This site discusses the accounts for children and tax benefits for UK residents .
end question
start question
How can I figure out when I 'll be able to write call options of a stock ?
Call the CBOE , the Chicago Board of Options Exchange I 've requested options on several IPOs in the past . You mainly have to convince them that there is a market for them ( or they wo n't be inclined to provide liquidity ) . The CBOE could talk to the company in question to help convince them , or the CBOE will just tell you when the options will begin trading . Oh yeah , sometimes they 'll ask you who you work for , just try to avoid that question , they do n't like to talk to individual/retail investors .
This is called " <URL> " . If your company is publicly traded it is definitely doable through your broker . If your company is private , you 'll have to ask them if it is possible , and if it is - how the process works . Re taxes , hard to tell since you did n't mention what country you 're from . But generally , in all the tax jurisdictions I know of ( which is not a lot ) the amount you get above the amount that you paid is considered salary in this scenario and is taxed accordingly .
Prices quoted are primarily the offer prices quoted by the numerous market makers on the stock exchange ( s ) willing to sell you the stock . There is another price which generally is n't seen on these websites , the bid prices , which are lower prices quoted by buyers and market makers willing to buy your shares from you . You would n't see those prices , unless you login to your trade terminal . How meaningful are they to you depends on what you want to do buy or sell . If you want to buy then yes they are relevant . But if you want to sell , then no . And remember some websites delay market information by 15 minutes , in case of Google you might have seen that the volume is delayed by 15 minutes . So you need to consider that also while trading , but may n't be a concern unless you are trying to buy out the company .
The CEO should be concerned with events that make it possible for the company to be more successful . This could be something that directly led to more sales . It could be being part of the team that won a new contract , or the delivery of code that allowed them to release the next version of the software . It could be something that indirectly led to more sales or more profit . Getting a letter or award from a customer for a job well done is a great thing . It could also be learning a new skill or incorporating a new technology into the products or the workflow . This allows them to add it to the corporate resume . Managers will have a similar list . They want to know what you have done to help them be more successful . Sometimes they will ignore items that help other managers , but sometimes they see the benefit to these extra projects . Sometimes going out on a limb , and only being partially successful can also be considered a victory . I have know employees who volunteered for a position that was outside of their comfort zone in order to allow the company to fill a gap . If they did n't fill the position they would lose money . An employee that does this should be recognized . You should start with listing everything you can think of , and do n't worry about an item being too small . Then pare it down before the final submission . You can either go for a small number of grand slams , or a larger number of homeruns . Do n't try to say the CEO only cares about projects or skills , they frequently want to see both . I would n't include a photo , it should n't be relevant to who gets the bonus . And start working on the list for next year : flag every positive email , note every emergency call , every new skill learned when they happen , not just a few days before the letter is due .
Expected this to be a bit easier than it was , but dug around for a while and found what I hope is deep enough answer for your situation . Here 's the live report on NASDAQ 's site : <URL> Top 5 Holders FMR LLC 15,335,005 CAPITAL RESEARC ... 12,730,080 PRICE T ROWE AS ... 10,054,346 VANGUARD GROUP ... 9,220,692 STATE STREET CO. . . 8,476,124 You can page almost endlessly through the rest of the institutional owners here : <URL> Insider Control Note Larry , Sergei &amp; Eric Schmidt together own > 90 % of the Class B shares of the stock , which have 10 votes each ( vs. 1 vote per Class A share ) , so they apparently control 68 % of all voting rights in the company ( think I read that in their latest 10Q ) Freshness Looks like that report is actually refreshed ( via SEC Form 4 filings ) on a daily basis , w / the baselines taken from quarterly 13F filings - not sure , that 's all new to me , took that from description offered on site , here : " The data displayed in the Holdings Summary provides a snapshot of institutional holdings and activity for a particular stock . The institutional holdings summary data encompasses the holdings and change from most recent 13F filings . The insider filer data counts the number of monthly positions over 3 month and 12 month time spans . Summary data is calculated daily , using the most up to date information available . " Further Info While the report 's on NASDAQ.com , it 's apparently sourced from EDGAR Online , so if the depth/formatting of the NASDAQ report is n't what you 're looking for , you might try that too .
The " D " suffix is designated for stocks that are going through a corporate reorganization and is typically applied for those stocks that is about to or just has undergone a reverse split . It typically lasts about 20 trading days ( almost a calendar month ) . In the case of MDCN ( Medican Enterprises ) is traded as MDCND for the period 20150418 until 20150514 . On 20150515 it reverted back to MDCN . It had a 10:1 reverse split with exdate 20150420 . Regarding multiple tickers - a ticker is just a point-in-time identifier . This company has had many tickers across its lifetime : TCXC TCXB TCXBD MDCN MDCND and possible XCAL and XCALE . The 5th letter suffix is detailed here : <URL>
I 'm a retired stockbroker/Registered Investment Advisor . My initial discussions with prospects never had a fee . Restricted stock is unsaleable without specific permission from the issuing company , and typically involves time specifc periods when stock can be sold and/or amounts of stock that can be sold . Not for DIY . Financial planners may be able to assist you , if they are conversant in restricted stock , though that 's not a common situation for most clients . Any stockbroker at a major firm ( Merrill Lynch , UBS , Royal Bank of Canada , Morgan Stanley , JP Morgan , etc. ) will be knowledgeable and advise you ( w/o charge ) how to trade the stock . Always talk to more than one firm , and do n't be in a hurry . If you feel comfortable with the discussion , you can pursue a deeper relationship . In my professional experience , clients valued service , accessibility , knowledge . Price was way down on the list ; many of my clients were not wealthy people - they just needed help navigating a very confusing ( and necessary ) part of their lives . Good luck .
Just so I 'm clear - the end result is a long call , and you think the stock is going up . There is nothing wrong with that fundamentally . Be aware though : That 's a <URL> trade . This means if your stock does n't increase in price during the remaining time to expiration of your call option , the option will lose some of its value every day . It may still lose some of its value every day , depending on how much the stock price increases . The value of the call option just goes down and down as it approaches maturity , even if the stock price stays about the same . Being long a call ( or a put ) is a tough way to make money in the options market . I would suggest using an out-of-the-money butterfly spread . The potential returns are a bit less . However , this is a cheap positive theta trade so you avoid time decay on the value of the option .
Trying to " time the market " is usually a bad idea . People who do this every day for a living have a hard time doing that , and I 'm guessing you do n't have that kind of time and knowledge . So that leaves you with your first and third options , commonly called lump-sum and dollar cost averaging respectively . Which one to use depends on where your preferences lie on the risk/reward scpectrum . Dollar cost averaging ( DCA ) has lower risk and lower reward than lump sum investing . In my opinion , I do n't like it . DCA only works better than lump sum investing if the price drops . But if you think the price is going to drop , why are you buying the stock in the first place ? Example : Your uncle wins the lottery and gives you $ 50,000 . Do you buy $ 50,000 worth of Apple now , or do you buy $ 10,000 now and $ 10,000 a quarter for the next four quarters ? If the stock goes up , you will make more with lump-sum ( LS ) than you will with DCA . If the stock goes down , you will lose more with LS than you will with DCA . If the stock goes up then down , you will lose more with DCA than you will with LS . If the stock goes down then up , you will make more with DCA than you will with LS . So it 's a trade-off . But , like I said , the whole point of you buying the stock is that you think it 's going to go up , which is especially true with an index fund ! So why pick the strategy that performs worse in that scenario ?
Options are contractual instruments . Most options you 'll run into are contracts which allow you to buy or sell stock at a given price at some time in the future , if you feel like it ( it gives you the option ) . These are Call and Put options , respectively ( for buying the stock and selling the stock ) . If you have a lot of money in an index fund ETF , you may be able to protect your portfolio against a market decline by ( e.g. ) buying Put options against the ETF for a substantially lower price than the index fund currently trades at . If the market crashes and your fund falls in value significantly , you can exercise the options , selling the fund at the price that your option has specified ( to the counter-party of your contract ) . This is the risk that the option mitigates against . Even if you do n't have one particular fund with your investments , you could still buy a put option on a similar fund , and resell it to another person in lieu of exercise ( they would be capable of buying the stock and performing the exercise themselves for profit if necessary ) . In general , if you are buying an option for safety , it should be an option either on something you own , or something whose price behavior will mimic something you own . You will note that options are linked to the price of stocks . Futures are contracts whose values are linked to the price of other things , typically commodities such as oil , gold , or orange juice . Their behaviors may diverge . With an option you can have a contractual guarantee on the exact investment you 're trying to protect . ( Additionally , many commodities ' value may fall at the same time that stock investments fall : during economic contractions which reduce industrial activity , resulting in lower profits for firms and less demand for commodities . ) You may also note that there are other structures that options may have - PUT options on index funds or similar instruments are probably most specifically relevant to your interests . The downside of protecting yourself with options is that it costs money to buy this option , and the option eventually expires , so you may lose money . Essentially , you are buying safety and risk-tolerance from the option contract 's counterparty , and safety is not free . I can not inform you what level of safety is appropriate for your portfolio 's needs , but more safety is more expensive .
Any institution that issues checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the passive side . Any institution that clears checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the originating side . Not any institution that can be - in fact is . Your credit union does n't provide this service because they do n't want to . It costs them money to implement and support it , but they do n't see the required benefit to justify it . They can . My credit union does that .
Frequently neighboring states reach an agreement that allow only the state where you live to levy taxes on income . The state where you earn that income does n't tax you , and does n't even require you to file any forms . These agreements are done by specific states , and they generally share a border . But , you will still end up counting all the income you receive as income earned in your home state . If you live in the state with the lower tax rate that makes you very happy , because you will save money . Even if you do n't save money you save time because you do n't have to fill out tax forms for both states . If there is no agreement between your two states , then generally you will only count the income where it is earned . Of course you will only be taxed once , and the other state will either ignore it , or give you a credit for the income tax paid to the other state . In some states local jurisdiction : cities , towns , counties also have income taxes . If they do they will be taxing you on all your income that is taxed by your state .
Your corporation would file a corporate income tax return on an annual basis . One single month of no revenue does n't mean much in that annual scheme of things . Total annual revenue and total annual expenses are what impact the results . In other words , yes , your corporation can book revenues in ( say ) 11 of 12 months of the year but still incur expenses in all months . Many seasonal businesses operate this way and it is perfectly normal . You could even just have , say , one super-awesome month and spend money the rest of the year . Heck , you could even have zero revenue but still incur expenses -- startups often work like that at first . ( You 'd need investment funding , personal credit , a loan , or retained earnings from earlier profitable periods to do that , of course . ) As long as your corporation has a reasonable expectation of a profit and the expenses your corporation incurs are valid business expenses , then yes , you ought to be able to deduct those expenses from your revenue when figuring taxes owed , regardless of whether the expenses were incurred at the same approximate time as revenue was booked -- as long as the expense was n't the acquisition of a depreciable asset . Some things your company would buy -- such as the computer in your example -- would not be fully deductible in the year the expense is incurred . <URL> expenses are deducted over time according to a schedule for the kind of property . The amount of depreciation expense you can claim for such property each year is known as <URL> . A qualified professional accountant can help you understand this . One last thing : You wrote " write off " . That is not the same as " deduct " . However , you are forgiven , because many people say " write off " when they actually mean " deduct " ( for tax purposes ) . " Write off " , rather , is a different accounting term , meaning where you mark down the value of an asset ( e.g. a bad loan that will never be repaid ) to zero ; in effect , you are recognizing it is now a worthless asset . There can be a tax benefit to a write-off , but what you are asking about are clearly expense deductions and not write-offs . They are not the same thing , and the next time you hear somebody using " write off " when they mean " deduction " , please correct them .
I think it depends on the bank rules , on both sides . Arguably , because of the " &amp; " , the bank where your room mate is going to deposit it might require you to be present as well . I 'm quite certain that both of you have to be present for cashing , but for depositing - check with the bank where it 's going to be deposited . It would be safe to have both signatures ( as you described ) , but it may happen that they 'll refuse to deposit it if it 's a non-joint account and only one is present . I would suggest calling and asking them . If you can have the landlord change it to " and/or " instead of " and " - it would definitely make your life easier .
It will be similar to what you have said -- the options price will adjust accordingly following a stock split - Here 's a good reference on different scenarios - <URL> also if you have time to read <URL>
It is considered additional income , so the 1 % is added to your other income , and then the tax is normally calculated . You can imagine it as getting a raise in that amount , paying your taxes on the higher salary , and then making the virtual ' payment ' in the original height to the car dealership . The net effect of this is a slightly increased tax rate on all your existing income , plus the full increased tax rate of the 1 % . Your net salary ( paycheck ) will be accordingly lower . It is still most of the time a good deal , as you have a car at hand for very low price . Only if it would have otherwise driven a very cheap car , and do n't value the upgrade at all , it might be borderline negative .
If you buy a call , that 's because you expect that the stock will go up . If it does not go up , then forget about buying more calls as your initial idea seems to be wrong . And I do n't think that buying a put to make up for the loss will work either , the only thing that is sure is that you will pay another premium ( on a stock that could stay where it is ) . Even if you are 100 % sure that the stock will go up again , do n't do anything , as John Maynard Keynes stated : " Markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent " . My idea is : wait until the expiration date . The good things about options is that you wo n't lose more than the premium that you paid for it and that until it reaches its maturity you can still make money if the market turns around . More generally , when you are purely speculating , adding to a position when it goes against you is called " averaging down " . I sincerely discourage you to do that : If the stocks goes in the wrong direction , that means that your initial idea was wrong in the first place ( or you were not right at the right moment ) . In my opinion , adding up to a wrong idea is not the right thing to do . When you are losing , just take your loss and do n't add up to your position based on your emotions . On the other hand , adding to your position more when the stock goes in your direction is called " pyramiding " and is , in my opinion , a better way of doing things ( you bought , you were right , let 's buy more ) . But at some point you will have to take your profits . There are plenty of other stocks on which you can try to invest and the market will still be here tomorrow , there will be other opportunities to make profits . Rushing things by constantly trying to have a position is not a good idea . Not doing anything is also a strategy .
This may or may not be a complete list but given that the Chicago Board Options Exchange is the largest US options exchange , you might want to check its <URL> . They also have a downloadable CSV .
You are permitted to withdraw the deposits from the Roth with no tax or penalty any time . To Dilip 's point , the Roth is a good place to keep the investment , and what you might consider is a ' self-directed ' account . This type of IRA or Roth IRA permits a choice of investments that are not typically handled by banks or brokers , including Real Estate and the type of Angel investing you seem to be considering . Note - the rules are tough , you need to be very careful to not be self-dealing , or dealing with certain related parties .
The National Alliance on Mental Illness ( NAMI ) provides a <URL> titled the " Special Needs Estate Planning Guidance System " that describes in some detail the process of setting up a special needs trust ( SNT ) . Their information may be helpful , and the organization might be able to answer any specific questions you have . I 'll try to provide a mostly-verbatim summary of the various parts of the guide so if the link to the guide changes , the information will still be preserved here . I 've added some notes where appropriate . Because your daughter is still young , I ca n't provide many highly specific life factors to consider , but the information below should give you a general outline of what to consider . General information As an essential component of a comprehensive care plan , the well designed Special Needs Trust ( SNT ) will , at the same time Protect public benefits - The Special Needs Trust puts a middle step between the money or resources , and the person with a disability . Assets in trust do not count as resources to the individual with special needs and thus preserves eligibility for public benefits such as SSI and Medicaid . Protect the quality of care - A well designed Special Needs Trust provides for vastly superior care options and opportunities for treatment and rehabilitation , housing , electronic equipment , computers , job training , vacations etc. . Supplemental items that will enhance dignity , productivity and comfort In your case , even though the beneficiary of the trust is still young , this may give you some general ideas about what areas the trust should cover . Finding an attorney As with any legal situation , finding an attorney is critical . The NAMI guide gives some brief suggestions to use when searching for someone to draft the trust 's documents . Look for education , certifications and memberships , e.g. Special Needs Alliance ( SNA ) ; National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys ( NAELA ) ; American College of Trust &amp; Estate Counsel ( ACTEC ) ; American Bar Association ( ABA ) ; and state bar associations . According to their website , the Special Needs Alliance provides <URL> for families looking for an attorney or simply hoping to learn more , so they may also be a good place to start . Time/experience in trust , estate , and disability practice Community Involvement Articles written ( commitment to educating the consumer evident ? ) Presentations made ( especially to peers ) Educational programs recently attended with respect to trust and estate law and disability issues . Is the attorney experienced in drafting Special Needs Trusts ? Has he/she made it an area of focus in his/her practice ? What is the attorney 's commitment to completing a comprehensive assessment of your family 's unique " special needs , " concerns and goals for your loved one with a disability ? Is the attorney up to date on any state-specific special rules the SSA ( Social Security Administration , Medicaid , or the Department of Mental Health might have for key aspects of Special Needs Trusts ? ( Distribution terms , required accounting , reports , notices , remainder beneficiary etc. ) In the initial consultation , do you get an overall sense of the attorney 's understanding of and empathy for the unique challenges families face in caring for a loved one who is disabled ? Some of these suggestions may appear more valid to you than others , but they 're all items for you to consider when finding a professional . A professional who meets the above criteria will likely be able to answer your question in greater detail . Selecting a Trustee As the NAMI states , a good Trustee is critical to a successful plan . They state that : ... if possible , the best choice would be a sibling or family member together with a corporate trustee to serve as co-trustees . The corporate trustee would have the primary oversight of the management , investing and accounting of the trust assets . The sibling or family member would provide the needed intimacy with the beneficiary 's needs and circumstances . Things to consider when selecting a trustee : Will the person ( s ) be responsive and attentive to the needs of the beneficiary ? Are there possible conflicts of interest ? ( such as siblings who are also trust remainder beneficiaries ) Is the prospective trustee capable of good financial management ? Any tax implications to be taken into account ? Can you afford the fees for professional management ? Can you afford to not have professional management ? The possibility the person selected could experience significant life changes , e.g. divorce , moving far away Should you make provisions for compensation ? Serving as a trustee can be a lot of work . Co-trustees , a corporate trustee with a family member to provide professional management balanced by someone loyal to and familiar with the beneficiary . Trustee successors - who will take over from the trustee if he/she dies , fails to fulfill duties , etc. ? Trust Protectors to oversee the trustee 's performance , and to
end question
start question
What does a well diversified self-managed investment portfolio look like ?
" Diversified " is relative . Alfred has all his money in Apple . He 's done very well over the last 10 years , but I think most investors would say that he 's taking an incredible risk by putting everything on one stock . Betty has stock in Apple , Microsoft , and Google . Compared to Alfred , she is diversified . Charlie looks at Betty and realizes that she is only investing in one particular industry . All the companies in an individual industry can have a downturn together , so he invests everything in an S&amp;P 500 index fund . David looks at Charlie and notes that he 's got everything in large , high-capitalization companies . Small-cap stocks are often where the growth happens , so he invests in a total stock market fund . Evelyn realizes that David has all his money tied up in one country , the United States . What about the rest of the world ? She invests in a global fund . Frank really likes Evelyn 's broad approach to equities , but he knows that some portion of fixed-income assets ( e.g. cash deposits , bonds ) can reduce portfolio volatility -- and may even enhance returns through periodic rebalancing . He does what Evelyn does , but also allocates some percentage of his portfolio to fixed income , and intends to maintain his target allocations . Being diversified enough depends on your individual goals and investing philosophy . There are some who would say that it is wrong to put all of your money in one fund , no matter what it is . Others would say that a sufficiently broad index fund is inherently diversified as-is .
It costs money for a mutual fund to accept your money . It does n't cost as much as it used to , but historically there has been , at a minimum , a modicum of record-keeping associated with it . As such , they will typically have a minimum amount of money they want you to add at a time . They do n't want to process 100 transfers of a nickel each ; that would be silly . So if you have a mutual fund with a " minimum initial investment " of $ 10,000 and a " minimum subsequent investment " of $ 100 , then that means that you can put in $ 10k to open it , and then deposit dollars in lots of 100 or more whenever you feel like it .
In simple terms applicable to all countries , Find the interest rate of fixed income products like Fixed Deposits , bonds etc. . Invest as much capital to produce an yearly income equal to the annual interest . Keep the remaining assets in shares and use the dividends to increase the capital of your income investment everytime your shares give you dividend . Let me explain with example . You have 5000 as retirement corpus . ( No assumption of currency ) If monthly expenses = 10 Yearly = 10 * 12 = 120 If fixed income products give 5 % returns , you need 100/5 = 20 times of first year expenses to get that much interest . 120 * 20 = 2400 . Call this as your " INCOME corpus " Put an equal amount in shares and wait for dividends . Call this your " GROWTH corpus " Total 2400 +2400 = 4800 Keep the 200 as emergency buffer or contribute 100 each in both above . Whenever you get dividends from Growth corpus , invest them back to Income Corpus to increase your future income . This strategy will keep protecting you from inflation without touching or eroding your capital . In simple terms , this is 50:50 approach but with a modification that you do not invest back in shares if they fall . You just wait for dividends but do not depend heavily on them . Hence risk is immaterial .
No . Not likely . You usually can not transfer your 401 ( k ) out of a company plan while you are still working there . Some companies do permit such transactions for those 55 and older , but only for your own deposits , not for the matching portion , if any . Either way , best to ask the admin for your company plan . If you were no longer with the company , you 'd be able to transfer the 401 ( k ) to your Solo 401 ( k ) if you wished , either directly , or stopping thru an IRA .
Great question ! A Yield Curve is a plot of the yields for different maturities of debt . This can be for any debt , but the most common used when discussing yield curves is the debt of the Federal Government . The yield curve is observed by its slope . A curve with a positive slope ( up and to the right ) or a steepening curve , i.e. one that 's becoming more positively sloped or less negatively sloped , may indicate several different situations . The Kansas City Federal Reserve has a <URL> that summarizes various economic theories about the yield curve , and even though it 's a bit dated , the theories are still valid . I 'll summarize the major points here . A positively sloped yield curve can indicate expectations of inflation in the future . The longer a security has before it matures , the more opportunities it has to be affected by changes in inflation , so if investors expect inflation to occur in the future , they may demand higher yields on longer-term securities to compensate them for the additional inflationary risk . A steepening yield curve may indicate that investors are increasing their expectations of future inflation . A positively sloped yield curve may also reflect expectations of deprecation in the dollar . The publication linked before states that depreciation of the dollar may have increased the perceived risk of future exchange rate changes and discouraged purchases of long-term Treasury securities by Japanese and other foreign investors , forcing the yields on these securities higher . Supply shocks , e.g. decreases in oil prices that lead to decreased production , may cause the yield curve to steepen because they affect short-term inflation expectations significantly more than long-term inflation . For example , a decrease in oil prices may decrease short-term inflation expectations , so short-term nominal interest rates decline . Investors usually assume that long-term inflation is governed more by fundamental macroeconomic factors than short-term factors like commodity price swings , so this price shock may lead short-term yields to decrease but leave long-term relatively unaffected , thus steepening the yield curve . Even if inflation expectations remain unchanged , the yield curve can still change . The supply of and demand for money affects the " required real rate , " i.e. the price of credit , loans , etc. . The supply comes from private savings , money coming from abroad , and growth in the money supply , while demand comes from private investors and the government . The paper summarizes the effects on real rates by saying Lower private saving , declines in the real money supply , and reduced capital inflows decrease the supply of funds and raise the required real rate . A larger government deficit and stronger private investment raise the required real rate by increasing the demand for funds . The upward pressure on future real interest rates contributes to the yield curve 's positive slope , and a steepening yield curve could indicate an increasing government deficit , declines in private savings , or reduced capital coming in from abroad ( for example , because of a recession in Europe that reduces their demand for US imports ) . Monetary policy may also affect the yield curve . For example an easing of monetary policy when is economy is already producing near its capacity ... would initially expand the real money supply , lowering required short-term real interest rates . With long-term real interest rates unchanged , the yield curve would steepen . Lower interest rates in turn would stimulate domestic spending , putting upward pressure on prices . This upward price pressure would probably increase expected inflation , and as the first bullet point describes , this can cause long-term nominal interest rates to rise . The combination of the decline in short-term rates and the rise in long-term rates steepens the yield curve . Similarly , an inverted yield curve or a positively sloped yield curve that is becoming less steep may indicate the reverse of some or all of the above situations . For example , a rise in oil prices may increase expectations of short-term inflation , so investors demand higher interest rates on short-term debt . Because long-term inflation expectations are governed more by fundamental macroeconomic factors than short-term swings in commodity prices , long-term expectations may not rise nearly as much as short term expectations , which leads to a yield curve that is becoming less steep or even negatively sloped . Forecasting based on the curve slope is not an exact science , just one of many indicators used . Note - Yield Curve was not yet defined here and was key to my answer for <URL> So I took the liberty of ask/answer .
Unfortunately for you credit referencing agencies do n't just record whether you take credit or not but also whether a " hard pull " has been performed on your credit details . A hard pull means that the details were pulled from the agency as part of an application for credit . Because lenders do n't ( have to ) inform credit agencies whether they have accepted you for credit or not a hard pull that is not connected to a loan agreement could be because of a denial of credit or because you refused the offer ; it is impossible to tell . A large number of hard pulls on your credit rating in a short period can look like you were desperate for credit and being turned down by a lot of lenders so looking further afield . The good news is that the effect of a hard pull on your credit rating is pretty much zero after six months , to quote <URL> ( paywalled site ) : Having no recent searches ( applications for credit ) shows that you are not credit hungry and that your existing credit may be sufficient for your needs . The more searches that you have in a 6 month period , the more likely a lender will consider you to be higher risk . note that it mentions " searches " and does not limit it to actually taking the loan . Edit : ( from comments for clarity ) Remember that the ratings agencies know all of your loans and the respective dates and issuers so they can just match the hard pull to the loan . Your credit rating is a mixture of the number of hard pulls , your outstanding credit and a few other factors .
<URL> their credit card customers free monthly <URL> . The FICO score is the credit score that is used by most lenders for determining credit worthiness . The score is obtained using a secret proprietary formula . <URL> , <URL> , and other free credit monitoring websites offer <URL> , a competitor of FICO that uses a different formula . Your credit report with each of the three credit bureaus ( Experian , Equifax , and TransUnion ) contain your credit history data . This data can be used as inputs for any credit score formula . Both Bank of America and CreditSesame are using your TransUnion report as inputs for their score formulas , but since the formulas are different , they yield different scores .
In the case of WhatsApp they probably use revenue from the apple affiliate program , this is how it works : After you sign up and are accepted you can generate links . When someone clicks on the link a cookie is installed on their iDevice , this cookie attributes all purchaces generated to the owner of the affiliate link for the life of the cookie ( 24 hours ) . The owner will then recive a 7 % commission on those purchaces .
I think most financial planners or advisors would allocate zero to a gold-only fund . That 's probably the mainstream view . Metals investments have a lot of issues , more elaboration here : <URL> Also consider that metals ( and commodities , despite a recent drop ) are on a big run-up and lots of random people are saying they 're the thing to get in on . Usually this is a sign that you might want to wait a bit or at least buy gradually . The more mainstream way to go might be a commodities fund or all-asset fund . Some funds you could look at ( just examples , not recommendations ) might include several PIMCO funds including their commodity real return and all-asset ; Hussman Strategic Total Return ; diversified commodities index ETFs ; stuff like that has a lot of the theoretical benefits of gold but is n't as dependent on gold specifically . Another idea for you might be international bonds ( or stocks ) , if you feel US currency in particular is at risk . Oh , and REITs often come up as an inflation-resistant asset class . I personally use diversified funds rather than gold specifically , fwiw , mostly for the same reason I 'd buy a fund instead of individual stocks . 10 % - ish is probably about right to put into this kind of stuff , depending on your overall portfolio and goals . Pure commodities should probably be less than funds with some bonds , stocks , or REITs , because in principle commodities only track inflation over time , they do n't make money . The only way you make money on them is rebalancing out of them some when there 's a run up and back in when they 're down . So a portfolio with mostly commodities would suck long term . Some people feel gold 's virtue is tangibility rather than being a piece of paper , in an apocalypse-ish scenario , but if making that argument I think you need physical gold in your basement , not an ETF . Plus I 'd argue for guns , ammo , and food over gold in that scenario . :-)
For US stocks it 's a bit of a gamble . Many actively managed funds underperform the market indexes , but some of them outperform in many years . With an index you will get average results . With an active manager you " might " do better than average . So you can view active management as a higher risk , potentially higher reward investment approach . On the other hand , if you want to diversify some of your investments into international stocks , bonds , junk bonds , and real estate ( REITs ) active management is highly likely to be better than indexing . For these specialized areas specialized knowledge and research is needed .
If you 're paying class 1 NI via PAYE then there is no benefit in voluntarily paying class 2 as well . Your class 1 contributions get you everything that class 2 does ( and more - class 1 builds up an entitlement to contributions-based JSA which class 2 does not ) . The warning on the SA form is aimed at people whose only or main income comes from self-employment .
The term self-directed generally refers to RRSP accounts where the account holder has not only the ability to determine a basic investment asset mix ( such as can be accomplished even with a limited selection of mutual funds ) but , more specifically , the self-directed account holder has a much wider choice of financial instruments beyond mutual funds , GICs , and/or cash savings . A self-directed RRSP generally permits the account holder to also invest or trade directly in financial instruments such as : bonds ( including governments and corporates ) , public company stocks/shares/unit trusts listed on a stock exchange , exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ) , purchasing call and put options , writing covered call options , ... or even holding a mortgage on a property . Those kinds of instruments are not typically available in a non-self-directed mutual fund or bank RRSP . Typical mutual fund or bank RRSPs offer you only their choice of products -- often with higher fees attached . Related resources : <URL> <URL>
Sounds like you are starting an <URL> . What you need is an investment club partnership agreement . Have a look at <URL> . EDIT Based on OP 's comments , it appears that the OP will be acting as an adviser/manager of a private investment fund . If the fund is not open to the public , it may still be treated as a type of investment club , but different rules -- including possibly having to register with the SEC -- may apply ( quoted from the first link ) : If the adviser is compensated for providing the advice regarding the club 's investments , the adviser may need to register according to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 . Also , if one person selects investments for the club , that person may have to register as an investment adviser . In general , a person who has $ 25 million or more in assets under management is required to register with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 . A person managing less than $ 25 million may be required to register under the securities laws of the state or states in which the adviser transacts business .
<URL> has this bottom line on it : Are share buybacks good or bad ? As is so often the case in finance , the question may not have a definitive answer . If a stock is undervalued and a buyback truly represents the best possible investment for a company , the buyback - and its effects - can be viewed as a positive sign for shareholders . Watch out , however , if a company is merely using buybacks to prop up ratios , provide short-term relief to an ailing stock price or to get out from under excessive dilution . Read more : <URL> What is the reason that a company like AAPL is buying back its own shares ? Offsetting dilution would be my main thought here as many employees may exercise options putting more stock out there that the company buys back stock to balance things . Does it have too much cash and it does n't know what to do with it ? No as it could do dividends if it wanted to give it back to investors . So it is returning the cash back to investors ? Not quite . While some investors may get cash from Apple , I 'd suspect most shareholders are n't likely to see cash unless they are selling their shares so I would n't say yes to this without qualification . At the same time , the treasury shares Apple has can be used to give options to employees or be used in acquisitions for a couple of other purposes .
You setup a self-directed solo 401k by paying a one time fee for a company to setup a trust , name you the sole trustee , and file it with the IRS . None of these companies offer TPA because it opens them up to profit leaching liability . After you have your trust setup , you can open a brokerage account or several with any of the big names you want ( Vanguard , Fidelity , Ameritrade , etc ) , or just use the money to flip houses , do P2P lending , whatever , the world is your investment oyster . If the company has recurring fees you need to ask what is going on because if they are n't offering TPA services , then what the heck could they be charging you for ? I did see one company , I think it was IRA Financial Group , that had the option of having a CPA do TPA for you for a recurring fee , but I would pass on that . The IRS administration requirements are typically just the 5500-EZ that you have to file as a hard copy by July 31 if your investments are worth more than $ 250k , on December 31 . Yes , you have to get the actual form from the IRS , write on it with a pen and mail it to them every year , barbaric . You can either have your accountant do it or do it yourself . If you 're below $ 250k just google solo 401k rule change two or three times a year and do n't try to launder money . If anything , the rules will loosen with time , I do n't imagine the Republican Congress cracking down on small business owners any time soon .
It means a 3 % return on the value of the stock . If a stock has a $ 10 share price , the dividend would be $ 0.30 . Normally though , the dividends are announced as a fixed amount per share , because the share price fluctuates . If a percentage were announced , then the final cost would not be known as the share priced could change radically before the dividend date .
<URL> . New bank has to entice depositors to part with their cash , so offers a higher rate because with no history they are considered a risky bet . Then reading this article I see it mentions this very important statement The savings rates are also ' expected profit ' as it is a Shariah compliant provider . This means it does n't technically offer interest -- instead , it invests funds ' ethically ' to earn profits which it then ' shares ' with savers . Now it makes me very wary and my firm advice is to read the T&amp;C s so as to be quite clear on what they will give and what they will not .
In a well-managed company , employees bring more dollars to their employers than the employers pay the employees ( salary and benefits ) . Employees trade potential reward for security ( a regular paycheck ) . Employers take on the risk of needing to meet payroll and profit from the company 's income , minus expenses . The potential rewards are much higher as an employer ( self or otherwise ) , so the ones that do make it do quite well . But this is also consistent with your other statement that the reverse is not true ; the risk of self-employment is high , and many self-employed people do n't become millionaires .
If you owe a tax of more than or equal to 10K , then you need pay advance tax to avoid interest &amp; penalty . From the Income Tax India website <URL> Liability for payment of advance tax arises where the amount of tax payable by the assessee for the year is Rs .10,000 / - or more . The due dates for various instalments of advance tax are given below ; - On or before 15th September Amount not less than 30 % of the previous year of such advance tax payable . - On or before 15th December Amount not less than 60 % of the previous year of such advance tax payable . - On or before 15th March of Entire balance amount of the previous year such advance tax payable So if you have income other than Salary , say gains from stocks , or interest that result in more than 10K as profits , you should be paying advance tax . Of late the Government is capturing the tax data electronically and hence its easier to compute and generate such requests . There was also an error in the year 2009 with some processing where individuals who had only salary income received errenous notice , however this is rectified . Edit : Incase you fail to make payment as per the prescribed schedule , for any delay in payment there is a penalty , ie if you do not make the 30 % by 15th Sept and make it on 15 December , you will be charged an interest . If you do not make the payment by 30th March , you would be charged a penalty . As in your example exactly 10 % tax is outstanding as of 31st March , you are liable to pay a penalty . Even if you had paid a rupee more , then you would not have had to pay the penalty .
Inflation is good for the economy primarily because it is an incentive to invest . If inflation is occurring , then keeping your holdings in cash is a net loser ; 5 % inflation means that in a year , your $ 100 is now worth $ 95.24 ( 1/1 .05 ) , so unless you 're getting really good interest , that 's a bad thing . On the other hand , if you invested that $ 100 in a business , you can outgain inflation more easily since inflation should drive the business 's profits . Deflation ( negative inflation ) , on the other hand , is bad for investing because it encourages holding cash . If deflation of 5 % occurs , then you can get a 5 % ROI by simply holding onto twenty dollar bills ; why would you invest in a business that was in a deflationary economy ( and thus would likely earn less money ) ? Mild inflation also increases flexibility in the economy , because businesses make a little more money ( in terms of denominated money ) ; that allows them more flexibility in expansion . Salaries for some also go up , meaning that spending goes up , and often with more flexibility in how those salaries are spent ; inflation does n't hit all sectors exactly the same , so often this leaves significant portions of the middle class with more money to spend ( and thus driving economic growth ) . More than salary growth , though , inflation seems to drive job creation . From the New York Times , <URL> quotes <URL> which shows that job creation tends to be more significant than rising salaries during periods of low inflation ( ie , what we 're talking about here ) . Salary increases will come here largely from job seeking rather than raises , because businesses do n't tend to cut wages and thus are reticent to significantly raise salaries ; they 'd rather just hire more people , and then cut jobs when the economy weakens ( or inflation drops ) . This is even more true in low wage jobs , such as minimum wage positions , where wages can not be cut but salary increases have little real effect on job retention ; it 's easier to change the number of hours for PT employees , or the number of PT/FT employees . Deflation , on the other hand , leads to decreased flexibility , layoffs , and lower consumer spending . While it sounds good to say ' hey , prices are going down ! ' to your average consumer , you have to keep in mind that those prices are what keep the businesses going that drive our economy and pay your salary ( either directly or indirectly ) . If your employer started making 5 % less per year , do you think they 'd keep you employed ? Maybe not , and at the bottom ( service industries , fast food restaurants , grocers , etc. ) there would be significant cutbacks if deflation hit them . I would note that 5 % inflation is probably a bit high ; most economists like 2 % to 3 % , and the Federal Reserve has said that <URL> . They 're mostly concerned with avoiding deflation , as that 's a big risk to the economy ; the advantages of mild inflation are relatively minor , compared to the damages of deflation , and tend to be more correlations ( you get mild inflation in a good economy , as much or more than you need mild inflation for a good economy ) . Most important , probably , is consistent inflation . Consumers and businesses can act rationally if the inflation rate is relatively stable and predictable . When inflation jumps or drops , it changes the potential outcomes for choices made by investors , consumers , and businesses , meaning choices they made in the past are now suboptimal ; if the inflation rate is jumping around ( 1 % one year , 4 % another , -1 % the next ) investors , businesses , and consumers will be relatively conservative in their choices , which leads to a bad economy .
end question
start question
Is Prepaid Legal a legitimate company ?
Prepaid Legal is a <URL> . They 've been around for years . So it 's not a fly-by-night operation . I do n't know enough to comment on whether their kind of MLM is legal .
I believe it 's not only legal , but correct and required . A 1099 is how a business reports payments to others , and they 're required by the IRS to send them for payments of $ 600 or more ( for miscalleneous payments like this ) . The payment is an expense to the landlord and income to you , and the 1099 is how that 's documented ( although note that if they do n't send you a 1099 , it 's still income to you and you still need to report it as such ) . It 's similar to getting a 1099-INT for interest payments or a 1099-DIV for dividend payments . You 'll get a 1099-MISC for a miscellaneous payment . If you were an employee they 'd send you a W-2 , not a 1099 .
Prepaid Legal is a <URL> . They 've been around for years . So it 's not a fly-by-night operation . I do n't know enough to comment on whether their kind of MLM is legal .
The shareholders elect the board of directors who in turn appoint a CEO . The CEO is responsible for the overall running of the company . To answer your specific questions : The CEO ( typically ) has the power to make all decisions for the company . It 's customary for very large decisions to first seek the approval of the board , but that differs between companies and the type of decisions . Yes , a CEO can " control " a public company . That 's exactly the point of having a CEO . Yes , Steve Jobs could make decisions that are harmful to the well-being of the company . However , it 's the responsibility of the board of directors to keep his decisions and behavior in check . They will remove him from his position if they feel he could be a danger to the company .
You may want to start a company for a few reasons , the main one would be liability , you do n't want your friend to drop a weight on a foot and sue you for millions taking your house away . You 'd need to pay taxes on the income , that 's after you pay all your expenses , bills , mortgage interest , insurance premiums ( ! ) , equipment depreciation . So it 's going to be a lot less than you collect from your friends . Whether you incorporate or not you have to pay taxes on your income . If it 's $ 200/year IRS may not notice that , if it 's $ 20K a month it would be very hard to hide . If you pay your friends more than some amount ( check the laws ) you 'd need to tell IRS about it ( issue 1099-misc ) , then your friends must pay taxes on that income .
This is usually a piece of information obtainable from the central/government bank of that country . Each country has its own laws , and each currency release has its own laws . I 've lived in a place that changed bills to coins , and the bills can still be returned to any bank for replacement , but are not considered " legal tender " in the sense that you can go and buy stuff with them ( anyone who is not a bank has a right not to accept them as money ) . Same country had a currency change 10 years prior ( not just bills , the whole currency including the currency name ) , and the old bills are no longer valid and can not be exchanged ( I have some left ) . So to answer your question directly - central bank of that country ( if it exists , if it does n't the currency is probably just a collectible item ) . BTW : To the best of my knowledge , all the European currencies that were changed to Euro 's are no longer valid and can no longer be exchanged .
It depends on how much equity you have in your home . Scenario 1 : Your home is worth $ 100K , and your current mortgage is for $ 100K ( or more which means you are underwater . ) In this case you ca n't get a 2nd mortgage because : It 's not legal to use the same collateral ( e.g. some or all of your house ) for multiple loans without all parties knowing about it . If you let the parties know , then whoever is not first in line to receive the collateral certainly wo n't agree to it , since the collateral is not yours to use . ( The existing mortgage would already have legal claim to it . ) You could n't do it even if you tried because any real bank will do a title search to discover if you are trying to do this , before giving you any money . That being said , you can use different portions of equity in your home as collateral for multiple mortgages , as long as none of the equity overlaps , but you may need permission from the primary mortgage bank first , for example : Scenario 2 : Your home is worth $ 100K , and your current mortgage is for $ 80K meaning you currently have $ 20K in equity . It is possible to get a 2nd mortgage or home equity line of credit for $ 20K . As a side note , if your loan agent is telling you to use a different bank , it sounds like she is trying ( and willing ) to do something shady . If you are in Scenario 1 , I 'd find a new agent .
In the US , the IRS requires employers to withhold taxes on severance pay . This is explained in <URL> : Situation 6 . Severance pay is supplemental wages because it is not a payment for services in the current payroll period but a payment made upon or after termination of employment for an employment relationship that has terminated . Thus , although the payments in this situation are for a fixed determinable amount for 51 weeks , they are not fixed payments for the current payroll period and thus are not regular wages . Because the severance pay is supplemental wages , the usual rules for determining income tax withholding with respect to supplemental wages apply . S can use the aggregate procedure to determine withholding on the payments . Alternatively , if S has withheld income tax on regular wages paid to G in Year 1 , S can use optional flat rate withholding to determine the withholding with respect to the supplemental wage payments in Year 1 and Year 2 . This means the employer may either withhold 25 % flat , or may withhold by the usual method ( similar to your regular withholding ) . As of 2014 , severance pay was ruled to also require <URL> , as your normal wages have withheld from them .
Matt explains the study numbers in <URL> , but those are the valuation of the brand , not the value of the company or how " rich " the company is . Presuming that you 're asking the value of the company , the usual way for a publicly traded company to be valued is by the <URL> <URL> . Market capitalization is a fairly simple measure , basically the total value of all the shares of stock in that company . Number of Shares * Value of Shares = Market Cap You can find the market cap for any publicly traded company on any of the usual finance sites like <URL> or <URL> . If by rich you mean the total value of assets ( assets being all property , including cash , real property , equipment , and licenses ) a company owns , that information is included in a publicly traded company 's quarterly SEC filing and investor releases , but is n't usually listed on the popular finance sites . An example can be seen at <URL> ( the same information can be found for all companies on <URL> , the <URL> 's search tool ) . If you open the most recent <URL> ( quarterly filing ) , and go to page 8 , you can see that they have $ 33B + in assets , and a high level breakdown of those . Note that the numbers are given in millions of dollars For a privately held company this information may or may not be available and you 'd have to track it down if it is available . I picked Duke Energy because it 's the first thing that popped into my mind . I have no affiliation with Duke , and I do n't directly own any of their stock .
Whether or not you have money in your account will not necessarily stop them withdrawing the money , and it certainly wo n't stop them attempting to withdraw the money . There are two possible scenarios when they attempt to withdraw the money ( as they surely will ) : The bank refuses the withdrawal : you still owe them the money , you may also owe additional late payment fees , the bank may also charge you for a refused payment . If you continue to refuse to pay they could sue you for it . The bank permits the withdrawal : they get their money , you may then owe fees or charges to the bank for the ( unauthorised ? ) overdraft . I think you are just lucky they have n't attempted the withdrawal yet . Put the necessary money into your account now if you possibly can , and consider this a slightly expensive lesson learned about following the Ts and Cs when cancelling services .
I do n't know personally , but a few minutes spent on Google seem to indicate that such transactions are considered cash advances . I found a thread at fatwallet which states that <URL> . If you want to research it yourself , I used the following search terms : . You could probably narrow down the search results by using as the query .
By law , material information has to be made available to the public at the same time . There are no restrictions on delivery once it 's out of the issuer 's hands . If you want faster delivery , yes , you must subscribe to PR wires . If you want HFT delivery , be prepared to pay even more , and this is still limited by physical proximity , so for the fastest speeds , you 'll have to balance your physical location against the exchanges ' physical locations . This industry is now extremely competitive with rapidly diminishing profit margins .
No . That 's pretty unlikely . Card issuers typically base your rate on your credit score . Paying down debt reduces your percent of available credit used , and improves your score until you are in the 1-20 % range . That 's optimum . To this issuer , you are one of a million customers , there 's no emotion in this , just numbers to them . For what it 's worth , if a card issuer raises your rate , you are permitted to " not accept " the rate , stop using the card for new charges , and pay at the current rate . Of course this does n't apply to zero interest deals , only to increases to your regular rate .
It 's a fake ! Do n't fall for it or you 'll regret it ! This is a classic example of what is called a phishing attack . A phishing attack is a form of social engineering or pretexting where you are led to believe through an official-looking email that the notice is from a legitimate source when , in fact , it is not . Cyber-criminals and online organized crime try to use phishing attacks to trick you into revealing your credit card number , your bank account information , your Social Security Number ( SSN , United States ) or Social Insurance Number ( SIN , Canada ) or any other kind of personal information . Your bank , credit card company , or other financial account provider should never ask you in an email to visit their site through a link provided in the email . Never trust a hyperlink provided in an email -- odds are good it leads to a fake site created by criminals ! When in doubt about such a message , do n't click anything . Contact your financial service provider by phone to inquire .
While this is a localized question that will change over time , nerdwallet.com tracks what they think are the best <URL> The deal with the prepaid cards is they shift around all the time , with who is the best at any given time being something you must shop for . So , here are the ways to shop for a prepaid card Look for the fees Monthly fees Transactions fees ATM Fees Fees to purchase the card Fess to reload the value on the card Balance inquiry fees Bill pay fees Inactivity fees ( which should tell you this is n't a great deal ) Look for limits ATM withdrawal limits Daily transaction limits Which ATMs you can use How to you put money on the card Will it accept direct deposits ? Is there a fee for that ? Other Gotchas Can you use it where you want to use it ? Will the card report to credit reporting agencies ?
does it still count as a capital gain or loss ? Yes . Is it essentially treated like you sold the stock at the price of the buy-out ? Yes . Do you still get a 1099-B from your broker ? Yes .
It 's a fake ! Do n't fall for it or you 'll regret it ! This is another classic example of what is called a phishing attack . <URL> . The email in question was not from MasterCard , your bank , or your credit card company . A phishing attack is a form of social engineering or pretexting where you are led to believe through an official-looking email that the notice is from a legitimate source when , in fact , it is not . Cyber-criminals and online organized crime try to use phishing attacks to trick you into revealing your credit card number , your bank account information , your Social Security Number ( SSN , United States ) or Social Insurance Number ( SIN , Canada ) or any other kind of personal information . Your bank , credit card company , or other financial account provider should never ask you in an email to visit their site through a link provided in the email . Never trust a hyperlink provided in an email -- odds are good it leads to a fake site created by criminals ! When in doubt about such a message , do n't click anything . Contact your financial service provider by phone to inquire , using the phone number on your card or on a previous bill . Do n't call any phone numbers in the message .
In Singapore , this is sufficiently common that the Singapore IRS has a page on <URL> dedicated to informing employers of how to properly pay this under <URL> . Specifically , tax paid by employer is taxable income for the employee ( as it 's really the employee 's responsibility ) , so they must pay tax for that tax . A tax-on-tax is computed for the tax paid , which also would be owed by the employer if they were paying the full tax rate for the employee . As a clarification , this is not the employer being truly responsible for the employee 's income ; this is the employer compensating the employee further to offset their taxable income . This is effectively a fringe benefit , although it may be particularly useful in countries where either tax evasion is common ( and thus an employer must compete with employers willing to pay under the table ) or where employers are competing with others in nearby countries with lower tax rates . It is not the same thing as the employer making your income nontaxable , though , and has implications for your tax filing . Significantly , it is likely that if you have additional income beyond income from that employer , it is likely to be taxed at your highest tax rate , as the employer will likely calculate the tax due based on their income being the only income you have in that year . * Edit based on emphasis in question : I 'm not from Singapore nor am I a lawyer , but based on my reading of the IRAS website , it looks like you do not have to file if you have no other source of income , because they have a <URL> which takes income information from your employer automatically and generates a tax bill , which presumably would be fully paid in your case . This only aplies if you have no other sources of income , however ; you still have to file if you have other sources of income since your employer would not know about them . If you are eligible for this service , you should get a <URL> informing you as such . They also have a tool to check your filing status on their website .
The prices are not correlated by the exchanges , but there a host of arbitragers out there who will immediately pounce if the prices drift out of line by the slightest fraction , buying on the cheaper exchange while simultaneously selling on the more expensive exchange , and in practice this keeps the prices the same .
Does the market automatically assume a rescheduled call means something major , like the auditors are n't signing the financials , is going on ? Yes . ( If so , why ? ) People - including investors - are emotional . And suspicious . And paranoid . Financial discussions tend to make everything sound like a cold , clinical science , and to some degree that is true . But you should never look past something much more simple - people are people . And of course , once all is said and done , acts like a reschedule often do mean something is up . So you 've now got a nice mix of fact and emotion . Does it mean that 95 % of the shares ' holders are insiders who all decided to sell when they learned about whatever is causing the delay in the con call ? No . See Littleadv 's answer .
end question
start question
How to evaluate stocks ? e.g. Whether some stock is cheap or expensive ?
If you are looking for numerical metrics I think the following are popular : Price/Earnings ( P/E ) - You mentioned this very popular one in your question . There are different P/E ratios - forward ( essentially an estimate of future earnings by management ) , trailing , etc. . I think of the P/E as a quick way to grade a company 's income statement ( i.e : How much does the stock cost verusus the amount of earnings being generated on a per share basis ? ) . Some caution must be taken when looking at the P/E ratio . Earnings can be " massaged " by the company . Revenue can be moved between quarters , assets can be depreciated at different rates , residual value of assets can be adjusted , etc. . Knowing this , the P/E ratio alone does n't help me determine whether or not a stock is cheap . In general , I think an affordable stock is one whose P/E is under 15 . Price/Book - I look at the Price/Book as a quick way to grade a company 's balance sheet . The book value of a company is the amount of cash that would be left if everything the company owned was sold and all debts paid ( i.e. the company 's net worth ) . The cash is then divided amoung the outstanding shares and the Price/Book can be computed . If a company had a price/book under 1.0 then theoretically you could purchase the stock , the company could be liquidated , and you would end up with more money then what you paid for the stock . This ratio attempts to answer : " How much does the stock cost based on the net worth of the company ? " Again , this ratio can be " massaged " by the company . Asset values have to be estimated based on current market values ( think about trying to determine how much a company 's building is worth ) unless , of course , mark-to-market is <URL> . This involves some estimating . Again , I do n't use this value alone in determing whether or not a stock is cheap . I consider a price/book value under 10 a good number . Cash - I look at growth in the cash balance of a company as a way to grade a company 's cash flow statement . Is the cash account growing or not ? As they say , " Cash is King " . This is one measurement that can not be " massaged " which is why I like it . The P/E and Price/Book can be " tuned " but in the end the company can not hide a shrinking cash balance . Return Ratios - Return on Equity is a measure of the amount of earnings being generated for a given amount of equity ( ROE = earnings / ( assets - liabilities ) ) . This attempts to measure how effective the company is at generating earnings with a given amount of equity . There is also Return on Assets which measures earnings returns based on the company 's assets . I tend to think an ROE over 15 % is a good number . These measurements rely on a company accurately reporting its financial condition . Remember , in the US companies are allowed to <URL> if approved by the government so be careful . There are <URL> who simply do n't follow the rules and report whatever numbers they like without penalty . There are many others . These are just a few of the more popular ones . There are many other considerations to take into account as other posters have pointed out .
This is usually a piece of information obtainable from the central/government bank of that country . Each country has its own laws , and each currency release has its own laws . I 've lived in a place that changed bills to coins , and the bills can still be returned to any bank for replacement , but are not considered " legal tender " in the sense that you can go and buy stuff with them ( anyone who is not a bank has a right not to accept them as money ) . Same country had a currency change 10 years prior ( not just bills , the whole currency including the currency name ) , and the old bills are no longer valid and can not be exchanged ( I have some left ) . So to answer your question directly - central bank of that country ( if it exists , if it does n't the currency is probably just a collectible item ) . BTW : To the best of my knowledge , all the European currencies that were changed to Euro 's are no longer valid and can no longer be exchanged .
Look for options with distant expiration dates and volatile underlying stocks .
Prices and volatility for a commodity are driven by changes in supply and demand , more often the latter , since supplies are usually " fixed " in the short term . Oil is a particularly volatile commodity because it is genuinely critical to so many things , transportation , manufacturing , electric power , etc. . Because of this fact , it has numerous parties ( " agents , " in economic language ) monitoring available supplies . This includes whole governments , that sometimes build up strategic petroleum reserves . Because of the involvement of so many parties ( actual and potential ) , trading in oil is a " crowded " trade , which produces volatility . Imagine the back and forths of a bunch of people at a party in a crowded room .
Sounds like you need a cash account . Suggest you do as follows : Add an account to represent cash on hand -- let 's call it " Cash " . Record a deposit of the full $ 750 to " Cash " . Record the payment of the vendor 's invoice from " Cash " . Record the deposit/transfer from " Cash " to your checking account . This better models what actually happened in real life , rather than trying to adapt things into a system that lacks a cash account .
Is the TFSA contribution limit per year $ 5000/person ? The annual TFSA dollar limit for 2009 , 2010 , 2011 and 2012 was $ 5,000 . For the years 2013 , 2014 and 2015 it was $ 5,500 . How are unused contributions carried over ? Any unused TFSA contribution room from the previous year and any withdrawals made from the TFSA in the previous year are carried over . If last year I contributed only $ 3000 , then this year , would I have $ 7000 contribution room available ? You would have $ 2500 left over from last year and an extra $ 5500 this year which equals to $ 8000 assuming you maxed your TFSA in years previous and including 2013 . Also , if this year I withdraw $ 5000 , does that affect my TFSA contribution room ? You will get back the contribution room next year . Next year you will be able to contribute $ 5500 ( 2016 ) + $ 5000 ( withdrawn this year ) + $ x ( remaining contribution room ) . You can go <URL> for more information .
Paypal has an account called " <URL> " for those who have a lot of transaction under $ 10 with " better " commission structure , 5 % +5 c per transaction ( rather than 2.9 % + 30c with regular merchant accounts )
This is a gross simplification as there are a few different ways to do this . The principle overall is the same though . To short a stock , you borrow X shares from a third party and sell them at the current price . You now owe the lender X shares but have the proceeds from the sale . If the share price falls you can buy back those shares at the new lower price , return them to the lender and pocket the difference . The risk comes when the share price goes the other way , you now owe the lender the new value of the shares , so have to find some way to cover the difference . This happened a <URL> when Porsche made a fortune buying shares in Volkswagen from short sellers , and the price unexpectedly rose .
The price of a stock contains the incorporated price rise expectations in the future . So a smaller company has a greater chances of increasing its earning potential than a large cap . You do n't expect Microsoft to grow on year on year like when it was just starting up . Hence people see greater potential to grow in a small company and bet on it . Eventually the smaller company 's P/E would also stop being so high , as it grows bigger and consolidates . Effectively the numerator increases . While the denominator is a different phenomena . A smaller company , you would assume , in a growth phase has lesser earnings , which pushes up the P/E again . For an already existing behemoth the earnings are more or less consistent , unless they come out with some super product which would increase their earning and their stock prices but not as much as a smaller stock . To put in perspective a $ 1 rise in a $ 5 stock is much bigger and noticeable than a $ 1 rise in a $ 50 stock .
Companies with existing borrowings ( where borrowings are on variable interest rates ) or in the case with fixed interest rates - companies that get new borrowings - would pay less interest on these borrowings , so their cost will go down and profits up , making them more attractive to investors . So , in general lower interest rates will make the share market a more attractive investment ( than some alternatives ) as investors are willing to take on more risk for potentially higher returns . This will usually result in the stock market rising as it is currently in the US . EDIT : The case for rising interest rates A central bank 's purpose when raising interest rates is to slow down an economy that is booming . As interest rates rise consumers will tighten up their spending and companies will thus have less revenue on top of higher costs for maintaining existing borrowing ( with variable rates ) or new borrowing ( with fixed rates ) . If rates are higher companies may also defer new borrowings to expand their business . This will eventually lead to lower profits and lower valuation for these companies . Another thing that happens is that as banks start increasing interest for saving accounts investors will look for safety where they can get a higher return ( than before ) without the risk of the stock market . With lowering profits and valuations , and investor 's money flowing out of shares and into the money market , so will company share prices drop ( although this may lag a bit with the share market still booming due to greed . But once the boom stops watchout for the crash ) .
I agree with the answer by @Michael that this number does n't exist . It 's hard to see what use it would have and it would be difficult to track . I 'm writing a separate answer because I also disagree with the premise of your question : Individual shares of stock have never to my knowledge had such a number . Your comment about numbers on stock certificates identifies the certificate document , which will generally represent multiple shares of stock . That number no more identifies a single share of stock than the serial number on a $ 10 bill identifies any one of the ten dollars it represents . Even at the " collective " unit of $ 10 , when the bill is eventually replaced with a new one , the new bill has a new number . No continuity .
Here 's another way that I look at it : Say you and me were 50-50 partners in a small business . Suppose we wanted to expand our business but that needed money . Someone ( let 's call him Warren ) has the money we need &amp; hence in return for the money we offer Warren an equal stake in the business . i.e. All three of us own 33 % stake now . For both you and me our stake reduced from 50 % that it was before Warren 's entry to only 33 % now . While that reduction in our share may seem at first sight a bad deal for us , we both agreed to give Warren his share consciously not out of altruism but because it made business sense to helps us expand . Ergo , what matters is not just your share of the pie but the size of the pie itself ! And hence dilution of stake can make sense under certain circumstances . Two small points : ( a ) This does n't in any way show the dilution must make sense . Only that it can sometimes make sense ( b ) Of course , in the case of a large corporation they do not need your personal approval for the dilution . But hey , neither do they ask you when they buy a new plant or start a new product .
My knee-jerk reaction was " no , they are not worth it " , but I took a little time to look up what some of the trusted names in consumer electronics reviews had to say about extended warranties/service contracts . A <URL> writer said that your decision should consider the price of the service contract relative to the price of the item you 're buying , as well as the amount of hassle you 're willing to endure , should something go wrong . <URL> believes that the warranties that come with your products are almost always enough , and they say that electronics and appliances are so well-built nowadays , the likelihood of you needing extra service before you upgrade are slim-to-none . And the folks over at <URL> offer the same maybe-yes-maybe-no advice as the cnet guys : depends on your appetite for risk and the options available to you . So I would suggest that the answer be " no " most of the time , but consider it anyway .
In general , a warrant is a security issued by a company allowing the holder to purchase a certain number of a particular class of shares at a certain price for a particular period of time . They differ from exchange traded options ( i.e. calls and puts ) in that they are issued by the company that issued the underlying shares that they allow you to purchase whereas calls and puts are generally written by other investors . The other big difference between options and warrants is that options are standardized . Any call or put you buy on a particular exchange has basically the same set of rules governing use . By contrast , a warrant may have all kinds of stipulations that must occur before you can execute , such as price events ( e.g. only if the stock hits a certain price ) or business events ( e.g. only if the company elects to defer payment on a bond issued at the same time as the warrant ) . Warrants are generally a bad choice for small and inexperienced investors since each warrant issue is different and you often need a lawyer or other qualified professional to fully understand all to possible outcomes .
I traded futures for a brief period in school using the BrokersXpress platform ( now part of OptionsXpress , which is in turn now part of Charles Schwab ) . They had a virtual trading platform , and apparently <URL> , and it was excellent . Since my main account was enabled for futures , this carried over to the virtual account , so I could trade a whole range of futures , options , stocks , etc. . I spoke with OptionsXpress , and you do n't need to fund your acount to use the virtual trading platform . However , they will cancel your account after an arbitrary period of time if you do n't log in every few days . According to their customer service , there is no inactivity fee on your main account if you do n't fund it and make no trades . I also used <URL> for a class and despite finding the occasional bug or website performance issue , it provided a good experience . I received a discount because I used it through an educational institution , and customer service was quite good ( probably for the same reason ) , but I do n't know if those same benefits would apply to an individual signing up for it . I signed up for <URL> about seven years ago when I was in secondary school , and it 's completely free . Unfortunately , you get what you pay for , and the interface was poorly designed and slow . Furthermore , at that time , there were no restrictions that limited the number of shares you could buy to the number of outstanding shares , so you could buy as many as you could afford , even if you exceeded the number that physically existed . While this is n't an issue for large companies , it meant you could earn a killing trading highly illiquid pink sheet stocks because you could purchase billions of shares of companies with only a few thousand shares actually outstanding . I do n't know if these issues have been corrected or not , but at the time , I and several other users took advantage of these oversights to rack up hundreds of trillions of dollars in a matter of days , so if you want a realistic simulation , this is n't it . Investopedia also has a <URL> that I 've heard positive things about , although I have n't used it personally .
If you 're looking for some formula , I do n't think one exists . People talk about this all the time and give conflicting advice . If there was a proven-accurate formula , they would n't be debating it . There are basically 3 reasons to do a home improvement project : ( a ) Correct a problem so that you prevent on-going damage to your home . For example , have a leaking roof patched or replaced , or exterminate termites . Such a job is worthwhile if the cost of fixing the problem is less than the cost of future damage . In the case of my termite and leaking roof examples , this is almost always worth doing . Lesser maintenance problems might be more debatable . Similarly , some improvements may reduce expenses . Like replacing an old furnace with a newer model may cut your heating bills . Here the question is : how long does it take to repay the investment , compared to other things you might invest your money in . Just to make up numbers : Suppose you find that a new furnace will save you $ 500 per year . If the new furnace costs $ 2000 , then it will take 4 years to pay for itself . I 'd consider that a good investment . If that same $ 2000 furnace will only cut your heating bills by $ 100 per year , then it will take 20 years to pay for itself . You 'd probably be better off putting the $ 2000 into the stock market and using the gains to help pay your heating bill . ( b ) Increase the resale value of your home . If you are paying someone else to do the work , the harsh reality here is : Almost no job will increase the resale value by more than the cost of getting the job done . I 've seen many articles over the years citing studies on this . I think most conclude that kitchen remodeling comes closet to paying for itself , and bathrooms come next . New windows are also up there . I do n't have studies to prove this , but my guesses would be : Replacing something that is basically nice with a different style will rarely pay for itself . Like , replacing oak cabinets with cherry cabinets . Replacing something that is in terrible shape with something decent is more likely to pay back than replacing something decent with something beautiful . Like if you have an old iron bathtub that 's rusting and falling apart , replacing it may pay off . If you have a 5-year-old bathtub that 's in good shape but is not premium , top of the line , replacing it with a premium bathtub will probably do very little for resale value . If you can do a lot of the work yourself , the story changes . Many home improvement jobs do n't require a lot of materials , but do require a lot of work . If you do the labor , you can often get the job done very cheaply , and it 's likely that the increase in resale value will be more than what you spend . For example , most of my house has hardwood floors . Lots of people like pretty hardwood floors . I just restained the floors in two rooms . It cost me , I do n't know , maybe $ 20 or $ 30 for stain and some brushes . I 'm sure if I tried to sell the house tomorrow I 'd get my twenty bucks back in higher sale value . Realtors often advise sellers to paint . Again , if you do it yourself , the cost of paint may be a hundred dollars , and it can increase the sale price of the house by thousands . Of course if you do the work yourself , you have to consider the value of your time . ( c ) To make your home more pleasant to live in . This is totally subjective . You have to make the decision on the same basis that you decide whether anything that is not essential to survival is worth buying . To some people , a bottle of fancy imported wine is worth thousands , even millions , of dollars . Others ca n't tell the difference between a $ 10,000 wine and a $ 15 wine . The thing to ask yourself is , How important is this home improvement to me , compared to other things I could do with the money ? Like , suppose you 're considering spending $ 20,000 remodeling your kitchen . What else could you do with $ 20,000 ? You could buy a car , go on an elaborate vacation , eat out several times a week for years , retire a little earlier , etc. . No one can tell you how much something is worth to you . Any given home improvement may involve a combination of these factors . Like say you 're considering that $ 20,000 kitchen remodeling . Say you somehow find out that this will increase the resale value by $ 15,000 . If the only reason you were considering it was to increase resale value , then it 's not worth it -- you 'd lose $ 5,000 . But if you also want the nicer kitchen , then it is fair to say , Okay , it will cost me $ 20,000 , but ultimately I 'll get $ 15,000 of that back . So in the long run it will only cost me $ 5,000 . Is having a nicer kitchen worth $ 5,000 to me ? Note , by the way , that resale value only matters if and when you sell the house . If you expect to stay in this house for 20 years , any improvements done are VERY long-term investments . If you live in it until you die , the resale value may matter to your heirs .
The stockholders of company A vote to approve or disapprove the buy out . That is the only control you have on the price : Vote to approve or disapprove . If the deal is approved then you get the money , or stock in B , or both , in accordance with the terms of the deal . It will arrive into your account automatically .
Outside of a tax sheltered IRA or 401 ( k ) type of account your transactions may trigger tax liability . However , transactions are not taxed immediately at the time of the transaction ; and up to a certain limits capital gains can be offset by capital losses which can mitigate your liability at tax time . Also , remember that dividend receipts are taxable income as well . As others have said , this has nothing to do with whether or not money has been moved out of the account .
No . A deposit to an IRA must be in cash . A conversion from traditional IRA to Roth can be " in kind " i.e. . As a stock transfer . Last , any withdrawals can also be in stock or funds . IRS Publication 590 , so important , it 's now in 2 sections <URL> and <URL> , addresses IRA issues such as this as well as most others . By the way - now on page 7 - " Contributions , except for rollover contributions , must be in cash . "
From a financial point of view , getting a 2-3 year old car with full service history ( and obviously in good condition and well looked after ) and driving it until it falls apart makes the most sense . That way , you avoid the steepest part of the depreciation curve ( ie , when you drive it off the lot ) and you should end up with something that 'll last you for a decade or longer if you keep up the maintenance . Either car - if bought new or used - will go wrong at some point , especially if they 're not looked after properly . Regular maintenance is one of the most important , if not the most important factor in keeping a vehicle reliable .
end question
start question
Can the shorting of S&P futures negatively affect the underlying index and constituent stocks ?
There is an arithmetically calculated value for the difference , or spread , between the futures contract price and the actual cash value of the underlying stocks ( in the appropriate weighting ) comprising the S&amp;P 500 . This spread is a function of current short term interest rates and the time remaining until the futures contract expires . Whenever the spread is at fair value , there is no benefit from owning the futures instead of the actual S&amp;P 500 stocks , or vice-versa . When the <URL> , by a large enough margin , then ... either stocks or futures will become more attractive than the other , and they [ traders in size ] will sell one and buy the other . The spread varies all day , because the futures contract and the actual S&amp;P 500 stocks trade independently of each other . The futures trade in Chicago at the CME ( Chicago Mercantile Exchange ) . The underlying S&amp;P 500 stocks trade on the NYSE in New York , a different marketplace . Supply and demand for ALL 500 stocks in the S&amp;P index determine the cash price of the S&amp;P 500 . Sometimes , there are short term discrepancies , which might seem to present an opportunity for arbitrage . When those discrepancies happen , and they can be due to many insignificant things e.g. the normal progression or " rolling over " of futures contract expiration dates , the spread can deviate from fair value . These differences are not large in magnitude , and the market quickly reacts removing any discount or premium . So there really is n't a chance for most investors to benefit from this sort of arbitrage . This is the formula for the fair value of the spread : where F = break even futures price S = spot index price i = interest rate ( expressed as a money market yield ) d = dividend rate ( expressed as a money market yield ) t = number of days from today 's spot value date to the value date of the futures contract . Something like <URL> presents more opportunity for mild arbitrage . To directly answer your question , no , shorting the S&amp;P futures wo n't move the underlying prices of the 500 stocks . The relationship goes in the other direction i.e. the price of the 500 stocks , with the exception of tiny variations like I described above , are what drive the price of the futures contract .
At a very high-level , the answer is yes , that 's a good idea . For money that you want to invest on the scale of decades , putting money into a broad , market-based fund has historically given the best returns . Something like the Vanguard S&amp;P 500 automatically gives you a diverse portfolio , with super low expenses . As it sounds like you understand , the near-term returns are volatile , and if you really think you might want this money in the next few years , then the stock market might not be the best choice . As a final note , as one of the comments mentioned , it makes sense to hold a broad , market-based fund for your IRA as well , if possible .
Yes . Depending on which way they are going this is known as a redemption or a creation . In fact , it 's not just the ETF company than can do this . There are other entities known as " authorized participants " who can do this at will . This is the reason that the ETF tracks the underlying basket . When it deviates , that creates an arbitrage opportunity for the authorized participants , which they will take once it reaches a level to cover their transactions costs .
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
Several things to do : Change your bank . $ 2 for a check ? Why ?? When shopping for a new bank : ask for a free checking account . College students can get free checking in almost any bank . At least the first box of checks will be free , which will give you enough checks for the next several years ( I 'm still not half done with the box I got from WaMu 5 years ago ) . Check out your neighborhood credit union . Most of them have free checking and free checks for students as well . If still no luck - check online check printing services , they 'll send you a box for less than $ 25 , that 's for sure . <URL> for example ( 1 box - $ 7 ) . Also , you can use banks ' bill-pay service for any check you write , if you know the address of the person , the amount and the sum a couple of days ahead of time . That should cover rent , and probably most of your other checks .
83 ( b ) election is for restricted stocks , not options , so my answer assumes exercise at vest/at grant ( early exercise ) . Will I have to pay tax on ( 2000 * 8 = $ 16000 ) Yes . Will it be a regular income tax or AMT or a short term capital gain ? You have no gain . You vested at $ 10 and sold at $ 10 , you got a wash . The $ 16K you mentioned earlier is the benefit you got from the company , which is not a gain but your salary and is taxed as such ( including FICA etc ) . Also , I read that 83B does not make sense for vested stocks Indeed . In the above case , can I file 83B for the unvested 1000 stocks ? No , you can only file 83 ( b ) election within 30 days from the grant . By not filing it , you ended up with $ 16K being taxed at vest time as your salary ( i.e. : at marginal rates ) . Had you filed 83 ( b ) election on time , you 'd pay the tax on your benefit ( the $ 2 per option , if you did n't have to buy them ) , but all the gains on vesting would be capital gains ( likely long term ) . That ship has sailed , for that particular grant . Since in your case you can exercise the options , it is not as bad as it could have been . Consider a case where you got 1000 options at $ 0.01 , they vested at $ 1000 , you exercised them to get the stocks and you could n't sell any ( not yet public , ca n't sell privately , etc ) . You 'd be taxed on $ 1M when you never actually received any cash income , and you 'd have to chip out $ 300K on taxes on income you never had . By the time you could sell , the stocks can fall , say to $ 100 , leaving you with hundreds of thousands of capital loss that you can not deduct , and hundreds of thousands of taxes owed which you have no money to pay . That led to a lot of problems for people during the 90 's . com bubble and the subsequent crash .
Cart 's answer is basically correct , but I 'd like to elaborate : A futures contract obligates both the buyer of a contract and the seller of a contract to conduct the underlying transaction ( settle ) at the agreed-upon future date and price written into the contract . Aside from settlement , the only other way either party can get out of the transaction is to initiate a closing transaction , which means : The party that sold the contract buys back another similar contract to close his position . The party that bought the contract can sell the contract on to somebody else . Whereas , an option contract provides the buyer of the option with the choice of completing the transaction . Because it 's a choice , the buyer can choose to walk away from the transaction if the option exercise price is not attractive relative to the underlying stock price at the date written into the contract . When an option buyer walks away , the option is said to have expired . However -- and this is the part I think needs elaboration -- the original seller ( writer ) of the option contract does n't have a choice . If a buyer chooses to exercise the option contract the seller wrote , the seller is obligated to conduct the transaction . In such a case , the seller 's option contract is said to have been assigned . Only if the buyer chooses not to exercise does the seller 's obligation go away . Before the option expires , the option seller can close their position by initiating a closing transaction . But , the seller ca n't simply walk away like the option buyer can .
You 'll own whatever fraction you bought . To own the company ( as in , boolean - yes or no ) you need to buy 100 % of the outstanding stock . RE controlling the company , in general the answer is yes - although the mechanism for this might not be so straight forward ( ie . you may have to appoint board members and may only be able to do so at pre-set intervals ) and there may be conditions in the company charter designed to stop this happening . Depending on your jurisdiction certain ownership percentages can also trigger the need to do certain things so you may not be able to just buy 50 % - in Australia when you reach 20 % ownership you have to launch a <URL> .
The penny/pink sheet stocks you tend to see promoted are the ones a ) with small public floats or , b ) they are thinly traded . This means that any appreciable change in buy/sell volume will have an outsized effect on the stock 's share price , even when the underlying fundamentals are not so great . Promoters are frequently paid based on how much they can move a stock 's price , but such moves are not long-lasting . They peter out when the trading volumes return to more normal ranges for the stock because all of the hype has died out . There are some small-cap NASDAQ stocks which can be susceptible to promotion for the same reason -- they have small floats and/or are thinly traded . Once someone figures out the best targets , they 'll accumulate a position and then start posting all kinds of " news " on the web in an effort to drum up interest so they can sell off their position into the buying that follows . The biggest problem with penny/pink sheet stocks is that they frequently fail to publish reliable financial statements , and their ownership is of a dubious nature . In the past , these types of stocks have been targeted by organized crime syndicates , which ran their own " pump and dump " operations as a way to make relatively easy money . This may still be true to some extent today . Be wary of investing in any publicly-traded firm that has to use promoters to drum up investor interest , because it can be a serious red flag . Even if it means missing out on a short-term opportunity , research the company before investing . Read its financials , understand how it has behaved through its trading history , learn about the products/services it is selling . Do your homework . Otherwise you are doing the investing equivalent of taking your money and lighting it on fire . Remember , there 's a good reason these companies are trading as penny/pink sheet stocks , and it generally has nothing to do with the notion ( the promoters will tell you ) that somehow the " market has missed out on this amazing opportunity . " Pump and dump schemes , which lie at the heart of almost all stock promotion , rely on convincing you , the investor , that you 're smart enough to see what others have n't . I hope this helps . Good luck !
S&amp;P does n't use a fixed schedule . I emailed Standard and Poor 's Rating Desk to ask , however , and they confirmed that : There is no set schedule for the updating of our Sovereign Credit Ratings . Furthermore , these ratings are reviewed at least once every 1-2 years , and the reports are updated whenever a review is completed . They also sent me a PDF with information on how they rate sovereign debt . I believe the actual PDF is only available to users that register ( their website says registration is free ) , but you can find a <URL> on Google . In the section titled " Process For Rating Government Issuers " , it says : For government issuers , Standard &amp; Poor 's rating process is typically initiated when the issuer or its representative requests a rating for a particular debt issue . ... Most sovereign issuers have rating agreements with us , but some sovereign ratings are classified as " unsolicited " because we do not have a rating agreement with the issuer . We continue to rate these sovereigns when we believe there is significant market interest in them and there is also sufficient public information of reliable quality to support our analysis and ongoing surveillance . The portion I emphasize probably explains why ratings were published more frequent during the height of various debt crises ; not only is the market more interested in credit ratings during such periods , but new information relevant to market conditions was continually coming to light in some cases . On their <URL> , S&amp;P states that their ratings for the UK are unsolicited . I asked for clarification on this and they responded that although there are n't any set dates for such reviews , they usually take place " once or twice a year . " Ratings are published once the review is completed , which according to the document linked above , " typically takes four to six weeks to complete , but can run longer or shorter . " Short answer : You can probably expect new ratings to be published about twice a year for the UK because it 's a sizable economy and major issuer of sovereign debt , but apart from that , S&amp;P does n't follow a set schedule .
Typically , preferred shares come with one or both different benefits - a disproportionate share of votes , say 10 votes per share vs the normal 1 , or a preferred dividend . The vote preference is great for the owner ( s ) looking to go public , but not lose control of the company . Say , I am a Walton ( of Walmart fame ) and when I went public , I sold 80 % of the ( 1000 share total ) company . But , in creating the share structure , 20 % of shares were assigned 10 votes each . 800 shares now trade with 800 votes , 200 shares have 10 votes each or 2000 votes . So , there are still the 1000 shares but 2800 votes . The 20 % of shares now have 2000/2800 or 71 % of the total votes . So , my shares are just less than half ownership , but over 78 % of votes . Preferred dividend is as simple as that , buy Stock A for ownership , or ( same company ) Stock A preferred shares which have ownership and $ 1/yr dividend . Edited to show a bit more math . I use a simple example to call out a total 1000 shares . The percentages would be the same for a million or billion shares if 20 % were a 10 vote preferred .
ETFs are traded as stocks , and you can buy any amount . The minimum amount limitation is for initial purchases from SPDR itself , which is not what you 're going to do . The direct purchase from SPDR is for financial institutions that buy ETFs in chunks of 100000 units and then sell them on secondary market , which is where you 're buying .
Short answer : Yes , profits and losses from stocks , options , and futures can be combined with each other for tax purposes . But different tax forms will need to be filled out . Long answer : For stocks , you would report your profits/losses on <URL> . This is mentioned in the <URL> : Line 1 Enter all sales and exchanges of capital assets , including stocks For options ( those that are not Section 1256 contracts ) , you would report your profits/losses on Form 8949 . This is mentioned in the <URL> : Gain or Loss From Options Report on Form 8949 gain or loss from the closing or expiration of an option that is not a section 1256 contract but is a capital asset in your hands For futures ( and options that are Section 1256 contracts ) , you would report your profits/losses on <URL> ( Gains and Losses From Section 1256 Contracts and Straddles ) . According to that form , Section 1256 contracts include futures contracts and certain types of options : A section 1256 contract is any :  Regulated futures contract ,  Foreign currency contract ,  Nonequity option ,  Dealer equity option , or  Dealer securities futures contract . So for stocks , options , and futures transactions , you will be filling out Forms 8949 and 6781 . Then you will put the totals from those forms onto <URL> . As you can see from Schedule D , short-term profits/losses from Form 8949 are reported on lines 1b , 2 , and 3 , and profits/losses from Form 6781 are reported on line 4 . On line 7 , those totals are combined . If you have long-term profits/losses from Form 8949 , they are reported on lines 8b , 9 , and 10 , and added up in line 15 . Then lines 7 and 15 are combined in line 16 , which is used to fill out Form 1040 . So yes , profits/losses ( both short-term and long-term ) from stocks , options , and futures can be combined with each other .
<URL> is a well known rating service that measures the financial stability of Insurance companies and other financial providers . They issue a score that works kind of like a corporate credit score for each company using the following system . Secure A + + , A + ( Superior ) B , B - ( Fair ) A , A - ( Excellent ) C++ , C + ( Marginal ) B + + , B + ( Good ) Vulnerable C , C - ( Weak ) D ( Poor ) E ( Under Regulatory Supervision ) F ( In Liquidation ) S ( Suspended ) In most cases , there really is no good reason to get insurance from a company with less than an A + + rating , at least according to financial guru Clark Howard . It is worth mentioning that I do n't think this scoring system accounts for how hard it is to file a claim or whether they tend to reject them unfairly . It mostly tells you how likely they think the company is likely to be ABLE to pay claims based on how financially stable they are . Note : They require registration to see the info , but it is free as far as I know .
The All Ords Index consists of the 500 largest companies by market capitalisation listed on the Australia Stock Exchange . Each stock in the All Ords . Index is given a weighting based on its market capitalisation . As the price of the stocks within the All Ords . Index change , so does the points on the index itself . The Index is more sensitive to changes in the larger capitalised stocks due to their larger weighting in the Index . Example : If a company has a weighting of 10 % and its price goes up by 10 % , and all other stocks in the Index do n't go up or down , then this will cause the All Ords Index to go up by 1 % ( 10 % of 10 % ) .
Context is key here . Futures do n't really have to do with a time in the future in this context . Futures are a capital market ( futures market ) , just like Stocks are a market ( stock market ) . Both capital markets have the ability to affect each other . Up until 30 years ago there was a separate use for the futures market , but in the days since they are MOSTLY used for stock derivatives ( financial futures are the most widely traded contracts since 1980 , hugely eclipsing the commodity futures that the market was designed for . ) So there is overlap and one affect the other , I 'm not going to go into too much detail here but basically the futures market trades 24 hours a day , 6.5 days of the week and the stock market trades 8-12 hours a day , 5 days a week . So when the stock market closes , the futures market is still running will react and effect the broad stock market . Hope that gets you started in your research
There still is some buying and selling to do in a passively-managed fund . The stocks might pay dividends . If the fund manager did n't reinvest these dividends , the fund would begin to accumulate a cash position , which would cause it to stray from being an index fund . Stocks come and go from an index as well ; if the fund is to maintain a composition that matches a particular index , this must be taken into account as well . The role of the manager is to ensure that the fund maintains the composition that it was intended to replicate . It does n't involve as much " stock picking " that active managers do . The manager has less leeway as to what s/he buys and sells , but there still is work involved .
Home equity loan is a kind of a mortgage loan . So you 're basically asking " what 's better : mortgage or mortgage ? " . Home equity loan is usually taken as a second mortgage on the house , while you 're still paying the initial one , but accumulated some equity in the property . In the scenario you 're describing , there 's no " second mortgage " , there 's only one mortgage . You can call it " The wonderful glorious bestest ever mortgage " or you can call it " home equity mortgage " , and it would make no difference to the essence . Look at the numbers , and decide which terms are better , not which name sounds nicer to you .
If you 're simply a futures speculator , then yes , it does seem like gambling . If you 're a farmer producing a few thousand bushels of wheat , futures can be a mechanism for you to hedge against certain kinds of market risk . Same if you 're running a heating oil company , etc. . I just read somewhere that the bad spring weather in South Dakota has prevented farmers from getting corn planted -- nothing is in the ground yet . This is " objective data " from which you might infer that this year 's corn harvest could be late and/or smaller than normal . So maybe if you 're a buyer for General Mills , you use corn futures to control your costs . In this case you 'd have some idea based on experience what to expect for the price of corn , what your production line requires for input , how much you can charge for finished product , etc. . These all factor in to the price you 'd be willing to pay for corn futures .
United States For press releases about economic data , the Bureau of Economic Analysis <URL> is helpful . Depending on the series , you could also look at the Bureau of Labor Statistics <URL> . For time series of both historical and present data , the St. Louis Federal Reserve maintains a database such data , including numerous measures of GDP , called <URL> . They list nearly <URL> series related to GDP alone . FRED is extremely useful because it allows you to make graphs that indicate areas of recession , like this : On the series ' <URL> , there 's a bold link on the left side to download the data . If you simply need the most recent data , it 's listed below the graph on that page . If you 're interested in a more in-depth analysis , you can use the Bureau of Economic Analysis as well , specifically the <URL> , which are most of the numbers that feed into the calculation of GDP . FRED also archives some of these data . Both FRED and the BEA compile data on numerous other economic benchmarks as well . Other general sources for a wide range of announcements are the <URL> , <URL> , and the <URL> economic calendars . These provide the dates of many economic announcements , e.g. existing home sales , durable orders , crude inventories , etc. . Yahoo provides links to the raw data where available ; Bloomberg and the WSJ provide links to their article where appropriate . This is a great way to learn about various announcements and how they affect the markets ; for example , the <URL> durable orders announcement recently pushed markets down a few points . Europe For Europe , look at <URL> . On the left side of the page , they list links to common data , including <URL> . They list the latest releases on the home page that I previously linked to . Global sources For the sake of keeping this question short , I 'm lumping the rest of the world into this paragraph . Data for many other countries is maintained by their governments or central banks in a similar fashion . The World Bank 's <URL> also has relevant data like Gross National Income ( GNI ) , which <URL> to GDP , but it 's another ( less common ) macroeconomic indicator . You can also look at the economic calendar on <URL> or <URL> , which list events for the US , Europe , Australasia , and some Latin American countries . If you 're only interested in the US , the Bloomberg or Yahoo calendars may have a higher signal-to-noise ratio , but if you 're interested in following how global markets like currency markets respond to new information , a global economic calendar is a must . Dailyfx.com also has a global <URL> that , according to them , is specifically geared towards events that affect the forex market . Governments/Central Banks As I said , governments and central banks compile a lot of this data , so to make searching easier , here are a few links to statistical agencies and central banks for major countries . I compiled this list a while ago on my personal machine , so although I think all the links are accurate , leave a comment if something is n't quite right . Statistics <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> Central banks <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL>
end question
start question
Is a divorce buy-out of a house a taxable event ?
The transfer of property between spouses , or between ex-spouses incident to divorce , is not generally a taxable event . The controlling section is <URL> . If the divorce agreement includes cash for transfer of the house , then it 's not likely to be taxable . This rule would not apply , however , if your ex-wife is a nonresident alien ( and thus the property would skip tax when it left the US tax-free ) .
A mutual fund itself generally is n't taxed on its income or gains . To avoid taxes , each year a mutual fund has to pay out and pass through to its shareholders most of its net interest , dividends , and capital gains . You as the shareholder are taxed on your share of these items . If you review the annual reports for your funds , you will see that part of each years distribution is net investment income , primarily interest and dividends it receives , and the remainder is net realized gain . Here is an example : <URL> In the example linked , for the year ended 12/31/2014 , your fund distributed $ 3.49 per share of which $ 3.15 was net realized gain .
Insurance on something that you could replace out of your own pocket is almost always not worth it . If you have the discipline to put $ 1,000 in a savings account , and only use that to replace the phone , you 'll be ahead , plus you 'll also get to pocket the interest .
Pros Being able to buy a house with less than 10 % down . Specifically , as little as 3.5 % . Maximum debt-to-income allowed in 41 % , which may or may not be better than what you can get at a bank . Cons Paying Mortgage insurance out the wazoo . Nobody thinks about it this way , but FHA loans are actually quite expensive because of this . You 'll pay two Mortgage insurances : 1 % one time fee at closing 1.15 % per year ongoing Plus , it 's harder to get out of down the road that regular PMI . With regular PMI , you can stop paying it when your loan to value drops below 80 % . With FHA , you a ) must have been paying for at least 5 years , and b ) it 's 78 % loan to value where " value " is the initial appraised value at closing , NOT the current value . In other words , the equity you get from your home rising in value does not count , whereas it does with regular bank PMI . I 've calculated that if you do n't make extra payments , you 'll be paying PMI for about 14 years . Note that for all practical purposes , you 'd have to get a interest rate of less than 4.85 % for your effective interest rate ( interest + pmi ) to drop below 6 % . That 's not counting the effect of that additional 1 % up front .
Wine is often invested , as is whisky and some other spirits And fortified wines that have particular vintages , such as port . You need to be particular about which ones to invest in though . Top vintages of wine and port can rocket in value , to make the big profits you need to buy the new vintage before everyone realises it is going to be a top year and sell it some years later when it is approaching its peak . This is obviously quite tricky to do . It is fairly common to buy a share in a particular batch of whisky ( proper Scottish single malt ) , then after 12-18 years when it is matured you can take your share in bottles or cash .
It is considered additional income , so the 1 % is added to your other income , and then the tax is normally calculated . You can imagine it as getting a raise in that amount , paying your taxes on the higher salary , and then making the virtual ' payment ' in the original height to the car dealership . The net effect of this is a slightly increased tax rate on all your existing income , plus the full increased tax rate of the 1 % . Your net salary ( paycheck ) will be accordingly lower . It is still most of the time a good deal , as you have a car at hand for very low price . Only if it would have otherwise driven a very cheap car , and do n't value the upgrade at all , it might be borderline negative .
There are several areas that need to be considered . Taxes : If you settle late in the year you might not have enough deductions for interest and taxes to itemize this year . If you do n't normally itemize then delaying charitable contributions until early the next year will allow you to maximize the benefits . Moving . If the new house is in other state you can avoid having to file in two states if the switch takes place after mid-December and before mid-January . They ignore these small windows of time when doing partial year returns . General Advice Frequently the government has programs that change based on the date . Many times it takes place at the end of the year , but not always . The recent federal first time buyer programs had mid-year dates . In some states their first time buyer programs might have dates in sync with their fiscal year . Do n't forget to look at it from the view of the seller . If they are trying a short sale , completing it before the end of the year will be very important to them .
I would estimate the total costs as somewhere from # 1,000 to # 3,000 . Stamp duty is indeed <URL> . It 's 1 % of the total house price in the range # 125,000 to # 250,000 . There was a temporary exemption for a while for first-time buyers , defined as never having owned a house before . That 's ended now , though . You need a <URL> when buying - usual cost is somewhere between a few hundred pounds and a couple of thousand , depending on how thorough it is . Generally the more thorough surveys are appropriate for older houses . You might also want specialist reports on things like the electric wiring and the plumbing . You need a solicitor or licensed conveyancer to handle the legal aspects , and there are also a <URL> associated with those legal aspects . Typical total cost is # 500 - # 1000 . There might be a fee associated with getting a mortgage , but it depends entirely on the deal you get and should generally just be considered as part of the costs of the loan rather than the house purchase itself .
No , unless the guest is your spouse or dependent . From the <URL> : If you itemize your deductions for a taxable year on Form 1040 , Schedule A ( PDF ) , Itemized Deductions , you may be able to deduct expenses you paid that year for medical and dental care for yourself , your spouse , and your dependents .
In the US , the IRS requires employers to withhold taxes on severance pay . This is explained in <URL> : Situation 6 . Severance pay is supplemental wages because it is not a payment for services in the current payroll period but a payment made upon or after termination of employment for an employment relationship that has terminated . Thus , although the payments in this situation are for a fixed determinable amount for 51 weeks , they are not fixed payments for the current payroll period and thus are not regular wages . Because the severance pay is supplemental wages , the usual rules for determining income tax withholding with respect to supplemental wages apply . S can use the aggregate procedure to determine withholding on the payments . Alternatively , if S has withheld income tax on regular wages paid to G in Year 1 , S can use optional flat rate withholding to determine the withholding with respect to the supplemental wage payments in Year 1 and Year 2 . This means the employer may either withhold 25 % flat , or may withhold by the usual method ( similar to your regular withholding ) . As of 2014 , severance pay was ruled to also require <URL> , as your normal wages have withheld from them .
From strictly a gross revenue point of view , the parking spot is going to yield a higher rate ( 5.4 % ) versus a 3 % savings account , assuming you have it rented all year . Your break-even point ( not considering other expenses ) is 7-8 months of rent per year . So , what are things to consider ? Here 's a few to start with . Does location give the parking spot a potential for appreciation of rent or value as economic conditions change ? What is demand like ? Will you be able to rent it consistently ? My neighbor rents a garage to college faculty on a semester basis , and it is often difficult to get tenants in the summertime . What are the carrying costs associated with the spot ? Insurance , property tax , business district fees , etc. . What are your liquidity requirements ? Conveying real property is more time consuming than liquidating savings . This relates to the location too : you can sell a spot in a business district or high-density neighborhood quickly . Does anything about the location limit downside risk ? e.g. stable generators of parking demand like a commuter train station , government office , large apartment , etc. . The parking spot is a nice investment in that you get a decent return , and the potential for appreciation . The savings account/CD will give you a fixed return with no risk . To support your decision , make sure you understand all of the costs and understand all of the downside risk . If you 're 50 and this is alot of money to you , be conservative . If you 're 25 and have a good job , you can afford to chase the yield .
When you have a credit freeze , or security freeze , in place with the credit bureaus , this restricts access to your credit report . However , it does not completely prevent all access . Some situations where your credit information is still available , even with a security freeze in place are : Your existing creditors ( and debt collectors acting on their behalf ) still have access to your report . Government agencies can get the report if they have a court order , subpoena , or search warrant . Limited information is still available to potential creditors for " pre-screened " offers . When a company obtains information about you this way ( which is normally done in large groups of people ) , it appears as an inquiry on your credit report . This is most likely what has happened to you . The third one is confusing . You would think that a security freeze would prevent this , but no . In order to prevent pre-screened offer companies from obtaining any information about you , you need to opt-out separately , which you can do online at <URL> * . To answer the second part of your question , I 'm not aware of a way to erase your credit report completely . When you take out a loan , one of the things you agree to is the creditor 's right to add to your credit report . However , closed accounts drop off your credit report after 10 years , so if you wait long enough you 'll have an empty report . More information from the FTC : <URL> <URL> * Note : When you opt out of the prescreen offers online , the opting out is only valid for 5 years ( for your convenience , of course ) . If you want to make it permanent , opt out online , then fill out a " Permanent Opt-Out Election " form , and mail it in .
No , a loss on the sale of a primary residence is not tax deductible ( just as the gains are not taxable , up to a limit ) See here - <URL> Specifically , on page 5 : Loss on sale . If the amount realized is less than the adjusted basis , the difference is a loss . A loss on the sale of your main home can not be deducted .
If you have good credit , most banks should be comfortable giving you a loan that you can clearly afford for only 10 % down . If you put less than 20 % down , you 'll almost certainly have to pay for PMI ( Private Mortgage Insurance ) . This will be rolled into your regularly monthly payments . Once you 've paid enough of your mortgage off that you have 20 % equity , you 'll be able to have PMI removed . If you only pay your minimum payments , PMI will not go away for several years , but if you put extra money toward principal , you can get rid of it sooner , or possibly ask your bank to re-appraise your house if you feel it has appreciated enough or you have done some improvements that raise your equity above 20 % . Note that taking it off early is typically subject to a " seasoning period " of a couple of years , during which you can not have PMI removed from your loan . Also remember that there are a lot of costs associated with buying a house ( closing costs ) . You can ask that the seller contribute to these in your offer ( in exchange for a slightly higher price ) . It 's the same for them , and you keep a bit more of your savings . Typically , this is 3-5 % of the price , but can only be applied to your closing costs ( you do n't get cash , you just do n't write as big of a check to the bank for your down payment , tax escrow , etc. ) Edit : I 'm actually in this situation myself . Had an offer accepted on a home for $ 150,000 with 3 % back ( $ 4500 ) . I 'm putting 10 % down , am locked in at 3.990 % , and will be paying about $ 77 every month in PMI . My plan is to start aggressively paying down principal starting in about a year , such that I 'll have 20 % in equity by Q3 2014 , at which point I can get rid of PMI . Without doing that , I 'd be paying PMI well into 2017 .
It 's not a reason to buy a home , but it is a nice plum that in effect subsidizes your loan in the early years when you pay alot of interest . EDIT : Depending on the market that you 're in , things like mortgage interest , taxes and insurance are already priced into your rent . Renting lets you avoid the downside risks associated with owning property -- but you also lose the potential upside . The buy/rent decision is based on the following : Your life . ( When you 're 23 , a house means you 're " tied down " . When you 're 33 , it 's " stability " ) Your income/financial condition . The market ( for both rentals and purchases ) The market is a huge factor here . I live in a small city ( Albany , NY ) with a very tight rental market . Renting a 2 bedroom apartment costs like $ 1,300-1 ,600 and is difficult to find . But a nice 3-bedroom house in a great neighborhood goes for $ 150-170k in the city and $ 180-200k in the burbs . Obviously if you live in the Bay Area , where an empty lot in the hood goes for $ 750k , ymmv .
I would look at the bank website for any monthly statement that would specify the last four digits . It may also have been included in any email correspondence from the bank when the card was reported missing , or when they sent you the card originally , or if you changed the password on the card . Many banking institutions also send a copy of any email notices as a message to your online account . Of course since you are going back 3 years + years they may be aged out of the system . Another source is statements from another company where the card was used to make a payment . This could be a utility bill , store purchase , or government payment . They normally include the last 4 digits so you can identify the card used to make the payment .
I suspect you will need to consult with a tax professional on this one . In New York you would need to continue to file returns even if you did no business there until the partnership is dissolved . But I have no idea if Cali has anything rules like that . I would suspect since the partnership is on going the answer is no . Even though you plan no further business in Cali the potential exists that you could return there ( even if only in theory ) .
Is there an option to dispute this record online since I have never lived in Ohio state ? Start with getting a US-licensed CPA/EA in India , or a CPA/EA working in Ohio , contacting them on your behalf and getting more details . Why did they put the lien ? They probably think you earned money in the State/while resident of the State , and did n't pay taxes . Why would they think that ? Could there be any chance that this was put by mistake ? I still find it hard to believe that the state authorities took my credit card address as a proof of residence . Obviously , unless you did n't tell us something in your question , this is some kind of mistake . But mistake can be not theirs - someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to steal your identity . Someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to file a fraudulent tax return and got refunds they were not supposed to get If there is no option to dispute , what is the worst that can happen if I do n't pay it and enter the US in 2020 ? If you do n't do anything , someone else 's mistake will become your mistake . Your credit will be ruined , the statute of limitations to dispute the assessment will have passed and the State will attempt to collect on you . The statute of limitations on collections depends on the State laws , but it is much longer than the statute of limitations on assessments , so while you may not be able to argue you do n't owe the dept by 2020 - the State will probably be able to garnish your wages and freeze your bank accounts . Deal with this , ASAP .
If all the property is going up and down at the same rate , it 's probably a bit of a wash . However , there are markets ( e.g. the Front Range of Colorado , where I live ) , where property at different price levels and locations has performed very differently . For a place to live , I think it 's most useful to look at housing as a consumption decision , like buying a car , rather than an investment decision , like buying art ( since it is similarly illiquid ) . Consider what you need and want ( features , location ) , how important the " own vs rent " tradeoffs are to you ( including the risk of losing your equity ) , and what you can comfortably afford . Then do n't worry so much about price trends . This , it seems to me , is the lesson of the recent housing bust .
The regulators ( in the past , at least ) and banks distinguish demand-deposit ( checking ) accounts from savings accounts . Checking accounts are without such limits , but savings accounts are subject to withdrawals-per-month limitations . The overall effect of this is to slow the speed with which money flows through the savings account , thus essentially making the money remain on deposit for a longer time . That 's exactly why generally savings accounts pay more interest than checking accounts .
end question
start question
What are the tax results of a 401k to Roth IRA rollover ?
<URL> covers this . Rollovers to Roth IRAs . You can roll over distributions directly from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) to a Roth IRA . You must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) that you would have had to include in income if you had not rolled them over into a Roth IRA . However , special rules apply for any amounts rolled over in 2010 . See How to treat 2010 Roth IRA rollovers , later . You do not include in gross income any part of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is a return of contributions to the plan that were taxable to you when paid . In addition , the 10 % tax on early distributions does not apply . Any amount rolled over into a Roth IRA is subject to the same rules for converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA . For more information , see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1 of Publication 590 . How to report . Enter the total amount of the distribution before income tax or deductions were withheld on Form 1040 , line 16a ; Form 1040A , line 12a ; or Form 1040NR , line 17a . This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R . From this amount , subtract any contributions ( usually shown in box 5 of Form 1099-R ) that were taxable to you when made . Enter the remaining amount , even if zero , on Form 1040 , line 16b ; Form 1040A , line 12b ; or Form 1040NR , line 17b . The 1099R should come from the organization that had the original 401K , only they would know what would go in each box on the form 1099-R .
With these income levels you can not deduct any IRA contribution . I.e. : you can not save pre-tax , as you want . But you still can contribute to IRA ( as a non-deductible contribution ) , and using the " <URL> " transfer the contribution to Roth ( you are probably over the limit to be able to contribute to Roth directly ) . For pre-tax contributions - max out your 401k .
No , sorry . A change of 401 ( k ) administrator is not an out , otherwise many would flee a bad plan . I 'd suggest you only deposit up to the match , but use an IRA if you 'd like to save more . A plan with high fees can easily negate the tax benefits and then some .
You can make the rollover at a later time without a problem . If you are rolling from a 401k to a Roth IRA , the timing will affect your taxes . If you are rolling from a 401k to a Traditional IRA , also called a Rollover IRA in this case , you can do it at any time . The only exception would be if you have less than $ 5000 vested in the 401k they can force you to take a distribution from the plan . From experience , not all plans enforce this provision , but they are not forced to keep your 401k open unless you have at least $ 5000 . Update : I found out some additional information recently that I was n't aware of . Apparently you once the money is in a Rollover IRA , it can be converted into a Roth IRA at any later point without incurring a distribution penalty ( of course , you still have to pay that taxes at the point of conversion ) . There is no time limit for the conversion either .
I would not recommend borrowing your 401 ( k ) money to buy a house for two reasons : When you borrow money from your 401 ( k ) , it is no longer invested . Yes , you pay yourself interest , but you miss out on the investment gains for the life of the loan . If you leave your job , the loan is due in full shortly thereafter . If you do not pay it back , you are hit with taxes and penalties . If I were you , I would roll it over into an IRA for the reasons you mentioned .
You will owe tax on the amount . The tax is not withheld in direct rollover , you 'll get a tax bill next April . You can rollover the non-Roth portion into a regular IRA , and convert to Roth when it is convenient to you ( i.e. : when the tax hit will be minimal ) , or in " installments " - converting only part each year .
Like JoeTaxpayer said , I do n't know of any difference between the backdoor and a regular Roth IRA contribution besides the issue with existing pre-tax IRA money . So if it is your practice to contribute at the beginning of the year ( good for you , most people wait until the last minute ) , then doing a backdoor seems like the safe choice . Some people have speculated that , hypothetically , the IRS could use the " step transaction doctrine " to treat it as a single direct contribution to a Roth IRA ( which then would be disallowed and cause you a penalty until you take it out ) , but I have never heard of this happening to anyone . As for the paperwork , you just need to fill out one extra form at tax time , Form 8606 ( you need to complete two parts of it , one for the non-deductible contribution , and one for the conversion ) . It is pretty straightforward . ( Although I 've found that it is a pain to do it in tax software . ) Another option would be for you to contribute to a Roth IRA now , but when you discover that you 're over the limit at the end of the year , re-characterize it as a Traditional contribution and then convert it back to Roth . But this way is not good because then there is a long time between the Traditional contribution and the Roth conversion , and earnings during this time will be taxed at conversion .
Specifically on the subject of maxing out your 401k , there are several downsides : The employer match usually only applies to the first 6 % . Some employers offer no match at all . You listed the match as a pro , but I think it should be pointed out that you can usually get this benefit without maxing out your plan . The investment options are limited . Usually there is at least one fund available from all the common investment classes , but these may not be your preferred funds if you were able to choose for yourself . Fees can be very high . If you are working for a small to medium size company , the fees for each fund will often be higher than for the same funds in a plan offered by a large company . Fees are usually related to the dollar amount of assets under management . Each person has a different tax situation , so if you are single and making 6 figures , you might still be in the 25 % bracket even after maxing out your 401k , but the same person filing jointly with a spouse that makes less could get down to the 15 % bracket with a smaller contribution . I meet my retirement savings goals without maxing out the 401k . As long as the amount is above the employer match amount , my second priority is to funnel as much money as possible in to my IRA ( because I get lower fees and better investment options from Vanguard ) .
William - You need to go to a local branch right now . I know few brokers that will guarantee a same day transaction of this type . I tried to read your question a few times , and am stuck . I believe I understand Traditional IRAs , Roth IRAs , and the rules of conversion pretty well . It sounds to me like you want to have income in 2010 for one transaction , and over the 11-12 tax years for another . A recharacterization should n't be part of this . Recharacterizing takes you back to a traditional IRA from a Roth conversion . But if there 's something you actually need done , today is the last day , and direct dialog with the broker is probably best . If you edit your question for clarity , I 'll edit my response . Edit - Taking the income in 2010 was a choice , take in 10 or split over 11 and 12 . The only way to take over all three years would have been to convert or deposit in different accounts . Recharacterizing does n't apply in this scenario . For future readers - part of this discussion surrounds a one-time chance to convert from one IRA type to another and defer that income over the next two tax years . It 's an important issue , but one that will not apply after this evening . Today is the final day for 2010 returns even with extension of 6 months .
Contributions are post-tax , so there 's no direct tax benefit to choosing a year . I just made a 2010 contribution today , and the institution 's form explicitly asks me if I want it on 2010 or 2011 . The primary advantage of backdating like this is being able to contribute 5k more over your lifetime than otherwise possible , under the timing constraints . While there may be a year in the future which you do n't contribute the max , contributing now lets you build up earnings tax free . For '10 vs ' 11 , you 're probably holding cash so it 's not a big deal , but over five years is a long time to hold cash or invest with tax penalty .
Your question is meaningless as it is , because you do n't tell us if you 're likely to be in a higher bracket when you retire , or lower . However , I would argue that neither would be as beneficial for you as a Solo 401K account , as the limits for 401K contributions are much higher than IRA ( Roth or not Roth ) . There are plenty of questions on the topic on the right side of the screen , under " Related " , check them out .
The funds often have a lower minimum for IRAs , or a lower minimum if you commit to a certain monthly deposit , say $ 200 per month .
You can do a trustee to trustee exchange . You will need to contact both companies to coordinate the paperwork . As long as both accounts are the same type ( traditional \ Roth ) you are fine . You can also do a rollover where you have the check but there are some limitations and deadlines which are avoided by the trustee to trustee exchange . For example the IRS limits the number of rollovers to one a year . You can have multiple accounts of the same type . The annual contribution limits can be split across accounts . Rollovers and transfers are not part of annual contribution limits .
401k contributions are exempt from federal ( and sometimes state ) income tax . They are not exempt from FICA . So the answer to your question is FICA taxes are applied before making the contribution .
There may be a specific IRS-required deadline which might or might not have been violated in your case . but the main delay usually is from the employer 's end . The 401k administrator has to receive verification that employment has terminated before the funds can be distributed , and this can take some time because some people get two weeks salary in lieu of notice etc. . In your case , because of the merger/acquisition , there may be legal questions as to whether one employment was terminated and another begun ( and so you can roll over the funds in the old 401k into an IRA ) or whether the terms of the merger/acquisition are such that the assets of the old 401k plan get rolled over into the existing 401k plan of the new employer . In short , while " effectively let go from the old company and re-hired as new employees at the acquiring company " might be what it appears from the outside , legally it might be something different , and everybody is waiting till the lawyers figure out the details , and does not want to allow rollovers etc until the dust has settled .
You are not allowed to take a retirement account and move it into the beneficiary 's name , an inherited IRA is titled as " Deceased Name for the benefit of Beneficiary name " . Breaking the correct titling makes the entire account non-retirement and tax is due on the funds that were not yet taxed . If I am mistaken and titling remained correct , RMDs are not avoidable , they are taken based on your Wife 's life expectancy from a table in <URL> , and the divisor is reduced by one each year . Page 86 is " table 1 " and provides the divisor to use . For example , at age 50 , your wife 's divisor is 34.2 ( or 2.924 % ) . Each year it decrements by 1 , you do not go back to the table each year . It sounds like the seller 's recommendation bordered on misconduct , and the firm behind him can be made to release you from this and refund the likely high fees he took from you . Without more details , it 's tough to say . I wish you well . The only beneficiary that just takes possession into his/her own account is the surviving spouse . Others have to do what I first described .
No , the situation is not different , the roll-over rules are the same . It wo n't be taxable ( as opposed to traditional to Roth roll-over ) , but other than that it 's the same . Whether the 401k allows rolling over or not while you 're still employed - you have to check with the plan administrator ( ask your payroll/HR for details ) . Usually , the deferred compensation can not be rolled over out of the 401k while you 're still employed .
I do n't have all the information yet , but I 'm struggling with this one myself . If Obama 's deal w / the Republicans ( to extend the Bush era tax cuts for 2 more years ) does go through , then doing this conversion will be a bit cheaper , since your marginal tax rate on regular income ( which is , I believe , how the funds converted would be characterized ) would remain a few % lower for 2011 and 2012 ( vs the increase going into effect in 2011 without that deal ) . Forget about that for a second though . The big thing about doing the conversion in 2010 vs. 2011 is that if you do it in 2010 , you get to defer half of the taxable income the conversion creates by 1 year . So if you converted $ 50,000 in 2010 , instead of adding $ 50,000 taxable income all in one year , you spread that $ 50,000 ( evenly ) over 2 tax years . That 's a double win : * you do n't owe taxes on that 2nd half ( $ 25k ) of the funds converted for a whole extra year * spreading out that peak in income may allow me to avoid hitting a higher tax bracket , so I 'll pay less absolute taxes overall If you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket , that let 's you defer the payment of $ 6,250 ( 25 % of $ 25k taxable income deferred ) in taxes by one year . If you 're debt free and you had enough cash flow to cover that payment now , then at least you get to invest that money for another year . For others though , this deferral may be a deciding factor in whether they can afford to do the conversion at all , or allow them to pay down high interest debts ( almost always the highest-yielding investment decision a person can make ) . After Dec 31st of this year though , you have to take 100 % of the conversion as taxable income all in one year .
There is no tax reason limiting you from selling and buying investments , in Traditional IRAs , 401k plans , 403b plans etc as well as their Roth versions since you do n't have to pay capital gains on the transactions ( but ca n't deduct the losses either ) . But one thing to keep in mind is that ultimately when money is distributed from a non-Roth tax-deferred account , it comes out as pure income that is taxed at the then current rate without any of the special tax treatment that is afforded to capital gains , qualified dividends , etc. . Depending on where you are in your life cycle , it might be preferable to have a huge capital gain in a non-tax-deferred account and pay taxes ( at reduced rates ) on it right now rather than to receive the same gain in a non-Roth tax-deferred account and pay taxes on it as simple income when you take it out . For Roth accounts , you will have paid taxes up front when the money went in , and withdrawals are tax-free so it is better to have the huge gain in the Roth rather than outside the Roth .
Pre-nuptial agreements are typically used to protect assets that you have before a marriage in case of divorce . If you do n't have a lot of assets to protect , then there 's not much point . If you do have a lot of assets , then it might be worth having such an agreement , especially in the case of a second marriage where both spouses have kids from before , and they want to be very clear about what the new spouse gets vs. what the kids get . Relationship-wise , bringing up the topic of a pre-nup can be touchy , because the other person can feel like you do n't trust them , or that you do n't expect the marriage to last . And , it is possible that , if you spend too much time and energy thinking about what should happen when the marriage ends , you might not be putting enough time and energy into thinking about how to make the marriage last .
end question
start question
How should one account for inflation when planning retirement savings and withdrawals ?
Growth phase When you 're estimating how much you 'll have saved at retirement , subtract the average rate of inflation from your estimate of how much your savings will grow each year . For example , if you expect your retirement account to grow at 8 % a year , and you expect inflation to be 3 % each year , use 5 % as the estimated growth rate instead of 8 % . Withdrawal phase Once you reach retirement , add an estimate for the inflation rate to your annual withdrawal rate . For example , say you 've reached retirement with $ 1 million . If you expect to withdraw 4 % each year , but you expect inflation to average 1 % each year after you retire , plan on withdrawing 5 % a year instead of 4 % . This lets you adjust for the decrease in the purchasing power of your money . For example , you may spend $ 40K/year to maintain your current lifestyle . However , depending on your age , $ 40K a year might not be enough to maintain that lifestyle at retirement because of the effects of inflation . At retirement , you might need $ 50K instead . <URL> to the question " Saving for retirement : How much is enough ? " is also worth a read too .
Putting money into a Roth IRA or 401 ( k ) will save you money if your taxes this year will be lower than your taxes in retirement . If you 're young and just starting your career , there 's a good chance of this in general . Even if you 're not , most people are anticipating tax increases in our nation 's future If you have a lot of expenses one year , e.g. for medical reasons , you may have to realize a significant amount of income that year , so having it be Roth money instead of regular can help avoid higher taxes . See also <URL>
Legally speaking , when you convert that bit-coin onto something else , the Israeli Tax Authority will look into the value of that something else , compare it to the original value of the previous something else you used to buy bit-coins ( USD , in your example ) , and charge you capital gain taxes for the difference . According to the Israeli law you 're supposed to pay taxes when selling ( converting the bit-coin to something else ) , and since you 're not using any formal bank or stock broker which will automatically deduct the taxes , you have to pay the taxes yourself . By not doing so you 're committing a tax fraud . The real question you 're asking is whether they 'll come after you . Well , that depends on the amounts . They might . Pay attention : there 's no statute of limitation for tax fraud in Israel . They may come after you in 50 years from now . Another thing to keep in mind : if you used bit-coins to buy something ( services or products of any kind ) , you probably did n't pay the VAT (  "  ) - which is another case of tax fraud on your behalf . PS : I 'm not a lawyer or accountant , so get a professional advice , but I have been dealing with the Tax Authority in Israel , so I 've got a pretty good idea of what the rules are .
What is Amortization ? An amortization schedule is often used to produce identical payments for the term ( repayment period ) of a loan , resulting in the principal being paid off and the debt retired at the end of the loan . This is in contrast to an interest only , or balloon loan . These loans require little or no payment against the balance of the loan , requiring the loan to be paid indefinitely if there is no term , or requiring the loan to be entirely paid off from cash or a new loan at the end of the term . A basic amortization formula can be derived from the compound interest formula : <URL> . The basics of the formula are the periodic payment amount , A ( your monthly payment ) , can be determined by the principal loan , P , the rate , r , and the number of payments , n. Why Amortize ? Lenders lend money to make a profit on the interest . They 'd like to get back all the money they lent out . Amortization schedules are popular because the fixed low payments make it easier for borrowers to pay the loan off eventually . They also tend to be very profitable for lenders , especially at the start of the term , because they make a lot of profit on interest , just like the start of your mortgage . The principal of a mortgage has more meaning than the principal of a revolving debt credit card . The mortgage principal is fixed at the start , and represents the value of the collateral property that is your home . You could consider the amount of principal paid to be the percentage of your home that you actually own ( as part of your net worth calculation ) . Credit Card Amortization A credit card has a new balance each month depending on how much you charge and how much you pay off . Principal has less meaning in this case , because there is no collateral to compare against , and the balance will change monthly . In this case , the meaning of the amortization schedule on your credit card is how long it will take you to pay off the balance if you stop charging and pay at the proscribed payment level over the term described . Given the high interest rate on credit cards , you may end up paying twice as much for goods in the long run if you follow your lenders schedule . Who Amortizes ? Amortizing loans are common for consumer loans , unless a borrower is seeking out the lowest possible monthly payment . Lenders recognize that people will eventually die , and want to be paid off before that happens . Balloon and interest only bonds and loans are more commonly issued by businesses and governments who are ( hopefully ) investing in capital improvements that will pay off in the long run . Thousands of people and businesses have gone bankrupt in this financial crisis because their interest only loans reached term , and no one was willing to lend them money anymore to replace their existing loan .
You bought the stock at some point in the past . You must have had a reason for this purchase . Has the recent change in price changed the reason you bought the stock ? You must assume your losses are <URL> . No matter what action you take , you can not recover your losses . Do not attempt to hold the stock in the hopes of regaining value , or sell it to stop losses . Instead approach this event as if this very day , you were given shares of the company 's stock at their current market value for free as a gift . In this hypothetical situation , would you hold the shares , or sell them ? Use that to judge your options . Not everyone , myself included , can handle the mental stress of watching share prices change . You can always consider trading index funds instead , which are much less volatile but will provide consistent , albeit , boring returns . This may or may not be you , but it 's an option . Finally , do not keep money in the market you are not prepared to lose . It seems obvious , but if you lost 40 % today , you could lose 100 % tomorrow .
" Current " is another word for Checking , as it is called in the US . Savings account is an interest-bearing account with certain limitations . For example , in the US you can not withdraw money from it more than 6 times a month . <URL> . Current account is a " general-use " account on which you can write checks , use ATM/Debit cards and have unlimited transactions . It can also have negative balance ( if your bank agrees to let you overdraft , they usually charge huge fees for that though ) . Checking accounts can have interest as well , but they usually do n't , and if they do - it 's much lower than the savings account interest .
Googling led me to <URL> which has detailed breakdowns of the Target Retirement funds ; that page in turn has a link to <URL> which goes into a good level of detail on the construction of these funds ' portfolios . I excerpt : ( To the question of why so much weight in equities :) In our view , two important considerations justify an expectation of an equity risk premium . The first is the historical record : In the past , and in many countries , stock market investors have been rewarded with such a premium . ... Historically , bond returns have lagged equity returns by about 5 -- 6 percentage points , annualized -- amounting to an enormous return differential in most circumstances over longer time periods . Consequently , retirement savers investing only in " safe " assets must dramatically increase their savings rates to compensate for the lower expected returns those investments offer . ... The second strategic principle underlying our glidepath construction -- that younger investors are better able to withstand risk -- recognizes that an individual 's total net worth consists of both their current financial holdings and their future work earnings . For younger individuals , the majority of their ultimate retirement wealth is in the form of what they will earn in the future , or their " human capital . " Therefore , a large commitment to stocks in a younger person 's portfolio may be appropriate to balance and diversify risk exposure to work-related earnings ( To the question of how the exact allocations were decided :) As part of the process of evaluating and identifying an appropriate glide path given this theoretical framework , we ran various financial simulations using the Vanguard Capital Markets Model . We examined different risk-reward scenarios and the potential implications of different glide paths and TDF approaches . The PDF is highly readable , I would say , and includes references to quant articles , for those that like that sort of thing .
If you know what bank your parents used , call them and ask . ( Or you might have to go there and show id ) . Chances are if such an account exists , it would be at the same bank . You can also search for unclaimed property . <URL> .
I 've used ING Direct for several years . Never had any problems with them . They were ( and maybe still are ? ) ahead of the curve on security arrangements . You do n't need to have a brick and mortar bank to transfer money in , but it is faster and easier if you do . ( At least this is true with my mail account -- see next item . ) You do n't have to have an online account . You can bank entirely by mail if you want . ( At least I have one account set up this way , I assume you can still open an account by mail . ) They offer CDs with somewhat mediocre rates that are easy to open and fund online from your savings account . The website is relatively simple to use . I have never had any problems with transfers in or out . When you have to call , you get a human on the phone , quickly . Someone who speaks American English with reasonable diction . ( At least it used to be this way , I do n't think I 've called them in over a year . ) I 'm a fan of ING , but I do wish they managed to keep their rates on top of the chief competition .
The term " <URL> " does n't appear to be have a single meaning . It can mean cash back at a closing , extra cash pulled out when refinancing , or an annual rebate of some sort . If you provide the requested details , of the terms of a loan near $ 500K that sports a $ 1300/mo payment , you 're likely to get some excellent advice . The article I linked suggests these are just gimmicks and I agree . I 'd focus on a normal product . Edit - in response to OP 's " over the phone " comment - When asking about a mortgage you need to know ( and we need this to answer ) - Principal - the dollar amount lent to you . Interest rate - the annual percent charged on the balance The term of the loan - In the US , 30 year fixed is a popular choice . In Canada , I understand loans run 5 years , and are then renegotiated . Very simple - After those 5 years , what is the balance on the loan ? Now , that 's the mortgage itself , Asdfg above comments to remember there are other expenses , the property tax , homeowner association , if any , PMI ( or any mortgage insurance , common for low downpayment loans ) and the one time closing costs . ( If I missed something , I hope someone will just edit into this list )
Charitable deductions ( and all Schedule A deductions ) are applied to your marginal tax calculation . They reduce the taxable income on the line 43 of your tax return ( form 1040 ) . When you calculate your tax on the <URL> , you start with that number . You then deduct all the capital gains from it and calculate the ordinary tax on line 24 of the worksheet .
Shareholders of Monsanto will get the money from Bayer . Shareholders are independent people or entities . Think of Monsanto as a thing that shareholders had . This thing is now being purchased by Bayer
Banks work pretty hard to make themselves a big part of your life with bill pay , auto-deposit , loans and other services . You need to carefully unwind each one and be on the lookout for fees . If you close a savings account , will your checking account suddenly have fees ? If you stop auto deposit , will there suddenly be a fee ? Setup your new account somewhere Setup your new bill pay and use it Setup your new auto deposit , and put either most or all of you checks in the new account . Stop using your old bill pay Make sure your auto deposit stops Stop any auto withdrawals ( and then never set them up again , use bill pay instead ) Look back at a year of transactions to see anything that auto withdraws yearly Try to download as many statements and check images from the old bank as possible . Consider getting an entire year even if it costs a few dollars ( per mhoran_psprep ) Do you have a business that deposits money ? A Google Ad sense account ? PayPal or the equivalent ? These all might be tied to your bank accounts . Wait a couple of months , leaving enough cash in the old back to prevent fees if possible . If two months go by and there is n't any activity on the account , you can probably close it . After you are sure all the written checks have cleared , go to the back and get a counter check for the balance of the account . You could alternately just write yourself one more check for the remaining balance and call the bank to close the account . You could electronically transfer the funds if you wanted too . HOWEVER , it is important to be careful of the timing , the last thing you want to do is write a check or transfer the money after the account is closed . ( per Dilip Sarwate ) If you do the check and phone call thing , make sure you do it in a short enough period of time that you do n't incur a fee . Having and closing regular bank accounts wo n't have any tax implications in the US .
I wrote a <URL> ( < < it may not be obvious - this is a link to pull down the spreadsheet ) a while back that might help you . You can start by putting your current salary next to your age , adjust the percent of income saved ( 14 % for you ) and put in the current total . The sheet basically shows that if one saves 15 % from day one of working and averages an 8 % return , they are on track to save over 20X their final income , and at the 4 % withdrawal rate , will replace 80 % of their income . ( Remember , if they save 15 % and at retirement the 7.65 % FICA / medicare goes away , so it 's 100 % of what they had anyway . ) For what it 's worth , a 10 % average return drops what you need to save down to 9 % . I say to a young person - try to start at 15 % . Better that when you 're 40 , you realize you 're well ahead of schedule and can relax a bit , than to assume that 8-9 % is enough to save and find you need a large increase to catch up . To answer specifically here - there are those who concluded that 4 % is a safe withdrawal rate , so by targeting 20X your final income as retirement savings , you 'll be able to retire well . Retirement spending needs are not the same for everyone . When I cite an 80 % replacement rate , it 's a guess , a rule of thumb that many point out is flawed . The ' real ' number is your true spending need , which of course can be far higher or lower . The younger investor is going to have a far tougher time guessing this number than someone a decade away from retiring . The 80 % is just a target to get started , it should shift to the real number in your 40s or 50s as that number becomes clear . Next , I see my original answer did n't address Social Security benefits . The benefit is n't linear , a lower wage earner can see a benefit of as much as 50 % of what they earned each year while a very high earner would see far less as the benefit has a maximum . A $ 90k earner will see 30 % or less . The social security site does a great job of giving you your projected benefit , and you can adjust target savings accordingly . 2016 update - the prior 20 years returned 8.18 % CAGR . Considering there were 2 crashes one of which was called a mini-depression , 8.18 % is pretty remarkable . For what it 's worth , my adult investing life started in 1984 , and I 've seen a CAGR of 10.90 % . For forecasting purposes , I think 8 % long term is a conservative number . To answer member " doobop " comment - the 10 years from 2006-2015 had a CAGR of 7.29 % . Time has a way of averaging that lost decade , the 00 's , to a more reasonable number .
Growth phase When you 're estimating how much you 'll have saved at retirement , subtract the average rate of inflation from your estimate of how much your savings will grow each year . For example , if you expect your retirement account to grow at 8 % a year , and you expect inflation to be 3 % each year , use 5 % as the estimated growth rate instead of 8 % . Withdrawal phase Once you reach retirement , add an estimate for the inflation rate to your annual withdrawal rate . For example , say you 've reached retirement with $ 1 million . If you expect to withdraw 4 % each year , but you expect inflation to average 1 % each year after you retire , plan on withdrawing 5 % a year instead of 4 % . This lets you adjust for the decrease in the purchasing power of your money . For example , you may spend $ 40K/year to maintain your current lifestyle . However , depending on your age , $ 40K a year might not be enough to maintain that lifestyle at retirement because of the effects of inflation . At retirement , you might need $ 50K instead . <URL> to the question " Saving for retirement : How much is enough ? " is also worth a read too .
Is the TFSA contribution limit per year $ 5000/person ? The annual TFSA dollar limit for 2009 , 2010 , 2011 and 2012 was $ 5,000 . For the years 2013 , 2014 and 2015 it was $ 5,500 . How are unused contributions carried over ? Any unused TFSA contribution room from the previous year and any withdrawals made from the TFSA in the previous year are carried over . If last year I contributed only $ 3000 , then this year , would I have $ 7000 contribution room available ? You would have $ 2500 left over from last year and an extra $ 5500 this year which equals to $ 8000 assuming you maxed your TFSA in years previous and including 2013 . Also , if this year I withdraw $ 5000 , does that affect my TFSA contribution room ? You will get back the contribution room next year . Next year you will be able to contribute $ 5500 ( 2016 ) + $ 5000 ( withdrawn this year ) + $ x ( remaining contribution room ) . You can go <URL> for more information .
The word you are looking for is " budget " You ca n't pay off debt if you are spending more than you earn . Therefore , start a budget that you both work on at the same time , and both agree 100 % with . Evaluate your progress on that budget on a regular basis . From your question , you understand what your obligations are and you seem to manage money pretty well . Therefore your key to retirement is just the ticket you need . As newlyweds , you both have to be VERY aware that the main reason a marriage fails in the US is money issues . Starting out with a groundwork where you both agree to your budget and can keep it will help you a lot in your upcoming life . Then , for some details Take any match the employer provides on the 401K . Make sure you have $ 0 in long term debt . If you have unsecured debt , setup your budget to aggressively remove it If you debt is " cheap " like 2 % interest on a student loan , pay it as agreed Save up 6 months of your monthly living expenses as your emergency fund . ( This is to be kept in a savings or checking account which earns basically nothing . Sorry . ) Fully fund a ( Roth/Traditional ) IRA for the both of you . ( $ 10K / year ) FOR EXAMPLE : Start your IRA with Vanguard . Invest your money in the Star Fund . Of course your actual investment goals , tolerance for risk and other factors will determine the best company and fund for you . If right now you just need a place to start , a Vangaurd Star Fund is a safe bet and a good starting point . Feed it monthly . If you ca n't fully fund it right away ( I still ca n't ) add another percent of your pay every 6 months until you do . ( littleadv ) The decision re Roth vs Traditional IRA should be made based on your current and potential future tax rate . Generally , if your current tax rate is lower than the rate you expect at your retirement - Roth makes sense . Otherwise , go with Traditional . Roth would also make sense when you can not contribute to the Traditional due to the limitations on your income . Also , if you decide to go with Traditional IRA and your current tax rate goes down , you can convert from Traditional to Roth and utilize the lower tax rate that you 'd have . Once you 're Roth - you can not go back . ( / littleadv ) Save up money for your house , car , new business , monster truck or whatever . Spend this money regularly , because if you are doing the other things , you are doing good with money and you should enjoy your life . I still do n't have all these things done , it is just my plan If you still have all of your money accounted for , congrats . Feed your 401K to the max . Sprinkle your charitable donations anywhere in the list where you feel it is important .
Yes , mortgage underwriters will generally take into account all of your assets , including your savings and brokerage accounts . This information will be requested on the mortgage application . The reason is one of risk to the bank . The worst-case scenario to the bank is this : you stop paying your mortgage and the value of the house drops to below the amount that the bank is owed on the house , meaning that the bank is unable to recover the funds even after foreclosing on the house . In this scenario , if you have other assets , you will theoretically be able to cover the shortfall , reducing the risk to the bank . The fact that you are putting down 20 % also reduces the likelihood that the bank will find themselves in this situation , as the house would have to drop 20 % before it becomes a problem . The more you put down , the less risky it is for the bank . As for whether it is wise to put down more than 20 % , or to invest the extra money , it is entirely up to your comfort level with your investments and your debt .
Funds earned and spent before opening a dedicated business account should be classified according to their origination . For example , if your business received income , where did that money go ? If you took the money personally , it would be considered either a ' distribution ' or a ' loan ' to you . It is up to you which of the two options you choose . On the flip side , if your business had an expense that you paid personally , that would be considered either a ' contribution of capital ' or a ' loan ' from you . If you choose to record these transactions as loans , you can offset them together , so you do n't need two separate accounts , loan to you and loan from you . When the bank account was opened , the initial deposit came from where ? If it came from your personal funds , then it is either a ' contribution of capital ' or a ' loan ' from you . From the sound of your question , you deposited what remained after the preceding income/expenses . This would , in effect , return the ' loan ' account back to zero , if choosing that route . The above would also be how to record any expenses you may pay personally for the business ( if any ) in the future . Because these transactions were not through a dedicated business bank account , you ca n't record them in Quickbooks as checks and deposits . Instead , you can use Journal Entries . For any income received , you would debit your capital/loan account and credit your income account . For any expenses , you would debit the appropriate expense account and credit your distribution/loan account . Also , if setting up a loan account , you should choose either Current Asset or Current Liability type . The capital contribution and distribution account should be Equity type . Hope this helps !
Here are a few things that you could try . But note that they are all capable of failing . They will just reduce the chance of you personally having a lost decade . First a quibble : John Bogle advocates a total stock market index ( something like Vanguard 's <URL> ) instead of an S&amp;P fund , as the latter represents " only " 85 % or so of the US market 's total capitalization . Smaller companies behave slightly differently than members of the S&amp;P , so this might provide a small help . Bogle also advocates holding some bonds in addition to equities . I 'll expand on that below . Account for dividends . Just because the value of the index is the same as its value 10 or 20 years ago does n't necessarily mean that decade was lost . The companies in the S&amp;P are currently paying out an annualized dividend of about 2 % . Even if the actual value of the index does n't change , you 're still getting that 2 % per year . Include bonds . As I mentioned above , Bogle recommends holding some bonds . I have seen two common rules . One is to never have less than 20 % of your total holdings in bonds , and never have more than 80 % of your total holdings in bonds . The other popular rule is to hold your age in bonds . For example , I 'm about 30 , so I should keep about 30 % of my holdings in bonds . Regardless of the split , <URL> periodically to keep yourself at that split . What effect would holding bonds have on a lost decade ? To make the math easy , let 's say you split your holdings evenly between an S&amp;P fund and 10 year Treasuries . Coincidentally , 10 year <URL> have the same 2 % yield as the S&amp;P dividends . If you 're getting that on half your holdings , and nothing on the other half , you 're netting 1 % per year . Not great , but not totally lost . To illustrate the effect of rebalancing , use my example of a 70/30 stock/bond split . The S&amp;P lost about 50 % of its value from its peak to the bottom of the market in early 2008 . If you only held stock , you would need the market to increase in value by 100 % in order for you to recover that value . If 30 % of your holdings are in bonds , and you rebalance at exactly the bottom of the stock market , you only need the stock index to increase in value by about 80 % from the bottom in order to make you whole again . I mention those two to emphasize that your investment return is not just a function of the price of a stock index . Dollar cost average . It 's rare that you will actually face the situation of putting ( say ) $ 100,000 into the market all at once , let it sit for 10-20 years , then take it all out at once . The situation you face is closer to putting about $ 1000 into the market every month for 100 months . If you do that , then you 're getting a different price for each purchase you make . Your actual return will be a weighted average of the return from each of those purchases . But note that this could help or hurt you . Using the chart Victor showed in his answer , if your lost decade is from one peak to the next peak , your average price will be below the price you would have entered and left at . So this helps . But if your lost decade is from trough to trough , then your average price is higher than the start and end price , so this has hurt you . Those are the two extreme cases , and the general case will be somewhere in between . And you can use these regular purchases to help you carry out your regular rebalancing . Foreign equities . Since you mention the S&amp;P 500 specifically , I assume that you are in the United States . The US equities is approximately 45 % of the <URL> equities market . So even if the S&amp;P 500 has a lost decade , it 's unlikely that the rest of the world will also have a lost decade at the same time . For comparison , the Tokyo Stock Exchange is the third largest in the world ( behind the US 's NYSE and NASDAQ ) ; the market cap of the TSE is less than 20 % that of the combined market cap of the NYSE and the NASDAQ , which puts it at about 10 % of the world 's market cap . When the Nikkei had its lost decades , no one else had a lost decade . Note that buying foreign equities is more expensive than buying domestic , and it exposes you to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the currencies . But the benefit of diversification probably outweighs those downsides . And obviously it 's easier to diversify away from Japan than it is to diversify away from the United States . But there are people who advocate holding exactly the market weight of every country in the world .
end question
start question
I am closing one credit card and getting a new one . What order should I do this in ?
You must leap frog . Open the new account ( which increases your credit limit and decreases your utilization , therefore increasing your credit score a tad ) then close the old account a bit later . Closing will have opposite effect on your score . ( Decreasing your overall limit and increasing your utilization . ) Unless you are paying an annual fee , I would n't bother actually closing the old account , just stop using it and shred the cards . The bank will close it for you eventually . By the way , if you are planning on letting it expire , do n't forget to keep it up to date in your budget or tracking software . And do n't lose any online account information either . You still need to pay attention to it for odd activity and keep it secure . If you are paying an annual fee , and it is due soon , then I would suggest closing it after you have your new card to avoid the fee .
I 'm a little confused on the use of the property today . Is this place going to be a personal residence for you for now and become a rental later ( after the mortgage is paid off ) ? It does make a difference . If you can buy the house and a 100 % LTV loan would cost less than 125 % of comparable rent ... then buy the house , put as little of your own cash into it as possible and stretch the terms as long as possible . Scott W is correct on a number of counts . The " cost " of the mortgage is the after tax cost of the payments and when that money is put to work in a well-managed portfolio , it should do better over the long haul . Do n't try for big gains because doing so adds to the risk that you 'll end up worse off . If you borrow money at an after-tax cost of 4 % and make 6 % after taxes ... you end up ahead and build wealth . A vast majority of the wealthiest people use this arbitrage to continue to build wealth . They have plenty of money to pay off mortgages , but choose not to . $ 200,000 at 2 % is an extra $ 4000 per year . Compounded at a 7 % rate ... it adds up to $ 180k after 20 years ... not exactly chump change . Money in an investment account is accessible when you need it . Money in home equity is not , has a zero rate of return ( before inflation ) and is not accessible except through another loan at the bank 's whim . If you lose your job and your home is close to paid off but is n't yet , you could have a serious liquidity issue . NOW ... if a 100 % mortgage would cost MORE than 125 % of comparable rent , then there should be no deal . You are looking at a crappy investment . It is cheaper and better just to rent . I do n't care if prices are going up right now . Prices move around . Just because Canada has n't seen the value drops like in the US so far does n't mean it ca n't happen in the future . If comparable rents do n't validate the price with a good margin for profit for an investor , then prices are frothy and can not be trusted and you should lower your monthly costs by renting rather than buying . That $ 350 per month you could save in " rent " adds up just as much as the $ 4000 per year in arbitrage . For rentals , you should only pull the trigger when you can do the purchase without leverage and STILL get a 10 % CAP rate or higher ( rate of return after taxes , insurance and other fixed costs ) . That way if the rental rates drop ( and again that is quite possible ) , you would lose some of your profit but not all of it . If you leverage the property , there is a high probability that you could wind up losing money as rents fall and you have to cover the mortgage out of nonexistent cash flow . I know somebody is going to say , " But John , 10 % CAP on rental real estate ? That 's just not possible around here . " That may be the case . It IS possible somewhere . I have clients buying property in Arizona , New Mexico , Alberta , Michigan and even California who are finding 10 % CAP rate properties . They do exist . They just are n't everywhere . If you want to add leverage to the rental picture to improve the return , then do so understanding the risks . He who lives by the leverage sword , dies by the leverage sword . Down here in the US , the real estate market is littered with corpses of people who thought they could handle that leverage sword . It is a gory , ugly mess .
Well , I think you need to read whatever you signed so far . I was in a similar situation , and none of the documents I signed before closing obligated me to do anything . I was signing that the data I supplied was truthful . I suppose it was n't kind of me to walk away from the first bank , but the rate fell , and the new bank was giving the lower rate , while mine stuck to the ' lock-in ' .
If some clerk at the bank misses it , you may be able . Technically you should n't be allowed to . All three have to sign .
Growth phase When you 're estimating how much you 'll have saved at retirement , subtract the average rate of inflation from your estimate of how much your savings will grow each year . For example , if you expect your retirement account to grow at 8 % a year , and you expect inflation to be 3 % each year , use 5 % as the estimated growth rate instead of 8 % . Withdrawal phase Once you reach retirement , add an estimate for the inflation rate to your annual withdrawal rate . For example , say you 've reached retirement with $ 1 million . If you expect to withdraw 4 % each year , but you expect inflation to average 1 % each year after you retire , plan on withdrawing 5 % a year instead of 4 % . This lets you adjust for the decrease in the purchasing power of your money . For example , you may spend $ 40K/year to maintain your current lifestyle . However , depending on your age , $ 40K a year might not be enough to maintain that lifestyle at retirement because of the effects of inflation . At retirement , you might need $ 50K instead . <URL> to the question " Saving for retirement : How much is enough ? " is also worth a read too .
Utilization is near real-time . What that means is that what is reported is what is taken in terms of debt-to-income ( DTI ) ratios . When a mortgage broker pulls your credit , they will pull the latest balances with the minimum payments . This is what is taken to determine DTI along with your gross monthly income . If you do not pay your account in full before the statement date , then you more than likely will have to wait an additional statement cycle before it reports to the credit bureaus . Therefore , your utilization is dynamic and the history of your utilization month-to-month is not recorded forever . Only the current balance . What is maintained and reported is your payment history . So you want to never be late if you want to be approved anytime soon for a mortgage . A lower DTI will not help your interest rate . As long as you stay away from the maximum DTI for the mortgage vehicle you are attempting to be approved for ( VA , FHA , Conventional , etc ) , then your DTI should not be a concern . If you are borderline at the time of underwriting , you can take the opportunity and pay off the balances . The mortgage company can then do what is called a credit supplement which entails contacting those lenders where you have proven you have a zero balance and manually input the zero balance cards , that have not yet reported to the bureaus , in your final application to the mortgage company for underwriting approval .
You can find a lot of information at the HRMC website at <URL> . If you do n't want to work as an employee , you can register as self-employed ( basically a one-man band ) , which is quite simple , you can start your own company , which is more work but can have tax advantages , or you can find umbrella companies which will officially employ you while in reality you are a freelancer and only do your billing through them . Umbrella companies can be anywhere from totally legal to extremely dodgy . If they promise you that you pay only five percent tax on your income through ingenious tricks , that 's only until the tax office finds out and they will make you pay . Between self-employed and your own company , the big difference is whether you are actually working independently or not . If you work like an employee ( take someone else 's orders ) and claim you are a company , the tax office does n't like that . And if you pay very little taxes , they do n't like that either . So self-employed is the safer choice but you will pay more taxes , close to what a normal employee would pay . Obviously you will have to pay tax on your income and NHS insurance . Obviously you are required to tell the government ( actually HMRC ) about your income . Not doing so would be tax evasion and get you into deep trouble when you are caught . I do n't think you have to tell them the source of your income , but not telling them might look very suspicious and might get your accounts checked carefully . And unless you design a website for the mafia , why would n't you tell them ? The bill payer will try to deduct your bill from their profits anyway , so it 's no secret . Most important to remember : When you send out a bill and receive payment , you 'll have to pay tax on it . When self employed , as a rule of thumb put one third away into a savings account for your tax bill . Do n't spend it all or you will find yourself in deep trouble when your taxes need paying . Plus put some more away for times when you ca n't find work .
A couple of good books I enjoyed and found very understandable ( regarding the stock market ) : How to Buy Stocks by Louis Engel One Up on Wall Street by Peter Lynch As for investment information you can get lost for days in Investopedia . <URL> and click around . The tutorials <URL> ( free ) give a good introduction to different financial topics . Regarding theoretical knowledge : start with what you know well , like your career or your other interests . You 'll get a running start that way . Beyond that , it depends on what area of finance you want to start with . If it 's your personal finances , I and a lot of other bloggers write about it all the time . Any of the bloggers on my blogroll ( see my profile for the link ) will give you a good perspective . If you want to go head first into planning your financial life , take a look at Brett Wilder 's The Quiet Millionaire . It 's very involved and thorough . And , of course , ask questions here .
In case one card is rejected for a payment , whether for a valid or invalid reason In case one card company suffers an IT failure and that card ca n't be used at all So that on holiday you can carry one card with you and keep the other in your hotel safe , and you wo n't be left without means of payment if your wallet is stolen To get a higher credit limit than one card alone will give you
Yes these absolutely do exist and in many cases are a VERY good way to help your credit score ! The way these cards work is you decide on the balance of the card and give that to the bank/credit union . They then put this money on hold in a savings account in your name and give you a credit card to use . Some places require you to put a little extra for credit cards in case you go over the limit . You still pay interest on these credit cards and must make your own payments , but this way makes it much less risky to the credit union/bank . These are very simple to get approved for , and especially with kids just turning 18 and are just starting to earn their credit . Also , these cards do affect your credit card the same as any other credit card . I always suggest paying regularly on this card from 12-18 months and then going back to the credit union/bank to ask to take the hold money off hold .
Read the terms carefully . With promotional offers , if you do anything " bad " , the promotion is terminated and you immediately revert to either your normal rate or a penalty rate . " Bad " includes things like : making a late payment , going over your limit , paying less than the minimum payment , etc. . I would n't sweat the potential credit score impacts . These promotions are pretty much the best deals that you can get for an unsecured loan .
What are the available infrastructure bonds The available bonds keep changing . This ca n't be answered as its a product recommendation . Ask your broker or Bank or watch the newspapers , you will know what is currently available . At times there maybe no bond available . and can one withdraw that amount at any moment or some lock-in period is there ? Yes generally a lock-in period of 3 years . How capital gain account is different from savings account ? A capital gains account is a Bank Account . The deposit in this only allowed upon submitting the documents verifying that the money is due to capital gains . Withdrawal is only permitted to buy another property , else tax has to be paid at withdrawal . Talk to your banker and he should be able to explain more details .
Anytime you have a hard pull on your credit , it will negatively affect it , but the impact is fairly minor compared to other things . <URL>
To answer the question you will have to know when you moved ( June ) and when the losses occurred . If the partnership went bankrupt before you moved you will allocate all the losses to the first state . If it went bankrupt after you will have to prorate it . The 7/12 fraction you used might not be correct if it went bankrupt before the end of the year . Most of the losses could be in the first state . I found some guidance in the help pages for Turbo tax regarding [ part year situations ] : Method 2 for allocating earned income seems most appropriate : Method 2 : Estimate the number of weeks or months you worked at that job while you were a resident of one state and divide it by the total of weeks or months you worked at that job to come up with a factor . Then multiply the factor by the entire income from that job . Examples : If you worked at that job the entire year and moved in early May , you earned roughly 4 months ' worth of income ( 1/3 or 33 % of your total income ) in your old state . Multiply the income from that job by .33 to obtain the allocation for your old state ; the remainder is allocated to your new state . If you worked at that job for 39 weeks total ( 4 weeks while living in your old state ) you 'll divide 4 by 39 to come up with a factor of .1026 . Then multiply the income from that job by .1026 and allocate that amount to your old state ; the rest gets allocated to your new state .
So , there is no way I ( or anyone ) can provide an exact answer . Policies for approval are somewhat obfuscated by the companies and also change widely on the market and by company . But as a general statement , employment and income are largely self reported and your credit score is good . I think 30 days after hire would be more than enough . At this point in your life they are more interested in the consumer loyalty of a gainful employed young person than the small chance you might lose your job or lie about your income . They might not give you a high limit , but I suspect it would be approved if applied . And it is probably best to establish your larger limit sooner rather than later .
It can certainly help build a credit score , but remember that businesses gain credit differently from individuals . Depending on the country , there is n't usually a national register of business credit ratings the way there is for individuals . The credit record you 'd be gaining is with your own bank only . Banks will usually base your business credit record on revenue and transactional loads rather than merely on having and holding a credit card . That said , it is n't always that easy to get a business credit card and so it is a useful thing to have for credibility with clients ( depending on the type of work you do ) . A credit card can also sometimes work out cheaper ( and faster ) for financing small overdrafts than a regular business overdraft facility . That said , I 've found that larger loans over a five-year term can work out much cheaper for an established business than they would for an individual , even where the business itself has no history of using credit .
<URL> is into businesses that supply the original business ; downstream is into businesses that make use of the original product . So in that description , what they are saying is that the original business received products from plantations and sent products to manufacturing . This is also called <URL> . Meaning that they are diversifying along their supply chain so that they control more of it . This is in contrast with <URL> , where they move into new products that either compete with the existing products or which are entirely separate . In general , the upside of vertical integration is that a company is less reliant on suppliers ( and intermediate consumers ) and has more control over its supply chain . The downside is that they have less opportunity to partner with other companies in the same supply chain , as they compete with them . Some companies are better at managing to do both . For example , Amazon.com has integrated fulfillment and sales . But partners can still do their own fulfillment and/or sales , choosing how much to send out to Amazon . If you are investing in individual stocks , integrated companies can be problematic in that they cut across diversification areas . So they can be harder to balance with other stocks . You can either buy plantations , transport , and manufacturing together or not buy at all . If your investment strategy says to increase plantations and reduce manufacturing , this can be difficult to implement with an integrated company . Of course , everyone else has the same problem , which can lead to integrated companies being undervalued . So they may be an opportunity as a value stock .
The <URL> , titled " Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner for United States Tax Withholding " , certifies that you are not an American for tax purposes , so they wo n't withhold tax on your U.S. income . You 're also to use W-8BEN to identify your country of residence and corresponding tax identification number for tax treaty purposes . For instance , if you live in the U.K. , which has a tax treaty with the U.S. , your W-8BEN would indicate to the U.S. that you are not an American , and that your U.S. income is to be taxed by the U.K. instead of tax withheld in the U.S. I 've filled in that form a couple of times when opening stock trading accounts here in Canada . It was requested by the broker because in all likelihood I 'd end up purchasing U.S.-listed stocks that would pay dividends . The W-8BEN is needed in order to reduce the U.S. withholding taxes on those dividends . So I would say that the ad revenue provider is requesting you file one so they do n't need to withhold full U.S. taxes on your ad revenue . Detailed instructions on the W-8BEN form are also available from the IRS : <URL> . On the subject of ad revenue , Google also has some information about W8-BEN : <URL>
If you have $ 10000 and wish to buy 1000 shares of a $ 10 stock , you risk borrowing on margin if you go over a bit . For some people , that 's a non-issue . Some folk with an account worth say , $ 250K do n't mind going over now and then or even let the margin account run $ 100K on a regular basis . But your question is about market orders . A limit order above the market price will fast-fill at the market anyway . When I buy a stock , it 's longer term usually . A dime on a $ 30 share price wo n't affect my buy decision , so market is ok for me .
Pre-approved means they ran some basic info about you through a very simple model and have guessed that you are likely able to pay it back . Of course you wo n't actually get the loan until you provide all the detailed info they need . They got your name and address because somebody sold them a list of customers . It could have been a college , a store , or a magazine company . They can even buy your credit info from one or all of the credit agencies . Corporations , and institutions make some money by selling their lists . Sometimes buried in the fine print is the fact that they will sell this info to their partners . There are ways to stop the offers , but they depend on where you live , and what lists you are on . ( Edit from JoeT - these offers should contain the details for ' Opting Out . ' Once this is requested , the offers will be greatly reduced . Not zero , but 90 % + reduced ) What to watch out for ? It is simple , throw all these offers away . If you do need a loan or credit card you should start the process by researching companies , not by deciding on a vendor based on what junk mail they send you . If you do end up getting a credit card or a loan , these offers will continue . The credit agencies will provide a list of customers with new lines of credit to somebody willing to pay . They will offer you balance transfers , better rates , larger credit lines . Some of the offers will also come from your bank or credit card company . The advice is the same throw them away . If you want to see a flood of offers , just get denied for a credit card ...
end question
start question
How to invest in a currency increasing in value relative to another ?
What you 're looking for are either FX Forwards or FX Futures . These products are traded differently but they are basically the same thing -- agreements to deliver currency at a defined exchange rate at a future time . Almost every large venue or bank will transact forwards , when the counterparty ( you or your broker ) has sufficient trust and credit for the settlement risk , but the typical duration is less than a year though some will do a single-digit multi-year forward on a custom basis . Then again , all forwards are considered custom contracts . You 'll also need to know that forwards are done on currency pairs , so you 'll need to pick the currency to pair your NOK against . Most likely you 'll want EUR/NOK simply for the larger liquidity of that pair over other possible pairs . A quote on a forward will usually just be known by the standard currency pair ticker with a settlement date different from spot . E.g. " EUR/NOK 12M " for the 12 month settlement . Futures , on the other hand , are exchange traded and more standardized . The vast majority through the CME ( Chicago Mercantile Exchange ) . Your broker will need access to one of these exchanges and you simply need to " qualify " for futures trading ( process depends on your broker ) . Futures generally have highest liquidity for the next " IMM " expiration ( quarterly expiration on well known standard dates ) , but I believe they 're defined for more years out than forwards . At one FX desk I 've knowledge of , they had 6 years worth of quarterly expirations in their system at any one time . Futures are generally known by a ticker composed of a " globex " or " cme " code for the currency concatenated with another code representing the expiration . For example , " NOKH6 " is ' NOK ' for Norwegian Krone , ' H ' for March , and ' 6 ' for the nearest future date 's year that ends in ' 6 ' ( i.e. 2016 ) . Note that you 'll be legally liable to deliver the contracted size of Krone if you hold through expiration ! So the common trade is to hold the future , and net out just before expiration when the price more accurately reflects the current spot market .
I found out that government is going to change ISO 4217 code of local currency . So Gnucash adaptation to this would be easy and mostly mechanical . Duplicate all accounts you have with new ISO currency Set fixed rate between old and new currency Transfer all asserts from old accounts Delete old accounts
While this may seem like a good idea , it 's not really what it seems . Here 's why . Your money is in US dollars . You 're going to have to use those USD to buy Australian dollars before you can buy the Australian bonds . When you sell the Australian bonds , you 're going to have to convert the money back from Australian currency to US Dollars . In the meantime , the Australian dollar may have gone up , or gone down . So you 're taking a very big currency risk . There is a way to solve this problem : you can use currency futures to hedge against this currency risk . What that means is , essentially , that you buy insurance against the possibility that the Australian dollar goes down . The cost of this insurance reduces the money you make . In fact , it 's going to reduce it by almost exactly the difference between Australian and US interest rates . Why ? Well , because the insurance ( currency futures ) trades freely , the Australian bonds trade freely , and US bonds trade freely , too , so if there was such a thing as a " free lunch " other speculators would have arbitraged it away . The three rates ( Australian interest rate , US interest rate , and the price of currency futures ) MUST and WILL move in tandem . SO ... while you might THINK that you 're getting a 5 % rate instead of a 0 % rate , what you 're really doing is making a bet on the future direction of the Australian currency relative to the US currency . That might not be something you expected , and unless you have a strong desire to speculate in currency and take macro-economic views on where various currencies are going , this is probably not the investment you thought it was .
Your best approach is to assess rent levels in your local area for offices of a similar size . You need to take into account all the usuals - amenities , parking , etc , just as if your home-office was provided by a third-party . Get your $ / sq ft and work out the monthly amount . With this figure , you need to then work out what % of it you can charge . If the space is used exclusively for the business , charge 100 % . If it 's used about half the time , charge 50 % , etc. . I would strongly advise you to do two things - 1 . make sure your accountant and your attorney help you get this squared away . 2 . document everything about how you arrived at the cost . Nothing fancy , but dates , realtors , addresses , $ / sq foot . A simple table will do . By doing these two things , if the IRS should come around to chat , you should be covered .
I 'm not a tax professional , and this is something you should get a professional advice on . But having said that , I think you answered your own question . It is explained in that Forbes article , that the donated value is in fact the value of the house you 're going to demolish . So in fact you did n't donate anything but rather got help in demolishing a structure you would have demolished anyway . I believe ( as a non-professional ) it would be difficult to claim a deduction in such a scenario , and the courts ruled accordingly in <URL> . It is held there that the deduction value did n't exceed the value of the services provided ( burning down the house ) . Held , further : Ps did not make a charitable contribution within the meaning of sec . 170 ( c ) as a result of their donation of the house because they received a substantial benefit in exchange for the donation and have failed to show that the value of the property donated exceeded the value of the benefit received Also , keep in mind that you do n't donate the land or the structure , only the right to burn it down . Which also invalidates the deduction , as has been ruled in <URL> . Held , further , Ps donated only the use of the Vienna property and the house to FCFRD , a partial interest in the property , and pursuant to I.R.C. sec . 170 ( f ) ( 3 ) are not entitled to the $ 92,865 noncash charitable contribution deduction claimed on their 2006 income tax return under I.R.C. sec . 170 ( a ) . Bottom line - get a proper tax and legal advice from a professional , but to me it looks like that ship has sailed , and the deduction will no longer be allowed .
It is a must in most folks ' portfolios . If you invest in <URL> ETFs/funds , you 'll have a decent amount of healthcare . If you invest in actively managed value , blend , and growth mutual funds , you 'll also get healthcare . If you 're rolling your own portfolio ( in the US ) , you might consider starting with a general purpose health company ( e.g. J&amp;J ) , then maybe add a large pharma company ( e.g. Pfizer , Merck , etc ) , then top off with some more specialized/focused companies . Of course , you do n't want to put all of your portfolio in healthcare alone . There are other sectors that also have good long-term outlooks ( energy &amp; tech , as well ) . EDIT : Added link to Morningstar portfolio analysis for SPX .
John 's answer is similar to what I was thinking . You should invest in insurance " because there 's an insurance salesman who needs to pay to send his kid to college . " I will never be a fan of any type of permanent insurance , and I think it wrong to sell a single person with no dependents such a policy . I 've used the expression " Variable Annuities are sold , not bought . " I feel the same about these insurance policies . The best advice I can offer in a short reply is this : If you need life insurance , buy term . Save as much as you can , 10 % minimum , more if you are able . A young person should be saving for retirement and to position them self to buy their first house , if that 's what they wish . What good is a full up Whole Life policy when you need to raise $ 40K to put down on a house ? Sorry to sound like I 'm lecturing , this is one of my hot points .
What you 're looking for is the ' Transaction Report ' . When you 're looking at the report ( it comes up empty ) , open the options and click on the first tab ' Accounts ' . Here you can highlight multiple source accounts in the top pane , and filter by the Expense accounts that you are interested in the bottom pane . Here 's an <URL> that goes over the process ( there are many examples online , I just included the first one that came up in a search ) .
LVR is Loan To Value Ratio . If we are buying a property of $ 100,000 with a loan of $ 75,000 , the LVR is 75 % . It is applicable to India as well . In Indian Context it is typically called Debt Equity Ratio . For most of the bank , if we are buying house of INR25 ,00,000 an LVR of 75 % will be asked by the bank . This means the buyer has to pay 25 % from his own sources .
As others have mentioned , it 's important that there is a fair assessment of the market value of the items being donated . Joel 's point about the government not looking kindly upon overvalued donations also applies in Canada : the CRA does n't look kindly upon <URL> such as " buy-low , donate-high arrangements . " Since nobody has offered up authoritative information for Canada yet , here 's something to look at : <URL> Excerpts : 3 ) Gifts in kind of a taxpayer include capital property , depreciable property , personal-use property ... [ ... ] 6 ) The fair market value of a gift in kind as of the date of the donation ( the date on which beneficial ownership is transferred from the donor to the donee ) must be determined before an amount can be recorded on a receipt for tax purposes . [ ... ] The person who determines the fair market value of the property must be competent and qualified to evaluate the particular property being transferred by way of a gift . Property of little or only nominal value to the donor will not qualify as a gift in kind . Used clothing of little value would be an example of a non-qualifying contribution . You will need to find a charity that would both value the books you would be donating and be willing to issue you a receipt for your charitable donation . Whatever receipt they issue should be in line with fair market value of the goods donated . Assume your donation receipt will be challenged , and keep both : An inventory of what you donated ( pictures might help ) , and Supporting documentation used in helping assess the fair market value of the goods ; the CRA might not accept a verbal " I checked eBay " . Finally , reasonable comparables might be prices for similar used goods , not a percentage of new . Though , if you ca n't find a price for a particular title in the used market , an estimate consistent with other valuations in the lot would be better than nothing , perhaps .
To fairly compare a comp-only job to a job that offers insurance , get a quote for health insurance . Call your local insurance broker and find out what it would cost . Because if you are n't getting insurance from your employer , you 'll have to get it elsewhere . If you get a quote on an HSA , do n't forget to add in the annual deductible as part of the cost . On the ESPP , I 'd count it as zero . The rationale being that so much of your financial status is tied to your employer that you do n't really want to tie up too much more in company stock . ( I.e. Company hits hard times , stock tanks , and then they lay you off . Double whammy -- both your assets and income . ) But given that I 've only been employed by companies that no longer exist in their original form , my perspective may be warped .
The mathematical answer is for you to have a diversified portfolio in your ISA . But that 's easier said than done .
I would ask for a down payment of 1000 Euros through paypal or a similar payment source . If he backs out , he forfeits the 1000 eu . If that happens your airfare is covered plus some spending money . If he does not cancel then the down counts towards payment . In order for him to feel safer , I would take a pic of the ring with today 's paper , or something that can be dated as recent . Keep in mind you guys can meet at a bank to do the exchange . This way you both feel safer . The bottom line is what are you willing to do to sell the ring at that price ?
From my experience , almost always it is cheaper to pay in the local currency , including the bank fees and the bank conversion rates . If you let the store convert to your home currency for you it will be the least favorable rate you could have gotten anywhere . There might be some exceptions , but I have n't seen these .
This is usually a piece of information obtainable from the central/government bank of that country . Each country has its own laws , and each currency release has its own laws . I 've lived in a place that changed bills to coins , and the bills can still be returned to any bank for replacement , but are not considered " legal tender " in the sense that you can go and buy stuff with them ( anyone who is not a bank has a right not to accept them as money ) . Same country had a currency change 10 years prior ( not just bills , the whole currency including the currency name ) , and the old bills are no longer valid and can not be exchanged ( I have some left ) . So to answer your question directly - central bank of that country ( if it exists , if it does n't the currency is probably just a collectible item ) . BTW : To the best of my knowledge , all the European currencies that were changed to Euro 's are no longer valid and can no longer be exchanged .
If you " do business " in a state , then you need to register your business in that state . I suspect that you have a misconception of what it means to " do business " in a state . If you are a 1-man shop , then you very likely are not doing business in any state except the one state where you work . Examples of when you are doing business in a state include having an office in the state or having employees in the state . Merely selling something to a client in that state is NOT enough to be doing business in the state . Each state is different , but unless you are doing something that is , in some sense , close to having an office or an employee in a state , then you have nothing to worry about . For example , if you regularly travel to a state to do work for a client then it is possible that you could be doing business in that state ( I have no idea if that would be sufficient in any state ) . But if you are just working out of your basement running a website , then you are only doing business in your own state .
Your account is your account , hers is hers . The fact that you file taxes jointly does n't change that . The " I " in IRA stands for Individual . You can not merge them . There are certain conditions when you can withdraw your IRA penalty-free , check <URL> for some pointers .
You can check this website : <URL> It asks you some basic questions about how much of a deductable you would like , whether or not you would like dental insurance and so on . You should be able to use Google translate to help if need be . As for the health insurance subsidy ( zorgtoeslag ) , the above website says the criteria to receive it are : You 're 18 years or older You 're a Dutch citizen or legally staying in the Netherlands You have a " basic " health insurance plan as specified in the law You are not in prison , in active military service or are not opposed to insurance due to religious reasons You have a maximum income of ( in 2014 ) 28.482 as a single person or 37.145 with a partner . The amount of subsidy you could get depends on your income ( as shown in the graph on the same webpage ) : <URL> The simplest way to deal with these things is to get some help from a local once you are there . If a few euro / month subsidy is going to make or break your decision to study in the Netherlands , I would advise against going there . The rules around these things tend to change every couple of years , sometimes favorably and sometimes unfavorably .
<URL> suggests that two Fidelity funds hold preferred shares of Snapchat Inc. . Preferred shares hold more in common with bonds than with ordinary stock as they pay a fixed dividend , have lower liquidity , and do n't have voting rights . Because of this lower liquidity they are not usually offered for sale on the market . Whether these funds are allowed to hold such illiquid assets is more a question for their strategy document than the law ; it is completely legal for a company to hold a non-marketable interest in another , even if the company is privately held as Snapchat is . The strategy documents governing what the fund is permitted to hold , however , may restrict ownership either banning non-market holdings or restricting the percentage of assets held in illiquid instruments . Since IPO is very costly , funds like these who look to invest in new companies who have not been through IPO yet are a very good way of taking a diversified position in start-ups . Since they look to invest directly rather than through the market they are an attractive , low cost way for start-ups to generate funds to grow . The fund deals directly with the owners of the company to buy its shares . The markdown of the stock value reflects the accounting principle of marking to market ( MTM ) financial assets that do not have a trade price so as to reflect their fair value . This markdown implies that Fidelity believe that the total NPV of the company 's net assets is lower than they had previously calculated . This probably reflects a lack of revenue streams coming into the business in the case of Snapchat . edit : by the way , since there is no market for start-up " stocks " pre-IPO my heart sinks a little every time I read the title of this question . I 'm going to be sad all day now :( .
To confirm : you say you have credit card debt of $ 18,000 with min . repayment of $ 466.06 , plus on top of this you are also paying off a car loan and another personal loan . From my calculations if your monthly interest on your credit card is $ 237 , the interest on your credit card should be about 15.8 % p.a. Is this correct ? Balance Transfer If you did a balance transfer of your $ 18,000 to a new credit card with 0 % for 14 months and keep your repayments the same ( $ 466 ) you would have saved yourself a bit over $ 3020 in interest over those 14 months . Your credit card balance after 14 months would be about $ 11,471 ( instead of $ 14,476 with your current situation ) . If your interest after the 14 months went back to 15.8 % you would be able to pay the remaining $ 11,471 in 2.5 more years ( keeping repayments at $ 466 ) , saving 10 months off your repayments and a total of $ 4,781 in interest over 3 years and 8 months . The main emphasis here is that you are able to keep your repayments at least the same so you are able to pay off the debt quicker , and that your interest rate on the new credit card after the 14 months interest free is not more than your current interest rate of 15.8 % . Things you should be careful about if you take this path : make sure the new credit card has no hidden fees ( read the PDS carefully ) . make sure the new credit card interest rate is not more than your current interest rate after the interest free period . make sure you keep paying at least your current minimum repayments you are paying now and if you can reduce other expenses then increase these payments even more to save even more interest and save even more time paying off the debt . Stop any new spending on the credit card . Debt Consolidation In regards to a Debt Consolidation for your personal loan and credit card ( and possibly your car loan ) into a single lower interest rate loan can be a good idea , but there are some pitfalls you should consider . Manly , if you are taking out a loan with a lower interest rate but a longer term to pay it off , you may end up paying less in monthly repayments but will end up paying more interest in the long run . If you do take this course of action try to keep your term to no longer than your current debt 's terms , and try to keep your repayments as high as possible to pay the debt off as soon as possible and reduce any interest you have to pay . As you already have you credit card and personal loan with <URL> talk to them to see what kind of deal they can give you . Again be wary of the fine print and read the PDS of any products you are thinking of getting . Refer to <URL> website for more valuable information you should consider before taking out any debt consolidation . Other Action You Can Take If you are finding that the repayments are really getting out of hand and no one will help you with any debt consolidation or reducing your interest rates on your debts , as a last resort you can apply for a <URL> . But be very careful as this is an alternative to bankruptcy , and like bankruptcy a debt agreement will appear on your credit file for seven years and your name will be listed on the National Personal Insolvency Index forever . Further Assistance and Help If you have trouble reading any PDS , or want further information or help regarding any issues I have raised or any other part of your financial situation you can contact <URL> . They provide a free and confidential service that provides education and information on financial and lifestyle issues to all Australians .
end question
start question
When is a good time to invest in gold ? In what situations is the price of gold likely to drop ?
A good time to invest in gold WAS about ten years ago , when it had reached a 20-year bottom around $ 300 an ounce . That 's when I was buying ( gold stocks , not physical gold ) . Since then , it 's gone up 5-6 times in ten years . It might continue to go up of course , but it also has long way down to go , because it has come up " too far , too fast . " I have since sold my gold stocks . Alternatives to gold include other metals such as silver and copper ( which actually belong in the same chemical family ) as well as platinum and palladium . But they , too , have run up a lot in price over the past ten years .
Gold 's value starts with the fact that its supply is steady and by nature it 's durable . In other words , the amount of gold traded each year ( The <URL> ) is small relative to the existing total stock . This acting as a bit of a throttle on its value , as does the high cost of mining . Mines will have yields that control whether it 's profitable to run them . A mine may have a $ 600/oz production cost , in which case it 's clear they should run full speed now with gold at $ 1200 , but if it were below $ 650 or so , it may not be worth it . It also has a history that goes back millennia , it 's valued because it always was . John Maynard Keynes referred to gold as an archaic relic and I tend to agree . You are right , the topic is controversial . For short periods , gold will provide a decent hedge , but no better than other financial instruments . We are now in an odd time , where the stock market is generally flat to where it was 10 years ago , and both cash or most commodities were a better choice . Look at sufficiently long periods of time , and gold fails . In my history , I graduated college in 1984 , and in the summer of 82 played in the commodities market . Gold peaked at $ 850 or so . Now it 's $ 1200 . 50 % over 30 years is hardly a storehouse of value now , is it ? Yet , I recall Aug 25 , 1987 when the Dow peaked at 2750 . No , I did n't call the top . But I did talk to a friend advising that I ignore the short term , at 25 with little invested , I only concerned myself with long term plans . The Dow crashed from there , but even today just over 18,000 the return has averaged 7.07 % plus dividends . A lengthy tangent , but important to understand . A gold fan will be able to produce his own observation , citing that some percent of one 's holding in gold , adjusted to maintain a balanced allocation would create more positive returns than I claim . For a large enough portfolio that 's otherwise well diversified , this may be true , just not something I choose to invest in . Last - if you wish to buy gold , avoid the hard metal . GLD trades as 1/10 oz of gold and has a tiny commission as it trades like a stock . The buy/sell on a 1oz gold piece will cost you 4-6 % . That 's no way to invest . Update - 29 years after that lunch in 1987 , the Dow was at 18448 , a return of 6.78 % CAGR plus dividends . Another 6 years since this question was asked and Gold has n't moved , $ 1175 , and 6 years ' worth of fees , 2.4 % if you buy the GLD ETF . From the '82 high of $ 850 to now ( 34 years ) , the return has a CAGR of .96 % / yr or .56 % after fees . To be fair , I picked a relative high , that $ 850 . But I did the same choosing the pre-crash 2750 high on the Dow .
A good way to measure the performance of your investments is over the long term . 25-30 % returns are easy to get ! It 's not going to be 25-30 % in a single year , though . You should n't expect more than about 4 % real ( inflation-adjusted ) return per year , on average , over the long term , unless you have reason to believe that you 're doing a better job of predicting the market than the intellectual and investment might of Wall Street - which is possible , but hard . ( Pro tip : It 's actually quite easy to outdo the market at large over the short term just by getting lucky or investing in risky askets in a good year . Earning this sort of return consistently over many years , though , is stupidly hard . Usually you 'll wipe out your gains several years into the process , instead . ) The stock market fluctuates like crazy , which is why they tell you not to invest any money you 're likely to need sooner than about 5 years out and you switch your portfolio from stocks to bonds as you approach and enter retirement . The traditional benchmark for comparison , as others have mentioned , is the rate of return ( including dividends ) from the Standard and Poors 500 Index . These are large stable companies which make up the core of larger United States business . ( Most people supplement these with some smaller companies and overseas companies as a part of the portfolio . )
The cost to you for selling is 3/8 % of a years salary , this is what you wo n't get if you sell . Tough to calculate the what-if scenarios beyond this , since I ca n't quantify the risk of a price drop . Once the amount in he stock is say ,10 % , of a years salary , if you know a drop is coming , a sale is probably worth it , for a steep drop . My stronger focus would be on how much of your wealth is concentrated in that one stock , Enron , and all .
Gold is classified as a collectible so the gain rates are as follows : Held less than one year . The capital gain is taxed at ordinary income tax rate , ( up to 35 % ) . See <URL> . Held more than one year . The capital gain is also taxed at ordinary income rate , but with a cap of 28 % . In other words , if your marginal tax rate is 15 % , the gain is taxed at 15 % , not 28 % . If you 're rich and your marginal tax rate is 35 % , then you tax the gain at 28 % . See <URL> . So you 'd report a gain of $ 100 or $ 1,000 , depending on which coin you sold .
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
The earliest order is the price . If the seller submits a Limit Order to Sell at $ 10 at 9:30 AM , it will enter the order book and $ 10 will be shown to the world as Best Ask . Then if the buyer submits a Limit Order to Buy at $ 20 at 9:31 AM , it becomes a Marketable Limit Order because $ 20 is better than the Best Ask of $ 10 . The trade will be executed at $ 10 , not somewhere between $ 10 and $ 20 . That limit order to buy at $ 20 will never be shown in the order book , nor will the $ 20 be shown as best bid . A trade happens when : Incoming Buy Order has limit price equal to or above National Best Offer ; or Incoming Sell Order has limit price equal to or below National Best Bid . For examples of rules , please see <URL>
They do " Hibah " ( " gift " ) : <URL> Basically , the bank rewards you , with a " gift " , for the profits that it makes from your deposits but without specifying those details in contract . So , unlike a non-islamic deposit you ca n't have any garantee about when or how much the reward will be . In that way it 's more like a dividend .
Trying to " time the market " is usually a bad idea . People who do this every day for a living have a hard time doing that , and I 'm guessing you do n't have that kind of time and knowledge . So that leaves you with your first and third options , commonly called lump-sum and dollar cost averaging respectively . Which one to use depends on where your preferences lie on the risk/reward scpectrum . Dollar cost averaging ( DCA ) has lower risk and lower reward than lump sum investing . In my opinion , I do n't like it . DCA only works better than lump sum investing if the price drops . But if you think the price is going to drop , why are you buying the stock in the first place ? Example : Your uncle wins the lottery and gives you $ 50,000 . Do you buy $ 50,000 worth of Apple now , or do you buy $ 10,000 now and $ 10,000 a quarter for the next four quarters ? If the stock goes up , you will make more with lump-sum ( LS ) than you will with DCA . If the stock goes down , you will lose more with LS than you will with DCA . If the stock goes up then down , you will lose more with DCA than you will with LS . If the stock goes down then up , you will make more with DCA than you will with LS . So it 's a trade-off . But , like I said , the whole point of you buying the stock is that you think it 's going to go up , which is especially true with an index fund ! So why pick the strategy that performs worse in that scenario ?
So , this is n't always the case , but in the example provided the option is most likely in the money or near the money since the delta is nearly 1 - indicating that a $ 1 move in the underlying results in a $ 0.92 move in the option - this will happen when the expiration is very far out or the option is in the money . As expiration gets closer , movements in the underlying become more pronounced in the options because the probability of the stock price moving from its current position is lower . As the probability of the stock price moving goes down , the delta of in the money options approaches 100 , eventually reaching 100 at expiration . Another way to word this is that the premium on in the money options shrinks as expiration approaches and the intrinsic value of the option increases as percentage of total value so that movements in the underlying stock price become a greater influence on the option price - hence a greater delta . Again , if the option is out of the money , this is not the case .
Get your jewelery appraised . ( Do n't let whoever does the appraisal be the same person whom you would sell it to . ) Logically jewelery must be worthy more than the raw gold that makes it up because somebody took the time to design patterns and do specialty craft to the metal .
Converting Chris W. Rea 's comment into an answer See en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E-gold , e.g. " [ ... ] they are legally required to perform various sorts of " know your customer " background checks " and " e-gold initiated a value access plan that was approved by relevant governmental authorities in the U.S. Users would have access to the value in their accounts after submitting additional information to e-gold , and after a review of this information by the Court-appointed Claims Administrator and the U.S. Government . " Please verify with the Clamins Administrator
From <URL> A frontier market is a type of developing country which is more developed than the least developing countries , but too small to be generally considered an emerging market . The term is an economic term which was coined by International Finance Corporation 's Farida Khambata in 1992 . The term is commonly used to describe the equity markets of the smaller and less accessible , but still " investable " , countries of the developing world . The frontier , or pre-emerging equity markets are typically pursued by investors seeking high , long-run return potential as well as low correlations with other markets . Some frontier market countries were emerging markets in the past , but have regressed to frontier status . Investopedia has a <URL> on Emerging Vs Frontier While frontier market investments certainly come with some substantial risks , they also may post the kind of returns that emerging markets did during the 1990s and early 2000s . The frontier market contains anywhere from one-fifth to one-third of the world 's population and includes several exponentially growing economies . The other Question and are they a good option as well ? This depends on risk appetite and your current investment profile . If you have already invested in domestic markets with a well diversified portfolio and have also invested in emerging markets , you can then think of expanding your portfolio into these .
Prices quoted are primarily the offer prices quoted by the numerous market makers on the stock exchange ( s ) willing to sell you the stock . There is another price which generally is n't seen on these websites , the bid prices , which are lower prices quoted by buyers and market makers willing to buy your shares from you . You would n't see those prices , unless you login to your trade terminal . How meaningful are they to you depends on what you want to do buy or sell . If you want to buy then yes they are relevant . But if you want to sell , then no . And remember some websites delay market information by 15 minutes , in case of Google you might have seen that the volume is delayed by 15 minutes . So you need to consider that also while trading , but may n't be a concern unless you are trying to buy out the company .
It will depend somewhat on the rules where the company is formed , and perhaps how much you 're talking about investing . I do n't know about Canada , but when I 've formed businesses in the U.S. , I 've been advised to invest some of the money as an equity investment , and the bulk of the remainder as a loan . You say " more shares " , so it sounds like you 've already invested some money and need to inject another round . If you make a loan to the company , make sure everything is done at arm 's length -- you 'll need to wear the hat of the Company Management and sign a contract with yourself , use a market-based interest rate , and make sure the company is paying you back with interest . An alternative which may work if you expect cash flow soon is to pay for certain expenses personally and then submit an expense report to the company , which will pay you back . Overall , a quick consultation with your accountant should be a relatively inexpensive way to get the best answer for your specific circumstances .
The deadline for each year is June 30th of the next year . So if you became US resident in 2014 - the first FBAR has to be filed by June 30th , 2015 . As with tax returns , FBAR is filed for the previous calendar year .
I emailed Dr. Varian , the chief economist at Google ( formerly a Berkeley economist ) to ask ; he responded that the GPI was never intended to be a public project , data source , etc. . It was simply a project internal to Google that got hyped up by the press . In my opinion ( unconfirmed by Dr. Varian ) Google , like virtually every other company , probably uses the Consumer Price Index ( CPI ) in their economic analyses .
For the last few years around 2,500 metric tonnes of gold have been produced each year . This is on top of existing supply of 160,000 metric tonnes . Existing yearly production is around 1.5 % of the existing supply . Charts from <URL> .
The problem I have with gold is that it 's only worth what someone will pay you for it . To a degree that 's true with any equity , but with a company there are other capital resources etc that provide a base value for the company , and generally a business model that generates income . Gold just sits there . it does n't make products , it does n't perform services , you ca n't eat it , and the main people making money off of it are the folks charging a not insubstantial commission to sell it to you , or buy it back . Sure it 's used in small quantities for things like plating electrical contacts , dental work , shielding etc. . But Industrial uses account for only 10 % of consumption . Mostly it 's just hoarded , either in the form of Jewelry ( 50 % ) or ' investment ' ( bullion/coins ) 40 % . Its value derives largely from rarity and other than the last few years , there 's no track record of steady growth over time like the stock market or real-estate . Just look at what gold prices did between 10 to 30 years ago , I 'm not sure it came anywhere near close to keeping pace with inflation during that time . If you look at the chart , you see a steady price until the US went off the gold standard in 1971 , and rules regarding ownership and trading of gold were relaxed . There was a brief run up for a few years after that as the market ' found its level ' as it were , and you really need to look from about 74 forward ( which it experienced its first ' test ' and demonstration of a ' supporting ' price around 400/oz inflation adjusted . Then the price fluctuated largely between 800 to 400 per ounce ( adjusted for inflation ) for the next 30 years . ( Other than a brief sympathetic ' Silver Tuesday ' spike due to the Hunt Brothers manipulation of silver prices in 1980 . ) Not sure if there is any causality , but it is interesting to note that the recent ' runup ' in price starts in 2000 at almost the same time the last country ( the Swiss ) went off the ' gold standard ' and gold was no longer tied to any currency ( or vise versa ) If you bought in '75 as a hedge against inflation , you were DOWN , as much as 50 % during much of the next 33 years . If you managed to buy at a ' low ' the couple of times that gold was going down and found support around 400/oz ( adjusted ) then you were on average up slightly as much as a little over 50 % ( throwing out silver Tuesday ) but then from about '98 through '05 had barely broken even . I personally view ' investments ' in gold at this time as a speculation . Look at the history below , and ask yourself if buying today would more likely end up as buying in 1972 or 1975 ? ( or gods forbid , 1980 ) Would you be taking advantage of a buying opportunity , or piling onto a bubble and end up buying at the high ? Note from Joe - The article <URL> adds to the discussion , and supports Chuck 's answer .
Without getting into whether you should invest in Gold or Not ... 1 . Where do I go and make this purchase . I would like to get the best possible price . If you are talking about Physical Gold then Banks , Leading Jewelry store in your city . Other options are buying Gold Mutual Fund or ETF from leading fund houses . 2 . How do I assure myself of quality . Is there some certificate of quality/purity ? This is mostly on trust . Generally Banks and leading Jewelry stores will not sell of inferior purity . There are certain branded stores that give you certificate of authenticity 3 . When I do choose to sell this commodity , when and where will I get the best cost ? If you are talking about selling physical gold , Jewelry store is the only place . Banks do not buy back the gold they sold you . Jewelry stores will buy back any gold , however note there is a buy price and sell price . So if you buy 10 g and sell it back immediately you will not get the same price . If you have purchased Mutual Funds / ETF you can sell in the market .
end question
start question
Can a foreigner filing US taxes as resident claim Lifetime Learning credit ?
If you elect ( or your wife , rather ) to have you taxed as a US resident - then you can also get the credits .
That 's true for the tax return . The T1135 has some late penalties . These only apply if you had to file one , some/most people do n't . <URL>
FICO score tracks credit , not checking or savings . Unless there was a credit line attached , no impact at all .
Keep in mind that many checks are being cashed via scanner or photo . These can be home based , business based or ATM based systems . The key requirement is that the software has to be able to distinguish the " written " parts from the background parts . If the image does n't have enough contrast for the edge detection to work , the check ca n't be easily processed . In that case a human looks at the image and decodes the image and processes the transaction . The image is not in color . Many businesses scan the check and hand the original back to you after having the Point of Sale system process the image . Post 2001 the checks in the united states are no longer moved through the banking system , only their images . With the roll out of these image based systems , in the future almost no physical checks will be seen by banks . Therefore the actual ink color is not important , only the result .
Congrats on the upcoming wedding ! <URL> . They note that you can choose to treat your spouse as a US resident for tax purposes and file jointly if you want to , by attaching a certain declaration to your tax return . Though I 'm not a tax expert , if your partner has significant income it seems like this might increase your taxes due . You can also apply for an SSN ( used for tax filings , joint or separate return ) at a social security office or US consulate , by form SS-5 , or file form W-7 with the IRS to get a Taxpayer Identification Number which is just as useful for this purpose . Without that , you can write " Non Resident Alien " ( or " NRA " ) in the box for your partner 's SSN , and mail in a paper return like that . See <URL> page 22 ( discussions on TurboTax <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) .
Nothing unusual for the federal taxes . Just include the amounts of both on your tax return ( line 7 of <URL> and so forth ) . If the jobs were in different states , then you may have extra work filing for taxes in two states .
It seems that counting your father as your dependent should n't , in itself , cause him to be ineligible for SNAP . Eligibility requirements for SNAP can be found on <URL> . There are upper limits on the " countable resources , such as a bank account " that the beneficiary 's household may have , and on that household 's income . ( There are some other requirements , too . ) From what I can tell from your question , your father should n't be part of your household for SNAP purposes , because : Everyone who lives together and purchases and prepares meals together is grouped together as one household . If you 're transferring him money , I assume he 's living and eating somewhere else , so it seems you are not part of his household . According to the IRS 's Publication 501 , your father is not required to be part of your household for IRS purposes to be your dependent . <URL> is that a non-child dependent must either : Live with you all year as a member of your household , or Be related to you in one of the ways listed under <URL> However , by the <URL> , you may be able to use your father as your qualifying person ( dependent ) to be able to file as " head of household " , so long as you pay more than half their support , and " more than half the cost of keeping up a home that was the main home for the entire year for your father " . I do n't know if in this case the IRS would consider your father " part of your household " or not . Even if the IRS considered your father part of your household based on the way you filed your taxes , I think it 's possible , as the IRS and FNS are two different entities , that the definition of your father 's household for SNAP purposes could be different from the IRS 's .
You were told wrong . Lifetime Learning Credit is not a refundable credit . I.e. : it reduces your tax liability , but you can not get refund if it exceeds your tax liability . See <URL> for more information : A tax credit reduces the amount of income tax you may have to pay . Unlike a deduction , which reduces the amount of income subject to tax , a credit directly reduces the tax itself . The lifetime learning credit is a nonrefundable credit . This means that it can reduce your tax to zero , but if the credit is more than your tax the excess will not be refunded to you . You may be able to qualify for a different benefit : the American Opportunity credit . This one is ( partially ) refundable . See <URL> for details . <URL> .
These are similar but one outcome is easier to manager first : Hard Pull does negatively effect credit slightly ( " new credit " on that chart ) second : A lower credit utilization ratio ( " amounts owed " on the chart ) increases your credit greater than a hard pull does . In both scenarios ( getting a new card vs increase on an existing card ) , if approved , you will have a lower credit utilization ratio , thereby increasing your credit if you keep that ratio low and pay minimums . But if you just keep one card , and that card has a higher limit , then you will have more flexibility on the size of purchases you can make without effecting your utilization ratio . Making the option of a credit increase on an existing card easier to manage . It is also more likely to get approved for a greater credit increase on an existing card than getting approved for a new card . ( ie . its more likely you may get a store-specific nonvisa/nonmastercard/nonamericanexpress card , or a card with a low limit ) . So if you want to take chances with your hard pulls , know what you are more likely to get instead of wasting a hard pull .
I would suggest you pay quarterly . Or , if you prefer , do the extra withholding . Do n't wait until the end of the year . My experience is that of having a day job with freelance work on the side . I 've spent a few years just freelancing , and I paid quarterly as requested to avoid the penalties . Now that I have a good day job again , my freelancing is just a small part of my income , and so I end up with a net return and no longer have to pay quarterly . You should n't wait until the end of the year to pay . This is assuming your wife is bringing in a decent income . The only scenario where you would want to wait is if her income is only a small amount ( such as my wife 's plans for an Etsy store ) . To the IRS , it does n't really make a difference whether you withhold extra or pay quarterly . Of those two choices , my preference is to pay quarterly - it 's easy to set up calendar reminders on the quarterly payment dates , which are always the same . I did the same as bstpierre when estimating my payments : just take last year 's tax ( for the business ) and divide by 4 ( adjusting for any obvious situational differences ) . That 's usually close enough . Paying quarterly instead of via withholding means you get to hold on to your money ( on average ) for 6 weeks longer . Granted , that does n't mean much with today 's interest rates , but it 's something . You may prefer the simpler accounting for withholding , though - you can " set and forget " .
If the employer included the reimbursement in the taxable wages portion of your w2 then you can take a deduction . This is most likely not the case . If the reimbursement is not included in your taxable wages then just leave the 1098 off your return . You are not entitled to any tax benefit because of it .
If you 're outside the US then etrade will direct you to the most appropriate portal for your location - e.g. , if I 'm in Australia , I have to sign up for an account through the Singapore portal . Whether taking out an account with etrade gets you access to US IPOs is another matter entirely . Foreigners can generally participate ( if and when your particular etrade portal is participating ) , but your residency is the least of your worries . The size and longevity of your account with a broker like etrade is much more important when they decide who gets in and who misses out .
Here is a link to the IRS Page on the adoption credit <URL> " To claim the credit or exclusion , complete Form 8839 ( PDF ) , Qualified Adoption Expenses , and attach the form to your Form 1040 ( PDF ) or Form 1040A ( PDF ) . You must attach one or more adoption related documents ( identified in the form instructions ) with the completed Form 8839 , and attach the Form 8839 to your Form 1040 or Form 1040NR . The required documents vary depending on whether the adoption is foreign or domestic , whether it becomes final in the tax year , and whether it is for a special-needs child . " here are the instructions <URL> " Documentation requirements . You must provide at least one of the documents described below to support your claim for each eligible child on line 1 . Attach the documents to Form 8839 and file with your income tax return . Copies are acceptable unless otherwise specified . You may redact sensitive personal information from an adoption order or decree or from a special needs determination ; however , the IRS may require you to provide an unredacted copy at a later date . " to determine if an original form is needed , you have to select from one of 5 types of adoptions .
I suspect @SpehroPefhany is correct and that your bank will cash a check from the US Department of the Treasury . Especially since they 're the same ones who guarantee the U.S. Dollar . They may hold the funds until the check clears , but I think you 'll have good luck going through your bank . Of course , fees and exchange rate are a factor . Consider browsing the IRS and US Treasury Department websites for suggestions/FAQs . I suggest you line up a way to cash it , and make sure there 's enough left after fees and exchange rate and postage to get the check that the whole process is worth it , all before you ask it to be shipped to you . If there 's no way to do it through your bank , through a money exchange business ( those at the airport come to mind ) or through your government ( postal bank ? ) , and the check is enough that you 're willing to go through some trouble , then you should look into assigning power of attorney for this purpose . I do n't know if it is possible , but it might be worth looking into . Look for US based banks in your area .
You must file as married for 2013 if you were married as of December 31 , 2013 . It is true that the Roth IRA contribution phaseout for Married Filing Separately is 0 - $ 10K . But you can still do backdoor Roth IRA contribution ( contribute to a Traditional IRA , then convert it to a Roth IRA ; assuming you do not have any pre-tax IRAs , this is identical to a Roth IRA contribution ) . But you already made a Roth IRA contribution for 2013 , and did not do the backdoor . Let 's assume that you want to turn it into a backdoor Roth IRA contribution , and that you do n't have any pre-tax IRAs . There are two ways to do this : Withdraw the Roth IRA you contributed ( including earnings ) . Then , do a normal backdoor Roth IRA contribution ( contribute to a Traditional IRA , then immediately convert it to Roth IRA ) . The earnings you had in the Roth IRA that you withdrew will be treated as normal income and taxed . The conversion will not be taxable because all of the Traditional IRA was non-deductible when you converted . Re-characterize your original Roth IRA contribution as a Traditional IRA contribution , then convert it to Roth IRA . It will be treated as if you made a Traditional IRA contribution originally , and then waited until now to convert . The earnings in the IRA up till now will be taxed on conversion . So in both cases , you will need to pay income tax on the earnings in the account up to now . The difference between the two is in the amount of money in the IRA now . With the first way , you can only contribute $ 5500 now . With the second way , you will keep the same amount of money you have in the IRA now .
It appears that there is some kind of a state-sponsored program in IL , not sure about the details . It is not a tax credit , though . Read about it at the <URL> . First-time homebuyers in Boone , Cook , DeKalb , Fulton , Kane , Marion , McHenry , St. Clair , Will or Winnebago counties can get $ 7,500 in down payment assistance with a competitive interest rate for a secure , 30-year fixed rate mortgage . 1STHomeIllinois is tailored for first-time homebuyers , Veterans , or anyone who has n't owned a home in the last three years living in one of the above 10 counties . The Federal tax credit was indeed only for 2008-2010 .
If both spousal units are US citizens , they have unlimited transfer ability , no gift tax issue .
No , you ca n't deduct expenses incurred in 2010 from 2009 income tax . Source : <URL> : " You can include only the medical and dental expenses you paid this year . " Sorry . :(
Could the individual [ directly ] use the credit cards for the down-payment ? No , not directly . Indirectly , either via Cash Advance or " Balance Transfer " to a bank account with a promotional rate could work , however you may have to show the money sitting in a bank account and ready to go before the loan will be approved , which means the money you took out on the credit cards will show up when they pull your credit ( unless you somehow timed it perfectly , and even if you did that you 'd be breaking the law by lying on the disclosure statement about your current debts . ) If he could , are there any negative consequences from doing so ( other than probable high monthly payments on the cards ) ? Definitely . Let 's assume we 're talking about the indirect method of cash advance or balance transfer , since that is actually possible . There are 3 things to compare : You have saved up enough money for a ( hopefully hefty ) down payment without taking out any additional loans . This is obviously ideal and should always be the goal . You do not have enough money for a down payment and simply do n't buy a house right now . You do not have enough money for a down payment , so you take out other loans so that you can buy a house right now . The main negative consequence of doing this is simply that you ca n't afford the house right now , but for some reason you are buying it anyway . I 'm not one to judge ; there are contrived reasons where this could be justified ( your trust fund comes due soon , your big inheritance is still locked up in probate , your guaranteed bonus is coming soon , etc ) , but in general , if you think you can pay off the CC debt in the near future , then you 're most likely better off waiting until you have the money cash in hand . Final thought : Most of the time the rate you pay on a non-mortgage loan will be higher than that of the mortgage , and furthermore mortgage interest is oftentimes tax deductible , so it would rarely ever make sense to shift would-be mortgage debt into another type of loan , down payment or otherwise .
You are not allowed to have any of your own dependents if you are a dependent ( or can possibly be claimed , even if not claimed ) on someone 's return . You can not claim any dependents if you ( or your spouse , if filing jointly ) could be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer . <URL> If you are considered to be a qualifying child of another tax payer , you are not allowed to claim the Earned Income credit . If you are a qualifying child of another taxpayer , you can not claim the EIC . This is true even if the person for whom you are a qualifying child does not claim the EIC or meet all of the rules to claim the EIC . Put " No " beside line 64a ( Form 1040 ) or line 38a ( Form 1040A ) . <URL> . In addition , the standard deduction that can be claimed is less than that for a single taxpayer that is not a dependent . The standard deduction for an individual who can be claimed as a dependent on another person 's tax return is generally limited to the greater of : $ 1,000 , or The individual 's earned income for the year plus $ 350 ( but not more than the regular standard deduction amount , generally $ 6,100 ) . However , if the individual is 65 or older or blind , the standard deduction may be higher . <URL>
end question
start question
Do stock prices really go down by the amount of the dividend ?
<URL> would be a study from the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and University of Minnesota if you want a source for some data . Abstract This study examines common stock prices around ex-dividend dates . Such price data usually contain a mixture of observations - some with and some without arbitrageurs and/or dividend capturers active . Our theory predicts such mixing will result in a nonlinear relation between percentage price drop and dividend yield - not the commonly assumed linear relation . This prediction and another important prediction of theory are supported empirically . In a variety of tests , marginal price drop is not significantly different from the dividend amount . Thus , over the last several decades , one-for-one marginal price drop have been an excellent ( average ) rule of thumb .
Prices and volatility for a commodity are driven by changes in supply and demand , more often the latter , since supplies are usually " fixed " in the short term . Oil is a particularly volatile commodity because it is genuinely critical to so many things , transportation , manufacturing , electric power , etc. . Because of this fact , it has numerous parties ( " agents , " in economic language ) monitoring available supplies . This includes whole governments , that sometimes build up strategic petroleum reserves . Because of the involvement of so many parties ( actual and potential ) , trading in oil is a " crowded " trade , which produces volatility . Imagine the back and forths of a bunch of people at a party in a crowded room .
The post 4PM session is also called extended trading , it 's an extension of that day . Ex dividend occurs when the date changes , not when the day session closes .
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
They do n't track checks at all . If you make a cash transaction for an amount that exceeds the reporting limit ( circa $ 10K ) , then a <URL> will be filed with the US Department of the Treasury ( not IRS , but close ) about it . This is to detect and prevent money laundering .
It could be a a way to preserve the value of your money , but depends upon various factors . If a country defaults , and it leads to hyper-inflation , by definition that means that money loses its purchasing power . In even simpler terms , it can not buy as much tomorrow as I could today . Therefore people can be incented to either hoard physical goods , or other non-perishable items . Real-estate may well be such an item . If you are resident in the country , you have to live somewhere . It is possible that a landlord might try to raise rent beyond what your job is willing to pay . Of course , in a house , you might have a similar situation with utilities like electricity ... Assuming some kind of re-stabilization of the economy and currency , even with several more zeros on the end , it is conceivable that the house would subsequently sell for an appropriately inflation adjusted amount , as other in-demand physical goods may . Lots of variables . Good Luck .
<URL> You must register for VAT with HM Revenue and Customs ( HMRC ) if your business ' VAT taxable turnover is more than # 82,000 . You can register voluntarily if it 's below this , unless everything you sell is exempt .
You do n't have to wait . If you sell your shares now , your gain can be considered a capital gain for income tax purposes . Unlike in the United States , Canada does not distinguish between short-term vs. long-term gains where you 'd pay different rates on each type of gain . Whether you buy and sell a stock within minutes or buy and sell over years , any gain you make on a stock can generally be considered a capital gain . I said generally because there is an exception : If you are deemed by CRA to be trading professionally -- that is , if you make a living buying and selling stocks frequently -- then you could be considered doing day trading as a business and have your gains instead taxed as regular income ( but you 'd also be able to claim additional deductions . ) Anyway , as long as your primary source of income is n't from trading , this is n't likely to be a problem . Here are some good articles on these subjects : Jamie Golombek 's National Post article : <URL> . Million Dollar Journey 's blog post : <URL> . The Canadian Tax Resource blog post : <URL> .
I found a page , <URL> , listing fuel taxes by province . Ontario 's gas prices already includes 14.7 cents per litre of provincial fuel tax , and comments noted " Additional taxes include 5 % GST . " For Nova Scotia and New Brunswick , where HST is in effect , comments noted " Additional taxes include 13 % HST . " That would seem to imply that if Ontario is introducing the HST , then there will be an additional 8 % added ( Ontario 's current PST ) to the price at the pump . I wanted definitive information , though , so I did a little more digging : First , I came across <URL> , at the Ontario Ministry of Revenue , confirming fuel tax of " 14.7 cents per litre of unleaded gasoline " . While it confirmed the fuel tax , it did n't mention GST or HST . Next I found <URL> , also from the Ontario MoR . That page lists goods &amp; services that wo n't be affected because they are already subject to both GST + PST , and then goes on to list those that will be affected since they are n't currently subject to PST . One item listed under " Change in Taxable Status " is gasoline : ... some goods and services that were not subject to the PST will be subject to the provincial portion ( eight per cent ) of the HST for the first time . ... Change in Taxable Status Electricity Gasoline Heating Fuels Internet Access Fees Personal Services ( e.g. , Hairstyling ) Professional Services ( e.g. , Legal , Accounting and Real Estate Fees and Commissions ) Tobacco So : I expect all-in fuel prices in Ontario to jump on July 1st , 2010 , when HST takes effect . Finally , here 's one more resource I came across : Petro Canada has a blog called <URL> with this post : <URL> ( March , 2009 ) . Relevant excerpt : ... Obviously there are many details yet to be released , so this is just for fun . If nothing were to change , simply adding the 8 % Ontario PST and applying it the same way as the GST is applied to today 's pump price in Ontario would add 6.6 cents in tax to a litre of gasoline . That means a pump price of about 92 cents per litre today in Toronto rather than 86 cents ... or about $ 2.64 more for that 40 litre fill-up . ...
I 'm a Betterment user ! You can see the details of the Stock and Bond portfolio on Betterment 's investment page : <URL> Also , once you have an account , you can see the exact number of shares you own in your account .
Good question ! It seems to me that there is no minimum order size for shares trading on the LSE . Please note , I could n't find an definite answer , but : According to the " International Order Book " document ( see : <URL> ) from the LSE ( page 7 ) : Question 7 : Would respondents support a revision of the minimum order size of 50 units ? Whilst there was limited support for a low value based minimum order size the majority of respondents requested its complete removal . This was incorporated into the September 2010 quarterly review as per Service Announcement 001/100910 and as from 20 September 2010 , the minimum order size in all IOB securities has been 1 unit Even though not all trading on the LSE is performed on this IOB system , it would be very wierd if the international stocks can be traded in any size , while domestic stocks will have an minimum size . Further , consider looking to the times and sales of various stocks ( here you can find an example <URL> ) . Those trades also suggest that there is no minimum order size ( for example , I just saw an executed trade with an size of 13 ) . At last , look at the Interactive Brokers ( no relationship with ) Exchange List at <URL> . Here you can click on various stock names , and in the popup window that opens , look for ' size parameters ' and the size increment . I could only find stocks with an size increment of 1 ( i.e. you can trade anything with a minimum of 1 stock , and more needs to be in steps of 1 stock ) . Even though I could n't find official information on the LSE site ( like a leaflet for beginners or such ) , it does seem to me that you can trade any size you want on LSE . Please note that mutual funds and illiquid OTC stocks which do n't have an continuous market can have different rules , so double-check with your broker .
Options reflect expectations about the underlying asset , and options are commonly priced using the Black-Scholes model : and are probability functions , is the spot ( current ) price of the asset , is the strike price , is the risk free rate , and represents time to maturity . Without getting into the mathematics , it suffices to say that higher volatility or expectation of volatility increases the perceived riskiness of the asset , so call options are priced lower and put options are priced higher . Think about it intuitively . If the stock is more likely to go downwards , then there 's an increased chance that the call option expires worthless , so call options must be priced lower to accommodate the relative change in expected value of the option . Puts are priced similarly , but they move inversely with respect to call option prices due to Put-Call parity . So if call option prices are falling , then put option prices are rising ( Note , however , that call prices falling does not cause put prices to rise . The inverse relationship exists because of changes in the underlying factors and how pricing works . ) So the option action signifies that the market believes the stock is headed lower ( in the given time frame ) . That does not mean it will go lower , and option traders assume risk whenever they take a particular position . Bottom line : got ta do your own homework ! Best of luck .
No ca n't make quick bucks . It depends very much on what the strike price was . Dividends which are below 10 % of the market value of the underlying stock , would be deemed to be ordinary dividends and no adjustment in the Strike Price would be made for ordinary dividends . For extra-ordinary dividends , above 10 % of the market value of the underlying security , the Strike Price would be adjusted . Refer more at <URL> Edit : The Nifty consists of <URL> . The largest one has weight of around 8 % . So 10 % on this will only translate to .8 % on index .
When you give your credit card number and authorize a merchant to charge your credit card , the merchant then gives the information to their merchant processor which in turns bills the bank that issued the card ( it 's a little more complex and it all happens instantly unless the merchant is using the very old fasion imprinting gizmos ) . It is possible for a merchant to attempt to charge you more than you authorized but if they do they risk a fine ( $ 25 - $ 50 for a chargeback ) from their processor , the legitimate portion of the charge as well as increasing the processing fees charged by their processor or even the possibility of loosing their merchant account entirely and being permanently blacklisted by Visa/Mastercard . In short no legitimate business is going to intentionally over charge your credit card . There really is n't significant risk in using a reputable online retailer 's order forms . There is the possibility that their database could be compromised but that risk is lower than the risk of having an employee steal your credit number when you give it to them in person . Besides in the US at least the most you can legally be held liable for is $ 50 assuming you notice the discrepancy within 60 days of statement the charge appears on and most banks limit liability to $ 0 . Over the years I have had a number of different credit card numbers stolen and used fraudulently and I have never had to pay any fraudulent charges .
Edit : What is a reasonable and/or customary time frame to allow them to keep a guest ? " Whats customary " - is relative to interpretation . So if you 're just trying to be nice I 'd say 10 days or two weeks is enough . In your state a guest at a lodge , motel , or hotel is defined as someone who stays for less then 31 days . " Permanent guest " , any person who rents and occupies a guest room in a lodging establishment for a period of thirty-one days or more ; Source - <URL> Additional information : If there is no agreement about guests , or who can occupy the property then you may be unable to force the tenant to restrict them from having a guest stay there . However here is some information that might help you gain leverage in the situation - <URL> If the guest is involved in criminal activity on the property you can then restrict the tenant from allowing that guest back on the property . Also if you have a " No Smoking " policy and the guest is a smoker you might also be able to use that as leverage . I suggest consulting a lawyer in your area for legal information . Some additional resources : <URL> - You might be able to get a more detailed answer from the forums here . <URL> - You can search Missouri Statues here .
When you buy a share of stock , you are almost always buying from someone who previously purchased that share and now wants to sell it . The money -- minus broker 's fee -- goes to that other investor , which may be a person , a company ( rarely the company that issued the stock , but that will occasionally be the case ) , an investment fund , the " market maker " for that stock ( websearch for definition of that term ) , or anyone else . They owned a small percentage of the company ; you bought it from them and gave them the money for it , just as you would buy anything else . You do n't know or care who you bought from ; they do n't know or care who they sold to ; the market just found a buyer and seller who could agree on the price . There are a very few exceptions to that . The company may repurchase some of its own shares and/or sell them again , depending on its own financial needs and obligations . For example , my own employer has to purchase its own shares periodically so it has enough on hand to sell to employees at a slight discount through the Employee Stock Ownership Program . But you generally do n't know that 's who you 're selling to ; it happens like any other transaction . And during the Initial Public Offering , if you 're lucky/privileged enough to get in on the first wave of purchases , you 're buying from the investment bank that 's managing this process ... though that 's an almost vanishingly rare case for " retail " investors like us ; we 're more likely to get the shares after someone has already pushed the price up a bit . But really , when you buy a share the money goes to whoever you bought it from , and that 's all you can know or need to know .
The key difference I 've found between a stock split and a stock dividend -- of the exact same stock and class , as opposed to a spin-off -- seems to be from the company 's own accounting perspective . There does n't appear to be any actual transfer of value to the shareholder with either kind of transaction ; i.e. in theory , each transaction would be immaterial to the value of your holdings . With respect to the company 's accounting , a stock split affects the par value of the shares , whereas a stock dividend reduces the retained earnings account in order to increase paid-in or contributed capital . I found a good online source which explains the history behind this accounting difference : <URL> . Small quote : [ ... ] Besides being based on fallacious reasoning , accounting for stock dividends by artificially reclassifying " earned " capital as " invested " capital conflicts with the reporting objective of reporting shareholders ' equity by source . Despite these limitations , this outdated accounting standard still applies . REASONS FOR STOCK DIVIDENDS . Since neither the corporation nor its shareholders apparently benefits from stock dividends , why do companies declare them ? 23 Occasionally , a company tries to give shareholders the illusion that they are receiving a real dividend . Another reason is merely to enable the corporation to take advantage of the accepted accounting practice of capitalizing retained earnings . Specifically , a company might wish to reduce an existing balance in retained earnings -- otherwise available for cash dividends -- so it can reinvest the earned assets represented by that balance without carrying a large balance in retained earnings . [ ... ] There 's a lot more on that page , before and after , worth reading . From another book : <URL> . Small quote : 5.6.2 . Stock dividends The distribution of dividends in the form of stock or " bonus " shares to existing shareholders typically involves a transfer for corporate law purposes of retained earnings into stated capital . It can been [ sic ] viewed as a deemed distribution of a cash dividend to the shareholders followed by a corresponding contribution to capital or as solely as an event at the corporate level which has no effect on the shareholders whose economic interest in the corporation is unchanged by the receipt of additional shares . The systems have taken varied approaches to the stock dividend problem . The treatment is in part a function of the rules dealing with distributions of stated capital . [ emphases above are mine ] [ ... continues w/descriptions of different countries ' tax treatments of the kinds of stock dividends . Includes U.S. , Sweden , Japan , Netherlands , Canada , Australia , U.K. , France , Germany . ... ] As far as why a corporation might want to capitalize earnings and reduce the equity otherwise available for dividends , I can only imagine that , ignoring taxes for a moment , that it may have something to do with capital ratios that need to be maintained for financing or regulatory purposes ? Yet , I remain curious . If I discover more on this then I 'll update my answer . Additional resources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
This is often the case where traders are closing out short positions they do n't want to hold overnight , for a variety of reasons that matter to them . Most frequently , this is from day traders or high-frequency traders settling their accounts before the markets close .
You do n't necessarily use this to approximate expenses . You use it to determine the maximum tax credit you could receive for work-related expenses under this part of the tax code . According to the examples listed on the page you linked ( look immediately below the passage you quoted ) , you first look up the maximum employment amount by year . For 2012 , it was $ 1,095 . Then , if your income falls below the maximum , you multiply the lowest tax rate by that amount . For example , $ 800 was employment income reported in 2012 . The income is below the maximum amount of 1,095 . $ 800 was claimed on line 363 in Schedule 1 as Canada employment amount . The tax credit was $ 120 calculated by multiplying the lowest federal tax rate of 15 % by the amount ( $ 800 ) . If your income was above the maximum amount , multiply the lowest marginal tax rate by the maximum amount , e.g. $ 35,000 was employment income reported in 2012 . The maximum amount of $ 1,095 was claimed on line 363 in Schedule 1 as Canada employment amount . The tax credit was $ 164.25 calculated by multiplying 15 % by $ 1,095 . The amount you calculate is the amount you 're allowed to claim on <URL> of your federal tax return .
In general , the goal of an S&amp;P 500 index fund is to replicate the performance of the S&amp;P 500 Index . To do this , the fund will buy the same stocks in the same proportions as the weighting of the Index . The S&amp;P 500 Index is free-float capitalization weighted . This means that the higher capitalization stocks ( based on publicly traded shares only ) are more heavily weighted and factor into the Index value more heavily than the smaller capitalization stocks , or the stocks that have a smaller publicly traded value . For example , companies like Apple , ExxonMobil , and Microsoft have a much larger weight in the index value than smaller companies . Alternatively , there are some S&amp;P index funds that are equal-weighted . In these funds , the managers have chosen to purchase all 500 of the stocks in the index , but in equal proportions instead of the weighted proportions of the index . These equal-weighted funds will not as closely match the index price as the traditionally weighted index funds . Instead , they might do better or worse than the index , depending on how the individual stocks do . You 'll need to look at the prospectus of the index funds you are interested in to see which approach the fund is taking .
end question
start question
Why are funds ' transaction costs 1 % of their portfolio turnover ?
Disclosure - I love Jack Bogle . Jack basically invented the index fund , and as a result , let the common investor have an opportunity to choose a long term return of ( S&amp;P -.05 % ) instead of losing nearly 2 % that many funds in that day charged . The use of index investing has saved investors many billions of dollars . The 1 % round trip , total cost to buy/sell , was common . Fees for trading have since dropped . I happen to use Schwab who charges $ 9 for a trade . On $ 100,000 , this is not .5 % ( $ 500 ) but less than .01 % . I think it 's safe to say that billion dollar mutual funds are paying even less for trades that I do . I believe Jack 's example here is a combination of old data and hyperbole . The cost is not so much for the trades , per se , but for the people managing the fund . An index fund has a manager of course , but it 's pretty much run by a computer .
No . You 're entitled to 1 % of votes at the shareholders ' meeting ( unless there 's class division between shareholders , that is ) . If more than 50 % of the shareholders vote to close the company , sell off its assets and distribute the proceeds to the owners - you 'll get 1 % share of the distributions .
You can find out the general types of investments by reading the public corporation 10-Q report that is filed with the SEC it can be accessed via the <URL> system . It will not tell you what securities they have , but it does identify the short term and long term investments categories and their value .
I think most financial planners or advisors would allocate zero to a gold-only fund . That 's probably the mainstream view . Metals investments have a lot of issues , more elaboration here : <URL> Also consider that metals ( and commodities , despite a recent drop ) are on a big run-up and lots of random people are saying they 're the thing to get in on . Usually this is a sign that you might want to wait a bit or at least buy gradually . The more mainstream way to go might be a commodities fund or all-asset fund . Some funds you could look at ( just examples , not recommendations ) might include several PIMCO funds including their commodity real return and all-asset ; Hussman Strategic Total Return ; diversified commodities index ETFs ; stuff like that has a lot of the theoretical benefits of gold but is n't as dependent on gold specifically . Another idea for you might be international bonds ( or stocks ) , if you feel US currency in particular is at risk . Oh , and REITs often come up as an inflation-resistant asset class . I personally use diversified funds rather than gold specifically , fwiw , mostly for the same reason I 'd buy a fund instead of individual stocks . 10 % - ish is probably about right to put into this kind of stuff , depending on your overall portfolio and goals . Pure commodities should probably be less than funds with some bonds , stocks , or REITs , because in principle commodities only track inflation over time , they do n't make money . The only way you make money on them is rebalancing out of them some when there 's a run up and back in when they 're down . So a portfolio with mostly commodities would suck long term . Some people feel gold 's virtue is tangibility rather than being a piece of paper , in an apocalypse-ish scenario , but if making that argument I think you need physical gold in your basement , not an ETF . Plus I 'd argue for guns , ammo , and food over gold in that scenario . :-)
Well , you can just say that 1 dollar contributed = one share and pay out dividends based on number of shares . That makes it pretty easy to make things fair based . There are pros and cons with this pooling approach . Pros Much lower collective trading costs . If the five of you banded together that would be 5 times the brokers fees . Some investments require you to have a minimum investment ; having 5x the money will likely expand your investment horizon . More heads thinking about things will improve your expected returns . Division of labor means you can each specialize in parts of the market . You get to learn about investing , and build a set of buddies you can go to for advice and opinions . Cons 1000 is not a lot of money -- I dropped that much into an IRA when I was in grad school . Tax complications ; you can only contribute earned money into an IRA , and they 'll frown upon everyone dumping money into one person 's account . So you 're forgoing tax advantages . Liquidity fights . Everyone is going to have different ideas of when to pull money out . Even if you write it down on a prospectus that nobody can withdraw money for 3 years , someone is gon na need the money to make rent or get tired of losing money and demand a withdrawl . Opportunity costs . A number of college aged students carry credit card debt , which will cost more than an equal amount invested in the market will earn . I do n't recommend this , but it stands to reason you could find friends carrying CC debt and loan them money at a cheaper rate to pay off the high interest CC with .
In Glencore 's situation they do not have the means to purchase the debt even at the lower valuation . As quoted in WSJ : But investors have become concerned about the high levels of debt Glencore 's trading arm needs to quickly buy , sell and move goods around the world . Its credit rating is two notches above junk status , and a downgrade would freeze it out of crucial capital . Once you hit junk status a lot of institutions will no longer lend and some other credit agreements might be locked out . with nearly $ 30 billion in debt ( Glencore ) , would need to dedicate excess earnings to repaying debt obligations , the analyst said . So basically they do not have earnings to purchase the debt back if they wanted to and since they are near junk status they wo n't be able to refinance as the terms to refinance would be worse than keeping the current debt . <URL> As for ' are there actual rules against doing so ' : There are not laws against refinancing most debt . However , I am sure a lawyer would know more about the actual legalities of the situation . The problem lies in people do n't loan money at good rates to people who need it .
All mutual funds are not created equal ; some invest in bonds while others in equities . Some highlight different sectors or have an international scope . Regardless of the mutual fund here are some general reasons why you might want to avoid them : They are expensive . Mutual funds regularly charge between 1-3 % in yearly fees . Sometimes even more . So that means if the fund increases in value by 5 % in one year and the annual fee is 3 % , you only net a 2 % increase . Another example , if the fund only increases by 1 % and the annual fee is 2 % , you 're actually losing 1 % of your money . Mutual funds are not priced continuously throughout the day . Unlike stocks , ETFs , and other securities that are priced constantly during the trading day , mutual funds are only priced once a day ( at the end of the day ) . This means that is impossible to day trade with mutual funds . Because of this , the investment time horizon must be longer than other securities that are constantly priced . There are alternatives ! ETFs ( exchange traded funds ) have become increasingly popular over the past decade . They are cheaper than mutual funds by sometimes a factor 10 . So a mutual fund may charge an annual fee of 3 % , while an ETF may only charge a 0.3 % annual fee . Like stocks , they are priced constantly during the trading day . This means that they can be used for day trading . For example , people used SPY ( tracks the S&amp;P 500 ) and GLD ( tracks the price of gold ) to easily bet on daily moves in price . ETFs also allow you to invest in commodities or currencies without having to transact in those markets directly . So to summarize , there is nothing wrong with mutual funds , but there are better alternatives . For the reasons listed above , I would try to investment in an ETF before a mutual fund ( given that they have similar investment characteristics ) . Here 's the section of the Wikipedia article on ETFs explaining their advantages : <URL>
Appreciation of a Capital Asset is a <URL> . In the United States , Capital Gains get favorable tax treatment after being held for 12 months . From the <URL> : Capital gains and losses are classified as long-term or short-term , depending on how long you hold the property before you sell it . If you hold it more than one year , your capital gain or loss is long-term . If you hold it one year or less , your capital gain or loss is short-term . The tax rates that apply to net capital gain are generally lower than the tax rates that apply to other income . For 2009 , the maximum capital gains rate for most people is15 % . For lower-income individuals , the rate may be 0 % on some or all of the net capital gain . Special types of net capital gain can be taxed at 25 % or 28 % . The IRS defines a Capital Asset as " most property you own " with a list of exclusions found in <URL> . None of the exclusions listed relate to Bond ETFs .
A tax like this means that you pay 75 % on the amount of your income over 1 million Euros . <URL> gives the current rates . So : Income Share Tax Rate Up to $ 6,011 0 % Between $ 6,012 - $ 11,991 5.5 % Between $ 11,992 - $ 26,631 14 % Between $ 26,632 - $ 71,397 30 % Between $ 71,398 - $ 151,200 41 % Above $ 151,200 45 % So if you are earning $ 1000001 , you would pay the same tax as someone earning $ 1000000 , plus an extra 75c . All income taxes work this way .
It is true that all else being equal , you will pay a lower amount of total interest by paying down your highest interest rate debts first . However , all else is not always equal . I 'm going to try to come up with some reasons why it might be better in some circumstances to pay your debts in a different order . And I 'll try to use as much math as possible . :) Let 's say that your goal is to eliminate all of your debt as fast as possible . The faster you do this , the lower the total interest that you will pay . Now , let 's consider the different methods that you could take to get there : You could pay the highest interest first , you could pay the lowest interest first , or you could pay something in the middle first . No matter which path you choose , the quicker you pay everything off , the lower total interest you will pay . In addition to that , the quicker you pay everything off , the difference in total interest paid between the most optimal method and the least optimal method will be less . To put this in mathematical notation : limt  0  Interest ( t ) = 0 Given that , anything we can do to speed up the time it takes to get to " debt free " is to our advantage . When paying large amounts of debt as fast as possible , sacrifice is needed . And this means that psychology comes into play . I do n't know about you , but for me , gamifying the system makes everything easier . ( After all , gamification is what gets us to write answers here on SE . ) One way to do this is to eliminate individual debts as quickly as possible . For example , let 's say that I 've got 10 debts . 5 of them are for $ 1k each . 3 of them are for $ 5k each , 1 is a $ 20k car loan , and 1 is a $ 100k mortgage . Each one has a monthly payment . Let 's say that I 've got $ 3k sitting in the bank that I want to use to kickstart my debt reduction . I could pay all $ 3k toward one of my larger loans , or I could immediately pay off 3 of my 10 loans . Ignore interest for the moment , and let 's say that we are going to pay off the smallest loans first . When I eliminate these three loans , three of my monthly payments are also gone . Now let 's say that with the money I was paying toward these eliminated debts , and some other money I was able to scrape together $ 500 a month that I want to use toward debt reduction . In four months , I 've eliminated the last two $ 1k debts , and I 'm down to 5 debts instead of 10 . Achievement Unlocked ! Instead of this strategy , I could have paid toward my largest interest rate . Let 's say that was one of the $ 5k loans . I paid the $ 3k toward the bank to it , and because I still had all the monthly payments after that , I was only able to scrape together $ 400 a month extra toward debt reduction . In four months , I still have 10 debts . Now let 's say that after these four months , I have a bad month , and some unexpected expenses come up . If I 've eliminated 5 of my debts , my monthly payments are less , and I 'll have an easier month then I would have had if I still had 10 monthly payments to deal with . Each time I eliminate a debt , the amount extra I have each month to tackle the remaining debts gets bigger . And if your goal is eliminating debt quickly , these early wins can really help motivate you on . It really feels like you are getting somewhere when your monthly bills go down . It also helps you with the debt free mindset . You start to see a future where you are n't sending payments to the banks each month . This method of paying your smaller debts first has been popularized in recent years by Dave Ramsey , and he calls it the debt snowball method . There might be other reasons why you would pick one debt over another to pay first . For example , let 's say that one of your loans is with a bank that has terrible customer service . They do n't send you bills on time , they process your payment late , their website stinks , they are a constant source of stress , and you are getting sick of them . That would be a great reason to pay that debt first , and never set foot in that bank again . In conclusion : If you have a constant amount of extra cash each month that you are going to use to reduce your debt , and this will never change , then , yes , you will save money over the long run by paying the highest interest debt first . However , if you are trying to eliminate your debt as fast as possible , and you are sacrificing in your budget , sending every extra penny you can scrape together toward debt reduction , the " snowball " method of knocking out the small debts first can help motivate you to continue to sacrifice toward your goal , and can also ease the cash flow situation in difficult months when you find yourself with less extra to send in .
One of the reasons , apart from historical , is that different people have different tax liabilities which the employer may not be aware of . For example , in the US we do n't pay taxes in source on investment income , and there are many credits and deductions that we ca n't take . So if I have a child and some interest income from my savings account - employer 's withholding will not match my actual tax liability . There are credits for children , additional taxes for the interest , and the actual tax brackets vary based on my marital status and filing options I chose . So even the same family of two people married will pay different amounts in taxes if they chose to file separate tax returns for each , than if they chose to file jointly on one tax return . For anyone who 've lived anywhere else , like you and me , this system is ridiculously complex and inefficient , but for Americans - that works . Mainly for the reason of not knowing anything better , and more importantly - not wanting to know .
My experience is with Carnival Cruise lines . It may be different on other lines . The two biggest things that will run up your tab are drinks and shore excursions . Drinks : Expect to pay $ 2 - $ 4 for a beer or coke , and $ 7 - $ 12 for a mixed drink . You can often buy a " Fountain card " or something like that that is a fixed price for sodas throughout the cruise . Probably a good deal if you are a big soda drinker or are with kids . You get juice , iced tea and water at no charge . Oh yeah , and they add an automatic tip on every drink . I 'm sure you could ask them to take the tip off , but you 'd look like a tool for doing it considering the ( mostly ) Phillipinos who serve you drinks are probably working 16 hour days for peanuts . Shore Excursions : These can really add up . You could easily double the price of your cruise if you do a lot of the higher end ones . You can usually save a ton of money by not booking them through the cruise ship and just pre-arranging them through the internet or booking them at the kiosks that are inevitably right next to the dock at each port . The cruise director will tell you all sorts of scary stories to dissuade you from doing this , but it is mostly bunk . Often the cruise ship goes through the exact same tour companies and they add as much as a 2-3x markup . The Fancy Dining option : There is usually a high-end restaurant that you need reservations for and charges a $ 25 - $ 30/person . I never bother with them . The regular dining options are good enough for me . But if you are a surf &amp; turf aficionado you might want to budget for that . Internet is super expensive , around 70 cents a minute if I recall . You can buy bulk minutes , but it is n't that much cheaper . You are better off just bringing a laptop or smartphone and using them in ports . I had no trouble finding free wifi at most ports . Cell Phone : Danger Will Robinson ! Your cell phone will work on-board , but be prepared for a huge bill when you get back . I STRONGLY suggest turning off your phone on board or at least disabling the ability to receive calls and text messages . You can passively run up a bill that way . Tips : This is one thing I like about cruises . They just add about $ 10/day/person to your bill for tips and there is an option at the end of the cruise to add to that tip for the room steward , maitre 'd , etc. . There is absolutely no pressure at all to add to that tip , i.e. there is no one standing with their palm out . I never minded tipping for service , I always just hated having to carry cash around to do it . They make this process very easy on board . You really do n't need to have cash on board at all . Bottom Line : I tend to buy at least a few drinks/day and find my own shore excursions . With a few souvenirs thrown in here and there I typically spend about 50 % of the cruise price in extras per person .
Transactions are processed in batches because there 's multiple parties involved . There are two main steps : Authorization - that is what triggers the hold . The merchant through his own merchant account provider contacts the issuer of the card to ask whether the issuer would accept the transaction had it been submitted at that time . If the issuer would - the issuer gives an authorization code to the merchant , which is typically valid for 7-30 days ( depending on the type of the expected transaction ) . As long as the code is valid , the issuer would put a hold on the account in that amount to cover for the expected transaction . This is more of a " smoke test " for the merchant that the card is not stolen/canceled , that it is not over the limit , and that it is likely to be OK to accept it . Transaction - that 's the longer process and is usually not done online but rather in batch , typically nightly . The only thing happening right away ( even that not always ) would be the merchant recording the transaction and the authorization code . Once the transaction is processed by the merchant , it will then be submitted to the merchant account processor . This is done in batches , usually daily . The processor then credits the merchant account ( balancing all the refunds , chargebacks , ect ) . The processor then aggregates all the transactions and balances out its own cards ( if the processor is also an issuer ) . The transactions using cards issued by others are then submitted to the network ( Visa/Mastercard/etc ) . The network , in another batch , then balances out all the transactions for the processor ( balancing the amounts the processor is owed due to others ' cards being used in its merchants with what the processor owes for its cards being used with other processors ) . The network then distributes the transactions to the issuers to charge the accounts , which is also done in a batch - yet another . The issuers then accept that information and post the transactions to the respective accounts . When posting , the issuers match the authorization code recorded with the transaction to the authorization code attached to the hold , and remove the hold if there 's a match . Sometimes the merchant get authorization but do n't attach it to the transaction , and then you may end up with the transaction posted by the hold not removed automatically . As you can see , this is a multi-step process with multiple parties involved . Since at this stage money is actually changing hands - it can not be done online per transaction , since the volume would be enormous . It is done in batches , with only the aggregate balances moving around .
One common type of account is called a <URL> account . Under this type of account , the money is held in the child 's name for tax purposes , but the account is under control of a custodian until the child reaches a legal age . When you set up the account , the amount you put in is considered a gift to the child . The first consideration is the gift tax , which is paid by the giver . You can give him up to $ 14,000 per year and not have to pay any gift tax on the gift . Above that amount in a year , and there are lifetime exclusions that apply to avoid the tax . Your nephew , as the gift recipient , never has to pay income/gift tax on the gift . Any mutual fund company should be able to set up a UTMA account . They will need the child 's Social Security number , because the funds will belong to him , and he will be receiving tax statements each year on the earnings . You also need to identify the custodian . You could name yourself as the custodian , or you may want to select one of the child 's parents . The custodian has complete control of the funds , but is legally required to manage the money in the child 's interest . The custodian may choose to continue to invest , or may choose to withdraw the money to pay for something for the child ( college tuition , for example ) . Once the child reaches the age of majority , the money is completely under his control for any purpose . He could spend it on college , on rent , or he could put it all on red at the roulette table . The age of majority varies in each state , but in Washington State ( where I see from your profile that you are located ) , the age is generally 21 . The child is the owner of the fund for tax purposes . Depending on how much you give him and how much it earns , he might need to <URL> . If he earns enough , he 'll be subject to the <URL> , which means that his investment income above a certain amount will be taxed at his parents ' tax rate . You 'll want to make a note of the value of the mutual funds when you bought them , because <URL> for capital gains tax purposes when he sells the funds . ( The gift does not reset the cost basis . ) One other consideration that should be mentioned is that , because the money is in the child 's name , it can count against him for need-based financial aid purposes . Other types of accounts , such as the 529 plans , have tax benefits that the UTMA does not , but they generally require that the money be spent on college .
<URL> has a largest variety of mutual fund offerings , mostly no-fee , and is a discount brokerage . <URL> offers no-fee and loaded funds . Since the question mentioned this , note that Morningstar selected Fidelity funds as three of their <URL> ( in a fixed-income category maybe ? I do n't recall ) . This was just announced a few days ago . Vanguard is good too , certainly for index funds . However , Schwab or Fidelity are better if you 're interested in funds with higher-risk profiles . Consider E * Trade , for mutual funds and ETF 's . There 's a little variation , but as of today , <URL> ! EDIT Merrill is your broker . I assume you have a fee-based account . If you pay fees , you should get the widest range of fund alternatives to pick from ! That is puzzling . I ca n't imagine why a full-service broker would have a smaller selection of funds than Schwab or Fidelity . A full-service broker should also be able to offer you specialty funds , e.g. those with higher risk , as you expressed an interest in , more easily .
Short answer That ratio is a decent approximation of the market cap distribution in VTSMX , although it 's not perfect because the two funds you have access to , VIIIX and VIEIX , overlap somewhat in their holdings . The S&amp;P 500 and the completion index do n't . Using the S&amp;P 500 and the completion index as relative weights gives you ( 14.7 +3.4 ) / 14.7 = 81.2 % and 1-0 .812 = 18.8 % for VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively . We can verify that this is close to the best allocation using either of the two methods below . Based on that , it 's safe to say that an allocation of 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX should replicate VTSMX pretty well . Remember that because of expense ratios ( among other factors ) , the returns to your replicated portfolio may not match the returns to the target portfolio exactly . Long answer According to Morningstar , <URL> has the market cap distribution shown in the first column . Morningstar places VTSMX in the Large Blend category , so the category averages in the right-hand column are for that category . The benchmark index is the <URL> . <URL> and <URL> have these distributions : We want to find allocations for VIIIX and VIEIX , i.e. two percentages that sum to 1 , that give us a portfolio with a market cap distribution as close to that of VTSMX as possible . There are several methods that would work for this ; both return the same solution : Method 1 : Goal-seeking in Excel Using the goal-seek feature of Excel , I found that allocating 80.5712423979149 % of your portfolio to VIIIX and the remainder ( 19.4287576 % ) to VIEX yields this distribution ( shown in the " replicated " column ) , which is pretty close . The second data column is VTSMX , the fund you 're trying to replicate . This gives me the allocation of approximately 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX that I listed in the short answer above . The percent error , which is calculated as the absolute value of the difference between the allocations divided by the allocation in VTSMX , increases as market capitalization decreases , but that should n't bother you . Since allocation decreases as market cap decreases , even though the error grows as market cap decreases , that error represents an increasingly small amount of the fund 's actual value . This is n't a perfect system , because I 'm abusing the notion of " weighted percent errors " a little here , but hopefully the idea is clear . Method 2 : Matrices In this specific case , matrices provide a much more robust , and arguably logical , strategy . From a mathematical perspective , this is the problem we 're trying to solve : where and are the percentage allocations of VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively , that you want in your 401K portfolio . At first glance , it looks like you can simply solve the last equation for and substitute that value into any of the first four equations to solve for ; unfortunately , if you try this strategy with the fourth equation , you get a value of , but if you try this with the third equation , you get . If you try using the value of that came from the fourth equation in any of the other equations ( besides the fifth one , in which it does n't matter ) you 'll find it wo n't work . The same goes for the that came from the third equation , or the second , or the first . It seems we have a problem . All is not lost , however . If you 've ever taken an algebra course , you can see that the system of equations above looks like this matrix equation : I labeled the numerical matrix on the left-hand side of the equation to save space . The linear algebra theory probably is n't exciting to everyone as it is to me , so I 'll keep it short . Since is a 5x2 matrix with <URL> 2 , it therefore has a <URL> , which we can calculate like this : With our left-inverse in hand , we can quickly find the solution to the matrix equation like this : which gives us the same solution that we found with Excel . It 's also important to understand that this is the " best " solution to the problem ; in other words , we have found the weights of VIIIX and VIEIX that replicates the market cap distribution of VTSMX as closely as possible . If you 've ever taken a statistics or econometrics course , you might recognize the calculation and application of the left-inverse as the <URL> estimation of the weights ; that means that in this case , " closest " implies that the weights we found minimize the sum of the squares of the differences ( " errors " or " residuals " ) between our replicated portfolio and VTSMX . While the matrix/OLS method seems more complicated , I include it because it may be much quicker computationally than using Excel if you attempt to replicate a portfolio using more than two funds . The matrix/OLS method also scales very well in situations where more than two funds are used in the replication . Also , in this case , we had the relative weights of the S&amp;P 500 and the Completion Index to use as guides , but once we start adding more funds with potentially more overlapping holdings between them , calculating a simple ratio may not work
If you want your bank to pay $ 1 to a beneficiary Bob , then the service ( no matter how implemented ) needs to result in Bob 's bank saying to Bob " Hey , I owe you $ 1 " . The usual way how this is done consists of two parts - your bank needs to somehow tell Bob 's bank " hey guys , do us a favor and please give Bob $ 1 with a message from the sender " , and your bank needs to convince the other bank that they 'll pay for ( cover ) that . This is the main source for the delays in international payments - there are thousands of banks , and most of possible pairs have no legal contact between themselves whatsoever , no bilateral agreements , no trust and no reasonable enforcement mechanism for small claims . If I 'm Bob 's bank , then a random bank from anywhere from Switzerland to Nigeria can send me an instruction " give Bob $ 1 , we 'll make it up for you " , the SWIFT network is a common way of doing this . However , most likely I 'm going to give Bob the money only after I receive the funds somehow , which means that they have given the money to some institution I work with . For payments within a single country , it often is a centralized exchange or a central bank , and the payment speed is then determined by the details of that particular single payment network - e.g. UK Faster Payments or the various systems used in USA . For international payments , it may require a chain of multiple intermediaries ( correspondent banks ) - for example , a payment of $ 1mm from Kazakhstan to China will likely involve the Kazakhstan bank asking their main correspondent in USA ( some major bank such as Chase JPMorgan ) to give the money to the relevant chinese bank 's correspondent in USA ( say , Citi ) to then give the money to that chinese bank to then give the money to the actual recipient . Each of those steps can happen because those entities have bilateral agreements , trust and accounts with each other ; and each of those steps generally takes time and verification . If you want all payments to happen instantly , then you need all institutions to join a single binding payment system . It 's not as easy as it sounds , as it is a nightmare of jurisdiction - for example , if you 'd want me ( as Bob 's bank ) to credit Bob instantly , then the system needs to provide solid guarantees that I would get paid even if ( a ) the payer institution changes its mind , made a mistake or intentional fraud ; ( b ) the payer institution goes insolvent ; ( c ) the system provider gets insolvent . Providing such guarantees is expensive , they need to be backed by multi-billion capital , and they 're unrealistic to enforce across jurisdictions ( e.g. would an Iranian bank get recourse if some funds got blocked because of USA sanctions ) . The biggest such project as far as I know is SEPA , across most of Europe . Visa and MasterCard networks perform the same function - a merchant gets paid by the CC network even if the payer ca n't pay his CC bill or the paying bank goes insolvent .
Googling led me to <URL> which has detailed breakdowns of the Target Retirement funds ; that page in turn has a link to <URL> which goes into a good level of detail on the construction of these funds ' portfolios . I excerpt : ( To the question of why so much weight in equities :) In our view , two important considerations justify an expectation of an equity risk premium . The first is the historical record : In the past , and in many countries , stock market investors have been rewarded with such a premium . ... Historically , bond returns have lagged equity returns by about 5 -- 6 percentage points , annualized -- amounting to an enormous return differential in most circumstances over longer time periods . Consequently , retirement savers investing only in " safe " assets must dramatically increase their savings rates to compensate for the lower expected returns those investments offer . ... The second strategic principle underlying our glidepath construction -- that younger investors are better able to withstand risk -- recognizes that an individual 's total net worth consists of both their current financial holdings and their future work earnings . For younger individuals , the majority of their ultimate retirement wealth is in the form of what they will earn in the future , or their " human capital . " Therefore , a large commitment to stocks in a younger person 's portfolio may be appropriate to balance and diversify risk exposure to work-related earnings ( To the question of how the exact allocations were decided :) As part of the process of evaluating and identifying an appropriate glide path given this theoretical framework , we ran various financial simulations using the Vanguard Capital Markets Model . We examined different risk-reward scenarios and the potential implications of different glide paths and TDF approaches . The PDF is highly readable , I would say , and includes references to quant articles , for those that like that sort of thing .
The reason they want the transaction to go through is because they make money that way . Remember the overdraft protection might incur a fee . If it does their experience may show them that the fee is a greater source of profit when balanced against the losses incurred because of insufficient funds . Even free overdraft transactions are limited . If they did n't want to make money they would have a way to make sure that multiple overdrafts in a short time window would n't require multiple protection events . Remember each time they transfer funds they only bring you to zero . As it is now the coffee you buy after putting money on your subway fare card might also trigger an overdraft transfer .
Prices and volatility for a commodity are driven by changes in supply and demand , more often the latter , since supplies are usually " fixed " in the short term . Oil is a particularly volatile commodity because it is genuinely critical to so many things , transportation , manufacturing , electric power , etc. . Because of this fact , it has numerous parties ( " agents , " in economic language ) monitoring available supplies . This includes whole governments , that sometimes build up strategic petroleum reserves . Because of the involvement of so many parties ( actual and potential ) , trading in oil is a " crowded " trade , which produces volatility . Imagine the back and forths of a bunch of people at a party in a crowded room .
end question
start question
If a country can just print money , is global debt between countries real ?
The debt is absolutely real . China loans money to US via buying the US treasury bonds . The bond is essentially a promise to pay back the money with interest , just like a loan . As you point out , the US can print money . If this were to happen , then the USD that the owner of a treasury bond receives when the bond matures are worth less that than the USD used to purchase the bonds . There are lots of reasons why the US does n't want to print lots of money , so the purchaser of the bond is probably confident it wo n't happen . If for some reason they think it is possible , then they will want to cover that risk by only purchasing bonds that have a higher interest rate . The higher interest offsets the risk of the USD being worth less . Of course , there are lots more details , e.g. , the bonds themselves are bought and sold before maturity , but this is the basic idea .
The problem might be that by contacting the sales people you make them your agents . By mere requesting information you may inadvertently establish client-agent relationship . Once you 've established it - you can not bring another agent . I believe it depends on jurisdictions and local rules , but I was aware of something like that being a problem here in California . Here 's an article from a real-estate agent in New York explaining the <URL> . Here 's also a <URL> .
Usually when the government defaults , the currency gets devalued . So as a debtor , that 's a good thing -- your debt gets devalued . The " catch " is that your income and buying power is also devalued . So unless you happen to own the type of assets that become more valuable during those circumstances ( real property , farms , utilities , certain industrial things , etc ) you 're looking at tough times ahead .
If you believe you can time the crash , then " invest " in cash keep a good credit rating and buy some property just after the crash that cashflows well enough to pay the mortgage for a long time We all know what comes after a crash ... just as we know what comes after the doom , we just do n't know when ... .
According to the <URL> : any consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report [ ... ] to a person which it has reason to believe [ ... ] intends to use the information in connection with a credit transaction involving the consumer on whom the information is to be furnished and involving the extension of credit to , or review or collection of an account of , the consumer See p12 ( section 604 ) . The usual interpretation of this that I 've heard is that a debt collection agency that owns or has been assigned a debt can make hard pulls on your credit report without your consent . <URL> seems to support that ( and references the same part of the act , among others ) : According to the Fair Credit Reporting Act , [ ... ] , any business can access your credit history without your permission provided the business has a valid " permissible purpose . " The FCRA notes that one such permissible purpose is to review your credit information in connection with the collection of a debt . Thus , if you owe money to a debt collector , the debt collector has the legal right to pull and review your credit report . If they have n't been assigned the debt or own it outright , I believe you have a legal right to dispute it . Consult a lawyer if this is actually a situation you face . Once use for this is if the debt collection agency has trouble locating you ; since your credit report normally contains current and past addresses , this is one way to locate you .
Unsecured debt , like credit card debt , will be paid by the estate . If not enough money exists in the estate ( including selling property/etc . ) to satisfy the debts , then the debt will be cancelled - it is not continued on to the heirs/etc . However , if you have a joint card ( with a spouse , parent , child , etc. ) , both holders of that card may be separately liable - meaning if one dies , the other will be liable for the debt if the first 's estate does n't pay it off . As far as if a charge posts after the death - likely depends on if it was fraudulently used . If the person owning the card made the purchase and timing just was off , then it 'll be just as if they paid beforehand . But , if the creditor can prove that someone else authorized the charge other than the decedent/cardholder , then that is a fraudulent act and could be met with criminal penalties as well as a civil lawsuit . See <URL> for more information .
His investment in the home country would be affected by the home country inflation rates , since it probably would be made in his home currency ( let 's call it H$ ) - so if he invested 1000 H$ 10 years ago and now has 2000 H$ , he may be able to buy less for these money ( in his home country ) than before . Also he may be influenced by the exchange rate - i.e. how many H$ one gets for his US$ , since I assume he is paid in US$ , but in his home country he would probably invest in H$ . If inflation is high in his home country , his assets in H$ may depreciate quickly and cost less than if he kept them in US$ . But this rate is affected by both inflation rates , and exchange rates can be influenced by other factors too .
Look for people who have done business with them . If you do n't know anyone who has used their services , look for a company that at least has a brick and mortar branch in your area . Being able to deal with them face to face is a must . Have you checked with your local bank ?
It is true that operation profit comes from gross profit however it is possible for a company to have negative net profit yet have postive cash flow , it has to do with the accounting practice A possible example is that a company has extremely high depreciation expense of fixed asset hence net profit will be negative but cash flow will be positive . Assuming the fixed asset has been fully paid for in earlier years
Debt collectors are required to validate the debt and send you verification within five days of their initial communication with you . The <URL> ( FDCPA ) , section 809 ( Validation of Debts ) , subsection a ) lays this out clearly : a ) Within five days after the initial communication with a consumer in connection with the collection of any debt , a debt collector shall , unless the following information is contained in the initial communication or the consumer has paid the debt , send the consumer a written notice containing : the amount of the debt the name of the creditor to whom the debt is owed a statement that unless the consumer , within thirty days after receipt of the notice , disputes the validity of the debt , or any portion thereof , the debt will be assumed to be valid by the debt collector a statement that if the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing within the thirty-day period that the debt , or any portion thereof , is disputed , the debt collector will obtain verification of the debt or a copy of a judgment against the consumer and a copy of such verification or judgment will be mailed to the consumer by the debt collector a statement that , upon the consumer 's written request within the thirty-day period , the debt collector will provide the consumer with the name and address of the original creditor , if different from the current creditor . However , if you notify them in writing to dispute the debt , the debt collector has to stop collection of the debt and send you written verification of it ( which they already should have anyway ) . Per the act : b ) If the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing within the thirty-day period described in subsection ( a ) that the debt ... is disputed , or that the consumer requests the name and address of the original creditor , the debt collector shall cease collection of the debt ... until the debt collector obtains verification of the debt or any copy of a judgment , or the name and address of the original creditor , and a copy of such verification or judgment , or name and address of the original creditor , is mailed to the consumer by the debt collector . c ) The failure of a consumer to dispute the validity of a debt under this section may not be construed by any court as an admission of liability by the consumer . As for debt collectors that do n't follow the act , <URL> ( Civil Liability ) , lays out the consequences clearly . I wo n't quote it because it 's a little long , but it 's important to realize that per the title , these are civil penalties . That means they normally require a suit to be filed against the debt collector ; if you read this section of the act , you can readily see that the penalties will occur as the result of civil legal action . In short , yes , the debt collector is required to send you verification within a short time period after initially informing you . If they do n't , you need to talk to a lawyer if you feel civil action is the best recourse . Since I 'm not a lawyer , I ca n't , and do n't , pretend to provide any meaningful legal advice . Side note : I should add that one <URL> of the FDCPA is that it limits the civil penalties the court can award an individual , above and beyond the damages caused by the debt collection agency , to $ 1,000 . The act was passed in 1977 , so inflation has reduced the real amount and purchasing power of that award .
Stop order is shorter term for stop-loss order . The point being that is intended as a protective measure . A buy stop order would be used to limit losses when an investor has sold a stock short . ( Meaning that they have borrowed stock and sold it , in hopes that they can take advantage of a decline in the stock 's price by replacing the borrowed stock later at a cheaper price . The idea is to limit losses due to a rising stock price . ) Meanwhile , a sell stop order would be used to limit losses on a stock that an investor actually owns , by selling it before the price declines further . The important thing to keep in mind about stop orders is that they turn into market orders when the stop price is reached . This means that they will be filled at the best available price when the order is actually executed . In fast moving markets , this can be a price that is quite different from the stop price . A limit order allows an investor to ensure that they do not buy/sell a stock at more/less than the specified amount . The thing to keep in mind is that a limit order is not guaranteed to execute . A stop-limit order is a combination of a stop-loss order and limit order , in that it becomes a limit order ( instead of a market order ) when the stop price is reached . Links to definitions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
No , because you did n't lose anything . When you exercise ISO " at loss " you 're buying stock without a discount , that 's it .
Here is another way to look at it . Does this debt enable you to buy more car than you can really afford , or more car than you need ? If so , it 's bad debt . Let 's say you do n't have the price of a new car , but you can buy a used car with the cash you have . You will have to repair the car occasionally , but this is generally a lot less than the payments on a new car . The value of your time may make sitting around waiting while your car is repaired very expensive ( if , like me , you can earn money in fine grained amounts anywhere between 0 and 80 hours a week , and you do n't get paid when you 're at the mechanic 's ) in which case it 's possible to argue that buying the new car saves you money overall . Debt incurred to save money overall can be good : compare your interest payments to the money you save . If you 're ahead , great - and the fun or joy or showoff potential of your new car is simply gravy . Now let 's say you can afford a $ 10,000 car cash - there are new cars out there at this price - but you want a $ 30,000 car and you can afford the payments on it . If there was no such thing as borrowing you would n't be able to get the larger/flashier car , and some people suggest that this is bad debt because it is helping you to waste your money . You may be getting some benefit ( such as being able to get to a job that 's not served by public transit , or being able to buy a cheaper house that is further from your job , or saving time every day ) from the first $ 10,000 of expense , but the remaining $ 20,000 is purely for fun or for showing off and should n't be spent . Certainly not by getting into debt . Well , that 's a philosophical position , and it 's one that may well lead to a secure retirement . Think about that and you may decide not to borrow and to buy the cheaper car . Finally , let 's say the cash you have on hand is enough to pay for the car you want , and you 're just trying to decide whether you should take their cheap loan or not . Generally , if you do n't take the cheap loan you can push the price down . So before you decide that you can earn more interest elsewhere than you 're paying here , make sure you 're not paying $ 500 more for the car than you need to . Since your loan is from a bank rather than the car dealership , this may not apply . In addition to the money your cash could earn , consider also liquidity . If you need to repair something on your house , or deal with other emergency expenditures , and your money is all locked up in your car , you may have to borrow at a much higher rate ( as much as 20 % if you go to credit cards and ca n't get it paid off the same month ) which will wipe out all this careful math about how you should just buy the car and not pay that 1.5 % interest . More important than whether you borrow or not is not buying too much car . If the loan is letting you talk yourself into the more expensive car , I 'd say it 's a bad thing . Otherwise , it probably is n't .
Life Insurance is valid anywhere in the world irrespective of where you stay or where you die . Medical insurance on the other hand is bound by geography . IE general medical policies issued in India are valid only within India for treatment . So you can develop the condition anywhere , but you need to be treated in India in order to get cover under the policy . This is because the premium charged is less as the medical expenses in India are less say compared to US or Europe . Hence if you are travelling outside India you need to take a seperate Overseas Travel Insurance that covers ; - Medical Cover - Loss of Luggage due to Transit - Delayed flights etc So the policy is in effect from the time you cross Indian Immegration . It is irrespective of the mode of travel . I do not think in India we have a regular Travel Insurance for domestic travel .
" It 's more complicated than that . " Governments raise money in a number of ways . First , they tax economic activity within their borders and for connected companies and individuals . Then , some governments have actual revenues from state-owned enterprises ( licences , patents , courts , business revenues , and so on ) . Whatever shortage arises between state expenditure and this income is the deficit which is usually financed through debt . Government usually issues a bond ( <URL> ) of various types , some with extremely lengthy maturation dates . These bonds can be purchased both locally and by foreign investment funds . The nature of who buys is important . From the Wikipedia link you 'll see that most government debt is very highly rated based on the ability of the state to simply raise taxes in order to fund redemption . Pension funds are legally bound to only invest in highly-rated investment classes and the bulk of bonds may be purchased to support local pensioners . A state that defaults on debt will first hit its own most vulnerable citizens . In addition , the fall-out will result in a savage cut in ratings . Countries like Argentina and Zimbabwe , which have both refused to repay their debts even to the IMF , are currently unable to raise investment at all . This has a tremendous impact on local economic development . So , default is out of the question without severe penalties . The second part of your question is about paying down the debt . As debts increase , more and more of the revenue that a country does earn is spent on servicing debt repayments . Sometimes bonds are issued merely to refinance old debt . A country that spends too much on refinancing debt is no different from an individual . Less and less money is available to do other things . In conclusion : governments can neither default nor binge-borrow unless they wish to severely limit economic opportunities for their citizens .
In the academic sense , an annuity is payable annually for a term of years and a perpetuity is payable annually forever . An annuity has an end date and a perpetuity does not . Many commonly seen annuities are structured to pay until death of the recipient , which for the issuer can be averaged and anticipated using actuarial tables ( i.e. the anticipated average number of years for the aggregate is known , even though individual payees may live longer or shorter lives ) . This is still analyzed as an annuity for a term of years . An annuity may be payable upon retirement , but there 's no financial reason you could n't delay a perpetuity by a term of years . You 'd value it as a perpetuity , but discount it for the future value based on the retirement date . I do n't believe anybody does this currently . You could also index a perpetuity , but of course that would raise its cost to purchase at the front end . Tax treatment of annuities can be favorable to the extent that insurance rules are more favorable than one might expect . But the payment of interest is generally ordinary income under IRC  61 , whether it is payable every year or for a term of years . The last difference you list is the actual rule . Perpetuities are payable forever , so do not cease with death . An annuity that ceases with death is payable only for a term of years ( even though the term may not be known ahead of time for any individual annuitant ) . A perpetuity continues paying , so it 's just a stream of income . Of course , perpetuities could be called back by the issuer in exchange for some value ( possibly a cash settlement sum or determined by a formula ) , which terminates the perpetuity obligation . But the mathematical valuation is still based on the idea of endless payment . <URL> : <URL> :
Outside of a tax sheltered IRA or 401 ( k ) type of account your transactions may trigger tax liability . However , transactions are not taxed immediately at the time of the transaction ; and up to a certain limits capital gains can be offset by capital losses which can mitigate your liability at tax time . Also , remember that dividend receipts are taxable income as well . As others have said , this has nothing to do with whether or not money has been moved out of the account .
While they are generally analogous , they have different objectives . According to <URL> " the performance definition of the FICO risk score ( its stated design objective ) is to predict the likelihood that a consumer will go 90 days past due or worse in the subsequent 24 months after the score has been calculated . " Meanwhile debt ratings revolve around the entity 's perceived ability to meet its financial obligations . Debt rating emphasizes that the score is on the underlying security ( bond ) , which is purchased by investors . It is also a matter of semantics . Both Investopedia and Wikipedia consider credit rating to be an umbrella term which encompasses the credit worthiness of individuals and large entities . Both also view to mean and to refer to an individual 's credit rating . It 's also a question of practicality . They need to have different names to differentiate them . It would be odd to think of investing in most individual 's debt . So , it makes sense that the rating of such debt would have a different name . ( Bear in mind that securitized mortgage and credit card debt are aggregated , not sold on an individual basis . )
Most of the gold prices at international markets are USD denominated . Hence the prices would be same in international markets where large players are buying and selling . However this does not mean that the prices to the individuals in local markets is same . The difference is due to multiple things like cost of physical delivery , warehousing , local taxation , conversion of Local currency to USD etc. . So in essence the price of Gold is similar to price of Crude Oil . The price of Oil is more or less same on all the markets exchanges , though there is small difference this is because of the cost of delivery/shipment which is borne by the buyer . However the cost of Oil to retail individual varies from country to country .
I will attempt to answer three separate questions here : Should you leave your emergency fund in a high yield investment ? Should you leave your emergency fund in BRL or convert it to SEK ? Can a moderate risk investment in BRL or SEK yield better results ? Should you leave your emergency fund in a high yield investment ? The standard answer is that an emergency fund should not be in an investment that can lose value . The safest course of action is to put it in a savings account or other very low risk investment somewhere . Should you leave your emergency fund in BRL or convert it to SEK ? This question becomes : can a reasonable and low risk investment in Sweden be comparable to or better than a low risk investment in Brazil ? Inflation in Brazil has averaged a little less than 6 % over the last 10 years with a recent spike up above 8 % . A cursory search indicates interest rates on savings accounts in Brazil are outpacing inflation so you might still expect a positive return on money in a savings account there . By contrast , Sweden 's inflation rate has been around 1 % over the last 10 years and has hovered around 0 or even deflation in recent years . Swedish interest rates for savings accounts right now are very low , nearly 0 % . Putting money in a savings account in Sweden would likely hold its value or lose a slight amount of value . Based on this , you might be better off leaving your emergency fund invested in BRL in Brazil . Can a moderate risk investment in BRL or SEK yield better results ? The answer to this a little unclear . The Brazilian stock market has been all over the place in the last 10 years , with a slight downard trend in recent years . In comparison , Sweden 's stock market has shown fairly consistent growth in spite of the big dip in 2008 . Given this , it seems like the fairest comparison would your current 13 % ROI investment in Brazil vs. a fund or ETF that tracks the Swedish stock market index . If we assume a consistent 13 % ROI on your investment in Brazil and a consistent inflation rate of 6 % , your adjusted ROI there would be around 7 % per year . The XACT OMS30 ETF that tracks the Swedish OMS 30 Index has a 10 year annualized return of 9.81 % . If you subtract 0.8 % inflation , you get an adjusted ROI 9 % . Based on this , Sweden may be a safer place for longer term , moderate risk investments right now .
end question
start question
What 's an Exchange-Traded Fund ( ETF ) ?
Wikipedia has a fairly detailed explanation of ETFs . <URL>
A synthetic ETF represents some segment of a market or a market index , but does n't invest in the actual securities . Typically this means they 're using options contracts or similar instruments ( swaps ) . The most obvious of these are leveraged ETFs : they aim to return something like " twice the daily performance of the S&amp;P 500 " . Sometimes these are short ETFs : " twice the inverse of the daily performance " . Because their objective is the daily performance , their returns may diverge significantly over time . They 're pretty much always a good way to lose money in the long term . They 're primarily used for day traders to have an effective way to perform certain day-trade strategies . There may be other kinds of synthetic ETFs out there . I do n't know about the details of them . There are definitely some commodities-futures funds that do n't hold the actual commodities but I do n't know any in the ETF flavor . Commodity-futures funds are subject to what they call contango in certain ( rising ) markets , which may hamper their ability to chase that performance . ( They ca n't take physical delivery . If the price for delivery in 12 months is higher than the price of an option expiring now , then they ca n't actually capture that gain . ) You can tell a regular ETF by the fact that its prospectus and " about this fund " info which says what it invests in . A standard vanilla ETF will say something like " this fund invests all or substantially all of its assets in the common stocks of the companies in the Standard &amp; Poor 500 " ( or whatever the ETF represents ) . These are the kinds of ETFs an individual investor should probably be investing in .
There is no proper way , but I think you have decide before you even try what the minimum you will accept for the job and be ready to decline the offer if you do n't get it . Further , do n't just go into the conversation with the attitude " I want more money , give it to me . " Be ready to restate your qualifications and the value they will provide to the organization . You have to justify why you are worth more than they are offering . For example : " As we discussed in the interview , I raised sales by $ 100K in my last firm in the first year . With that in mind , an additional $ 10K in your offer seems very reasonable , what do you think ? " As someone who has been on the employer side of this conversation , I can say that one of the most annoying things you can do , and I see it a lot , is ask me whether my number is negotiable . Of course it is , but depending on what else I have lined up and how badly I want to hire you , it might not be for you . It is just a silly question and makes you come off as a weak negotiator that can easily be taken advantage of . I usually just say " no " when people ask this . It 's not like I ca n't back off on this position later on if they actually do try to walk away from the deal . Best advice , come up with a good justification/story about why you are worth more , and ask for a specific number . Update : As requested in the comments , here is a generic <URL> to negotiating successfully . Here 's one specifically <URL> .
Well , I did a bit more research , and one <URL> , which I suppose is one way I can compare where I 'm at to people like me . <URL> Edit : Credit limits have been lowering over time . The chart above is from 2011 , now in 2015 :
The rates are always one way round - in this case they are saying that 1 AUD is worth 0.882 or 0.7448 USD . You can check the general scale with plenty of other websites which are more explicit about what they mean , e.g. Google for " 1 AUD in USD " and it currently says " 1 AUD equals 0.79 USD " . The differences in the rates you 've been quoted are because the bank wants to make a profit . If you want to convert your 1 AUD to USD , you pay the worse rate and will get 0.7448 USD . If you want to convert back , you need 0.882 USD to get 1 AUD . When you see just one rate from somewhere like Google it is a " mid-market " rate . It 's not a rate that you could either buy or sell at , but in some sense it 's a measure of what the " real " rate is .
Mortgage rates tend to track the <URL> on the 10-year Treasury note . The <URL> , TNX , is a security directly related to this rate . Divide the CBOE price of TNX by 10 to get the yield . One can also track the 10Y T-Note yield at <URL> using ticker symbol ( ^ TNX ) .
Depends . The short answer is yes ; HSBC , for instance , based in New York , is listed on both the LSE and NYSE . Toyota 's listed on the TSE and NYSE . There are many ways to do this ; both of the above examples are the result of a corporation owning a subsidiary in a foreign country by the same name ( a holding company ) , which sells its own stock on the local market . The home corporation owns the majority holdings of the subsidiary , and issues its own stock on its " home country 's " exchange . It is also possible for the same company to list shares of the same " pool " of stock on two different exchanges ( the foreign exchange usually lists the stock in the corporation 's home currency and the share prices are near-identical ) , or for a company to sell different portions of itself on different exchanges . However , these are much rarer ; for tax liability and other cost purposes it 's usually easier to keep American monies in America and Japanese monies in Japan by setting up two " copies " of yourself with one owning the other , and move money around between companies as necessary . Shares of one issue of one company 's stock , on one exchange , are the same price regardless of where in the world you place a buy order from . However , that does n't necessarily mean you 'll pay the same actual value of currency for the stock . First off , you buy the stock in the listed currency , which means buying dollars ( or Yen or Euros or GBP ) with both a fluctuating exchange rate between currencies and a broker 's fee ( one of those cost savings that make it a good idea to charter subsidiaries ; could you imagine millions a day in car sales moving from American dealers to Toyota of Japan , converted from USD to Yen , with a FOREX commission to be paid ? ) . Second , you 'll pay the stock broker a commission , and he may charge different rates for different exchanges that are cheaper or more costly for him to do business in ( he might need a trader on the floor at each exchange or contract with a foreign broker for a cut of the commission ) .
The best bank with least amount of gotchas is Alliant Credit Union . I did a lot of research and finally decided on this bank . I did a comparative study between ING , Ally and Alliant and found Alliant to be superior than the the other two . More about my study : <URL> If you do find a better bank than this , please update this post , I 'd definitely like to know ! Disclaimer : I have no relationship with either of the three banks .
The value to you of a tax free fund is going to depend largely on your current marginal tax bracket . For example if you had a regular MM that was paying 1 % and it was taxable , then your net off that one percent would be If the tax free MM fund pays .75 % then you would be a tiny bit ahead using it , if you are in the 28 % bracket , but you would be behind if you are in anything lower than 25 % The primary market ( IMHO ) for Tax Free money market funds is for high wealth individuals who are in the 33 OR 35 percent brackets
First off , you generally want to park your emergency fund somewhere that is " safe " , meaning something that is not subject to market fluctuations . Your emergency fund is something you need to be able to count on when times are tough ! That rules out things like stock market investments . Secondly , you need to think about how quickly you will need access to the money . If you have an emergency , odds are you do n't want to be waiting around for weeks/months/years for the money to become available . This rules out most fixed-term investments ( Bonds , traditional CDs , etc ) . If you are concerned that you will need near-instant access to your emergency money , then you probably want to keep it in a Savings or Money Market Account at the same bank as your checking account . Most banks will let you transfer money between local accounts instantly . Unfortunately , your local bank probably has pitiful interest rates for the Savings/MMA , far below the inflation rate . This means your money will slowly lose value over time . Be prepared to keep contributing to it ! For most people , being able to draw the cash from your fund within a few days ( < 1 week ) is sufficient . Worst case , you charge something on your credit card , and then pay down the card when the emergency fund withdrawal arrives . If " money within a few days " is okay for you , there are a few options : Money Market ( Mutual ) Funds ( not to be confused with a Money Market Account ) - This is the traditional place to keep an emergency fund . These are investment funds you can buy with a brokerage account . An example of such a fund would be <URL> . MMFs are not FDIC insured , so they are not exactly zero risk . However , they are considered extremely safe . They almost never go down in value ( only a few times in the past few decades ) , and when they have , the fund manager or the Federal Govt stepped in to restore the value . They usually offer slightly better return than a local savings account , and are available in taxable and non-taxable varieties . Online High-Yield Savings or Money Market Account - These are a relatively new invention . It 's basically a the same thing as what your local bank offers , but it 's online-only . No local branch means low overhead , so they offer higher interest rates ( 2.0 % vs 0.5 % for your local bank ) . Some of them used to be over 5 % before the economy tanked . Like your local bank , it is FDIC insured . One bit of caution : Some of these accounts have become " gimmicky " lately . They have started to do things like promo rates for a few months , only offering the high interest rate on the first few $ K deposited , limiting the amount that can be withdrawn , etc. . Be sure to read the details before you open an account ! No-Penalty CDs - Certificates of Deposit usually offer a better rate than a Savings Account , but your money is locked up until the CD term is up ( e.g. 36 months ) . If you need to cash out before then , you pay a penalty . Some banks have begun to offer CDs that you can cash out with no penalty at all . These can offer better rates than the savings account . Make sure it really is no-penalty though . Also watch what your options are for slowly adding money over time . This can be an issue if you want to deposit $ 100 from every paycheck . Rewards Checking Accounts - These are checking accounts that will pay a relatively high interest rate ( 3 % or more ) provided you generate enough activity . Most of them will have requirements like you must have direct deposit setup with them , and you must do a minimum number of debit card transactions from the account per month . If you can stay on top of the requirements , these can be a great deal . If you do n't stay on top of it , your interest rate usually drops back to something pitiful , though . Personally , we use the Online High-Yield Savings Account for our emergency fund . I 'm not going to make a specific recommendation as to which bank to use . The best deal changes almost week to week . Instead , I will say to check out <URL> for a list of savings accounts and CDs that you can sort . The <URL> is a good place to follow rate changes .
If you do n't carry a balance , there is no disadvantage . Merchants pay less for their in-house credit , so there are often incentives for you to use the store card . The perils of opening a credit card hurting your credit score are way overblown in general , if you have good to excellent credit . If you have excellent credit , there is no material effect on your ability to borrow . You 'll get knocked down a few points when you open the card , but as long as you 're not on a credit application frenzy there is n't an issue .
Expenses are taken out of the fund 's assets , which lowers the return to investors . ( <URL> ) . As fideli mentioned below , " the indicated unit price has already taken into account the cut that the fund company took as part of its expense ratio . "
There are a few reasons why an index mutual fund may be preferable to an ETF : Index mutual funds do n't typically have transaction fees and ETFs usually do because ETFs trade like stocks . If you pursue a dollar cost averaging strategy ( i.e. buying stocks every two weeks ) , ETF transaction costs can add up . Fractional index mutual fund shares can be owned , so you can invest a constant amount in an index mutual fund ( which also works well with a dollar cost averaging strategy ) . You ca n't buy 18.3 shares of an ETF . Similar to stocks , ETFs have liquidity risk . ETFs can trade at a premium or discount to Net Asset Value , similar to a close-ended mutual fund ( this means the price of an ETF can stray from the value of its underlying assets ) . I looked at the <URL> and it has an expense ratio of 0.07 % . The Vanguard Admiral S&amp;P 500 index has an expense ratio of 0.05 % and the Investor Shares have an expense ratio of 0.17 % , do I do n't necessarily agree with your statement " admiral class Vanguard shares do n't beat the iShares ETF " .
This depends on whether the " some party " is a specific institution or individual ( e.g. a bank ) or a <URL> ( e.g. the <URL> ) . In the first case , the answer is yes . In the second case , the central counterparty is merely an intermediary , and derivative exercises are randomly assigned . This <URL> may help you understand .
HSAs are very similar to IRAs . Any investment returns grow tax-deferred and once you reach age 591/2 65 , you can withdraw the funds for any purpose ( subject to ordinary income tax ) , just like a traditional IRA . If you can afford to do so , I would recommend you to pay medical expenses out-of-pocket and let the funds in your HSA accumulate and grow . In general , the best way to allocate your funds is in the following order : Contribute to a 401 ( k ) if your employer matches funds at a substantial rate Pay off high-interest debt ( 8 % of more in current environment in 2011 ) Contribute to an IRA ( traditional or Roth ) Contribute to an HSA Contribute to a 401 ( k ) without the benefit of employer matching One advantage of HSAs versus IRAs is that you do n't have to have earned income ( salary or self-employment income ) in order to contribute . If you derive income solely from rents , interest or dividends , you can contribute the maximum amount ( $ 3,050 for individuals in 2011 ) and get a full deduction from your income ( Of course , you will need to maintain a high-deductible health plan in order to qualify ) . One downside of HSAs is the lack of competitively priced providers . Wells Fargo offers HSAs for free , but only allows you to keep your funds in cash , earning a very measly interest rate , or invest them in rather mediocre and expensive Wells Fargo mutual funds . Vanguard , known for its low-fee investment options , provides HSAs through a partner company , but the account maintenance charges are still quite high . Overall , HSAs are a worthwhile option as part of your investment plan .
I would start with <URL> and <URL> . At Globefund , you can compare any mutual fund against a plethora of benchmarks . Not sure if you can compare between individual funds .
When you pay monthly , you 're making 12 payments / year . Assuming you have a payment of $ 1000/mo , that 's $ 12,000 / year that you 're paying for your mortgage . When you opt for bi-weekly , they 're saying that you can pay half of your mortgage ( $ 500 ) bi-weekly ( can be configured to align with your paycheck ) . Since there are ~ 26 bi-weekly periods in a year , you 're making 26 * $ 500 = $ 13,000 in mortgage payments each year . Some of these companies charge a fee for you to utilize this service . The main concept behind this is that people are horrible at budgeting on their own , so when $ 500 is immediately taken from your paycheck , you 'll be able to budget around what 's left and be able to make that extra payment each year without thinking about it or realizing it .
Yes , absolutely . Consider Microsoft , Updated Jan. 17 , 2003 11:59 p.m. ET Software giant Microsoft Corp. , finally bowing to mounting pressure to return some of its huge cash hoard to investors , said it will begin paying a regular annual dividend to shareholders . From <URL> . Thus , for the years prior to 2003 , the company did n't pay dividends but changed that . There can also be some special one-time dividends as Microsoft did the following year according to the <URL> : The $ 32 billion one-time dividend payment , which comes to $ 3 for each share of Microsoft stock , could be a measurable stimulus to the U.S. economy -- and is expected to arrive just in time for holiday shopping . Course companies can also reduce to stop dividends as well .
My experience is in the UK , not Canada , but i imagine the situation is similar . It 's true that an index tracker will outperform the average managed fund . But it 's also true that there 's a lot more variation in performance in managed funds than in trackers ( naturally ) . That means that when people look at performance league tables , they see managed funds at the top , and they go for managed funds . That explains why index funds have n't taken over the market - people always think they can do better . The question is , of course , whether they can . Can you reliably pick a managed fund that will be in the top half of that league table five years down the line , rather than one which will have crashed into the below-the-index relegation zone ? You can find any number of pundits who will assure you that you can , and at least as many who will be equally certain that you ca n't . My two cents ( three cents Canadian ) is that you can , as long as you 're sensible and not greedy ; forget about any fund with ' growth ' , ' aggressive ' , or 'em erging markets ' in the title , and look for ones with a consistent track record over five years or more . It 's not a guarantee of future success , but i do think it 's a reasonable indication . I 'd be interested to see statistics about this , though . In particular , look for income funds - that 's where the money is invested in a diverse set of companies that pay good dividends ; the growth rate and volatility may or may not be better than an index tracker , but the dividends mean that the growth in value of the fund is less dependent on capital growth , shielding you from poor performance . For example , a good chunk of my savings are in the <URL> , which has beaten the FTSE all-share index by a modest amount over the last five years , and will probably beat it harder over the next five if they do n't include another crash ( a big if ! ) . On the subject of dividends , i do n't know how things work in Canada , but in the UK , an index tracker does n't pass on any of the dividends paid by the shares it notionally holds ; it just tracks the capital value , with the fund manager pocketing the payouts . I have a vague idea that an ETF does pass the dividends on to you , but i 'm not sure . As for websites , <URL> is good .
Banks often offer cash to people who open savings accounts in order to drive new business . Their gain is pretty much as you think , to grow their asset base . A survey released in 2008 by UK-based Age Concern declared that only 16 % of the British population have ever switched their banks ' while 45 % of marriages now end in divorce . Yip , till death do most part . In the US , similar analysis is pointing to a decline in people moving banks from the typical rate of 15 % annually . If people are <URL> then how much more difficult for online brokers to get customers to switch ? TD Ameritrade is offering you 30 days commission-free and some cash ( 0.2 % - 0.4 % depending on the funds you invest ) . Most people - especially those who use the opportunity to buy and hold - wo n't make much money for them , but it only takes a few more aggressive traders for them to gain overall . For financial institutions the question is straightforward : how much must they pay you to overcome your switching cost of changing institutions ? If that number is sufficiently smaller than what they feel they can make in profits on having your business then they will pay . EDIT TO ELABORATE : The mechanism by which any financial institution makes money by offering cash to customers is essentially one of the " law of large numbers " . If all you did is transfer in , say , $ 100,000 , buy an ETF within the 30-day window ( or any of the ongoing commission-free ones ) and hold , then sell after a few years , they will probably lose money on you . I imagine they expect that on a large number of people taking advantage of this offer . Credit card companies are no different . More than half of people pay their monthly credit balance without incurring any interest charges . They get 30 days of credit for free . Everyone else makes the company a fortune . TD Ameritrade 's fees are quite comprehensive outside of this special offer . Besides <URL> , their <URL> include subscription fees , administration fees , transaction fees , a few extra-special value-added services and , then , when you wish to cash out and realise your returns , an outbound transfer fee . However , you 're a captured market . Since most people wo n't change their online brokers any more often than they 'd change their bank , TD Ameritrade will be looking to offer you all sorts of new services and take commission on all of it . At most they spend $ 500 - $ 600 to get you as a customer , or , to get you to transfer a lot more cash into their funds . And they get to keep you for how long ? Ten years , maybe more ? You think they might be able to sell you a few big-ticket items in the interim ? Maybe interest you in some subscription service ? This is n't grocery shopping . They can afford to think long-term .
end question
start question
Are HSA administrative fees considered distributions ?
@Spig You are correct that the Custodian should NOT be reporting administrative fees as a normal distribution . Fees should be excluded from distribution reporting entirely . Continue to contact them until they confirm that they are posting a corrected 1099-SA or you receive one .
I am looking at a 1040A . Line 11a asks for total IRA distributions . 11b asks for the taxable amount . Enter " QCD " as explanation and remove the Qualified Charitable Deduction amount from 11a to get 11b which is added to your income if there 's any positive balance .
Charlie would have to have a family or employee-plus-one HSA-compatible plan to contribute the family limit ( $ 6550 for 2014 ) . Importantly , those covered under his plan can not have non-HSA-compatible coverage . From the <URL> : Other health coverage . You ( and your spouse , if you have family coverage ) generally can not have any other health coverage that is not an HDHP . However , you can still be an eligible individual even if your spouse has non-HDHP coverage provided you are not covered by that plan . Lower down on the same page it talks about <URL> . You definitely want to withdraw the excess or else you get hit with a 6 % tax on it every year . The withdrawal , along with earnings on the excess contributions , needs to be done before you file your taxes .
Hope springs eternal in the human breast . No actively managed fund has beaten the indices over a long period of time , but over shorter periods , actively managed funds have beaten the indices quite often , sometimes quite spectacularly , and sometimes even for many years in a row . Examples from the past include Fidelity Magellan and Legg Mason Value Trust . So people buy actively managed funds hoping to cash in on such good performance . The difficulty is , of course , that many people do n't even think about investing in a fund until it is listed in some " Top Forty Funds of last year " compilation , and for many funds , they have already peaked , and new buyers are often disappointed . Some people who invested earlier plan on getting out of the fund before the fund falls flat on its face , and fewer even succeed in doing so . As to why 401k plans often have high-cost actively managed funds , there are several reasons . A most important one is that there are numerous companies that act as administrators of 401k programs and these companies put together package deals of 401k programs ( funds , administrative costs etc ) , and small employers perforce have to choose from one of these packages . Second , there are various rules that have come into existence since the first days of 401k ( and 403b ) programs such as the investment choices must include funds of different types , and actively managed funds ( large cap , small cap etc ) are one of the choices that must be offered . Gone are the days when the only choice was a variable annuity offered by the insurance company administering the 401k program . Finally , program participants also have hopes ( cf. opening sentence ) and used to demand that the 401k program offer a few actively managed funds , not just index funds .
This depends entirely on the kind of " IT " you 're doing . A couple of examples to illuminate how wide the term is : Computer support : expense Online banking : basic functionality is expense , but ability to upsell users to high-end products is income Automated stock trading : income - and it 's extremely high in demand To answer your core question : look beyond the title ( " IT " ) , to the function you 're providing to the bank , and ask if / how that function can generate money for the bank for better income possibilities ; if the answer is " none " , figure out which levers are closer to making money , and position yourself as such .
Michael McGowan 's answer is correct . The HDHP is like conventional insurance -- it is not like a " health care plan " that we 're all used to . I.e. you do n't want to have it pay out -- if it pays out , something bad has happened to you . ( Just like you hope to never make a claim on your homeowner 's , disability , or AD&amp;D insurance -- that means something bad happened to you . ) There are minor exceptions -- some HDHPs may cover preventive care , immunizations , etc to some extent . The bonus in the case of the HDHP is that you get to put money to cover the deductible into a tax deferred account . The HSA is effectively a self insurance fund with the HDHP as backup . Here 's a concrete example . Say you have an HDHP with a $ 2500 deductible . The monthly premium is $ 500 . You put $ 3000 into your HSA . Scenario 1 : You remain mostly healthy throughout the year . You have a single doctor 's visit , the doctor 's office submits a claim to your insurance . The insurance does n't pay because you have n't met your deductible , and you get a bill for $ 150 . You write the doctor a check for $ 150 out of your HSA . Here , you 've spent $ 6000 on your HDHP premiums , contributed $ 3000 to your HSA , and spent $ 150 of that on health care . At the end of the year , your HSA balance is $ 2850 . In the following year , assume you plan to contribute another $ 3000 to your HSA . You can increase your deductible on the HDHP to $ 5000 ( since you 'll have $ 6000 in your HSA to cover out of pocket costs ) and your monthly premium might go down to $ 400 . Scenario 2 : You are hospitalized for a week . The hospital submits a $ 15000 claim to your insurance . The insurance pays $ 12500 since your deductible is met after $ 2500 . The hospital sends you a bill for $ 2500 for the balance . You write a check to the hospital out of your HSA . Again , you 've spent $ 6000 on your HDHP premiums and contributed $ 3000 to your HSA . At the end of the year , your HSA balance is $ 500 . Scenario 3 : You are hospitalized for two days in December 2011 , and then again for two days in January 2012 . Your deductible reset on January 1 , 2012 . The hospital submits two claims to your insurance : one in 2011 for $ 5000 and one in 2012 for $ 5000 . The insurance company pays $ 2500 on the first one and you get a bill for the other $ 2500 . Same thing for the second one -- you 've got to meet the deductible all over again . You write the hospital a check from your HSA to pay the first one . Then you 've only got $ 500 left in your HSA . But you were planning to make another $ 3000 HSA contribution for 2012 anyway , so you make the contribution , write a $ 2500 check to pay the second bill , and you 've now got a balance of $ 1000 in your HSA -- and since you 've met the deductible for 2012 you should have no more out of pocket expenses . ( Assuming your plan does n't have copays . )
HSA accounts come with various rules intended to ensure that the pre-tax money you have opted to put into your HSA account is indeed used for appropriate purposes . Most employers do n't handle these accounts in-house but contract with a company or bank who offers to take care of the details and the necessary accounting : the money is simply sent to the bank , and it is the bank that is responsible for ensuring that the money is indeed used appropriately . Now , if you say that you want Wells Fargo ( to pick another bank as an example ) to handle your HSA account , the employer will likely need to have a contract with Wells Fargo too , and Wells Fargo will charge you fees to handle the account also . Whether you will be any happier with Wells Fargo 's fees for a one-off HSA account versus Chase 's fees where a ( smaller ) bulk rate might be charged is something that you should find out before approaching your employer with a request to have Wells Fargo handle your HSA account .
Yes you are eligible even if your spouse is enrolled in Medicare . As long as YOU are not enrolled in Medicare you can contribute to an HSA . You may use the money to pay the cost of qualified medical expenses for you and your spouse . Here are some resources with additional information : <URL> <URL>
Amounts on line 1 of the K-1 are translated into taxable income to you . Amounts on line 16 of the K-1 with code D are translated into reduction of your cost basis for the shares . If your cost basis is already $ 0 - they are <URL> . You need to track and adjust your cost basis in the shares . When you sell your shares - you 'll pay capital gains tax on the difference between the proceeds and the adjusted basis . When distributions wipe out your basis , further distributions are treated as gains , and taxed at the year distributed . So at the end of 2014 , your adjusted cost basis in these shares is $ 3000 : $ 4000 you paid - $ 1000 you got back ( distribution on line 16 with code D ) .
The <URL> pertaining to the subject . In general the best I can say is your business expense may be deductible . But it depends on the circumstances and what it is you want to deduct . Travel Taxpayers who travel away from home on business may deduct related expenses , including the cost of reaching their destination , the cost of lodging and meals and other ordinary and necessary expenses . Taxpayers are considered " traveling away from home " if their duties require them to be away from home substantially longer than an ordinary day 's work and they need to sleep or rest to meet the demands of their work . The actual cost of meals and incidental expenses may be deducted or the taxpayer may use a standard meal allowance and reduced record keeping requirements . Regardless of the method used , meal deductions are generally limited to 50 percent as stated earlier . Only actual costs for lodging may be claimed as an expense and receipts must be kept for documentation . Expenses must be reasonable and appropriate ; deductions for extravagant expenses are not allowable . More information is available in Publication 463 , Travel , Entertainment , Gift , and Car Expenses . Entertainment Expenses for entertaining clients , customers or employees may be deducted if they are both ordinary and necessary and meet one of the following tests : Directly-related test : The main purpose of the entertainment activity is the conduct of business , business was actually conducted during the activity and the taxpayer had more than a general expectation of getting income or some other specific business benefit at some future time . Associated test : The entertainment was associated with the active conduct of the taxpayer 's trade or business and occurred directly before or after a substantial business discussion . Publication 463 provides more extensive explanation of these tests as well as other limitations and requirements for deducting entertainment expenses . Gifts Taxpayers may deduct some or all of the cost of gifts given in the course of their trade or business . In general , the deduction is limited to $ 25 for gifts given directly or indirectly to any one person during the tax year . More discussion of the rules and limitations can be found in Publication 463 . If your LLC reimburses you for expenses outside of this guidance it should be treated as Income for tax purposes . Edit for Meal Expenses : Amount of standard meal allowance . The standard meal allowance is the federal M&amp;IE rate . For travel in 2010 , the rate for most small localities in the United States is $ 46 a day . <URL> Alternately you could reimburse at a <URL>
Is it correct that I could save my medical receipts for many years then claim them all at once in the future ? Yes , that is correct . Save your receipts ( or scan them and save the files ) . I 'm doing the same . I pay my expenses out of pocket for now , and use the HSA as a tax-free investment vehicle for retirement . Once I 'm retired , I expect to start using the HSA to pay my health expenses - either expenses incurred during retirement , or past expenses . We do n't have lots of health expenses now , but I ca n't predict what they will be down the road . Either way , the HSA investments should help . Plus they are funded pre-tax today , grow tax-free , and will be disbursed tax-free .
In regards to your question about Social Security being taxable income , yes - Social Security distributions are currently considered taxable income . That was n't the case for decades , but what Congress giveth , Congress can taketh away . According to IRS tax tip 2010-31 ( http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=179091,00.html ) : Add one-half of the total Social Security benefits you receive to all your other income , including any tax exempt interest and other exclusions from income . " If that is higher than the following ( 2009 ) base amounts , some of your benefits may be taxable :  $ 32,000 for married couples filing jointly .  $ 25,000 for single , separated , head of household , widow w / dependent child  $ 0 for married filing separately So if you 're single , you 'd have to keep your 401k + traditional IRA distributions + 1/2 social security distributions under $ 25k to avoid the social security adding to your taxable income In 2010 , the 15 % tax bracket stops at $ 34k for single filers .
The government wants to encourage everyone to buy health insurance , because with more healthy people buying health insurance , the rates can be reduced for those that are less healthy . Ask yourself this : Why does the HSA require health insurance at all ? Should you be able to make use of an HSA if you do n't have any health insurance ? The HSA is the carrot that the government holds out to get people that might decide to skip health insurance to buy it . If they did n't have an upper limit on the deductible , you could buy health insurance with an extremely high deductible at an extremely low rate , and then it would essentially be like you did n't have any health insurance at all . As to why the ACA law is n't coordinated with the HSA law , well , there are lots of issues with the ACA law , and this is only one of them ...
It depends on the funds you invest in . Load funds ( those that charge a fee to invest ) will charge that fee on each monthly investment . Some load funds may have special share classes that have reduced fees . You will have to research the fund ( via its prospectus or a trusted financial advisor ) to determine if you qualify to use such a share class . Some funds ( and some share classes ) charge smaller fees when you invest , but may include a contingent fee that will be paid when you sell . They 're contingent upon the time period you own them . After some period of time , the fee is usually removed . Again , read the prospectus . No-load funds do not charge a fee to invest , and so they would be a good place to look , especially for index funds . Most brokerages do not charge an additional fee to invest in mutual funds . They are paid a commission by the fund , through the sales fee and annual expense charges of the funds . If you 're investing in index ETFs or closed-end funds ( which trade on exchanges ) , there is likely a commission to be paid for each monthly investment . Your specific brokerage may have a special arrangement for recurring monthly investing . You 'll need to research that with your brokerage .
No , as per the Ontario FAQ on the HST . <URL> It does note that some of the services that condo buildings purchase will be subject to HST , so the condo fee itself might have to change , but therefore indirectly , as opposed to being subject to the tax itself .
To be in a health savings account you must be in a high deductible health plan , but the advantage is that the money rolls over from year to year if you do n't use it , but it can only be used for qualified medical expenses . A flexible spending account has its advantage as well : You can use it for dependent care as well as medical expenses , but it 's part of a cafeteria plan and you lose the money that you do n't spend by the end of the year ( rather than it simply rolling over to the next ) . Another benefit in a FSA is that if you allocate 200/mo to it , and you need to get surgery in January that costs 2400 dollars and then you lose your job in February , you just got 2400 dollars of surgery for 200 dollars pre-tax :) In summary : Move to France for real health care :) just kidding
Of course . The rationale is exactly the same as always : profit is taxed . The fact that you use intermediate barter to make that profit is irrelevant . To clarify , as it seems that you think it makes a difference that no money " changed hands " . Consider this situation : You produced item X , which cost you $ 100 to produce . You have 100 of those in stock . You priced each item X at $ 200 in your store . So far your cost is $ 10000 . You sold 100 units of item X to a customer who paid you with gold coins worth $ 20000 . How did the customer come up with the amount of gold ? Easy : converted your price for the items based on the current gold spot price , whatever it is . You did n't get any $ $ $ , you only got some gold coins , but the value of the gold you got is " accidentally " exactly the same as the value of $ $ $ you would get had you sold your merchandise for $ $ $ . How will the tax authority address this ? They will look at the fair market value of the barter . You got gold worth of $ 20000 . So from their perspective , you got $ 20000 , and immediately exchanged it into gold . What does it mean for you ? That you 're taxed on the $ 10000 gain you made on your product X ( the $ 20000 worth of barter that you received minus the $ 10000 worth of work/material/expenses that you spend on producing the merchandise ) , and that you have $ 20000 basis in the gold that you now own . If in a year , when you plan to sell the gold , its price drops - you can deduct investment losses . If its price goes up - you 'll have investment gain . But for the gain you 're making on your product X you will pay taxes now , because that 's when you realized it - sold the merchandize and received in return something else of a value .
Benefits : As <URL> mentions , this is literally a savings account that you can use for <URL> , with no time limitation ( unlike an FSA where you must use the money by the end of the year ) The tax benefits for can be large . if you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket and your state charges you an additional 7 % taxes in your income bracket , if you put $ 3,000 into an HSA in a year , $ 3000 will be knocked off your AGI for taxes and so you 'll owe 32 % * $ 3000 = $ 960 less money in taxes come tax day ( assuming you do n't adjust your witholdings ) . If your employer offers it , you can put money in your HSA just like a 401k - PRE tax . That means you get the tax savings of putting money in an HSA over the year instead of in a lump sum at the end of the year . If you 're well off and healthy , this is a great investment vehicle . You can put money into a <URL> or a <URL> Premiums are often lower for HSA 's than other types of insurance . Often preventative coverage is completely covered ( doctors visits , immunizations etc ) . Costs : By law HSA 's must have a high deductible - $ 1200 for singles or $ 2,400 for families according to <URL> . From what I 've seen of HSA 's , you 're on the hook for any drugs you buy until your deductible is met . Depending on how many drugs you are on this could get costly . It can take time to find a good HSA account that gives you a good return at a reasonable cost . Check out investment vehicle links above for some good options IMO . If you or someone in your family gets injured or goes to the ER/hospital a lot , you 'll chew right through your deductible . It takes time to manage the inflow/outflow of money into and out of your HSA . You have ultimate flexibility and the ultimate responsibility of proving to the IRS ( if they audit you ) that you used the money for qualified medical expenses . Tax laws changing makes the viability of these accounts uncertain . Perhaps something that is allowable as a qualified medical expense now , will not be considered a qualified medical expense later - like over the counter drugs next year , due to some stupid changes ( in my opinion ) . <URL> : However , beginning in early 2011 you will no longer be able to pay for OTC ( over the counter ) medications with HSA dollars Notes : I 've found it easiest to pay for expenses through a credit card and then keep track of those which are reimbursable in a spreadsheet , and take a HSA withdrawl to cover my expenses . Other options include paying for large health care expenditures ( e.g. getting LASIK ) directly out of your HSA . State income taxes may or may not exclude HSA 's You have to make sure when you use healthcare that you bill it to your insurance , otherwise it isnt counted as part of your deductible ( even if you are fully responsible for the bill ) . A general thought - HSA 's fit the classical model of " insurance " , which is , to insure against very bad things happening ( car accident , cancer etc ) . You 're on the hook for the first $ X ,000 ( the deductible ) for that year , but typically everything after is covered by the insurer . HSA 's are good if you actually investigate the costs associated with healthcare - do n't go to an ER if urgent care will do , or if you do n't need to go to urgent care , forego it .
Your assets are marked to market . If you buy at X , and the market is bidding at 99.9 % * X then you 've already lost 0.1 % . This is a market value oriented way of looking at costs . You could always value your assets with mark to model , and maybe you do , but no one else will . Just because you think the stock is worth 2 * X does n't mean the rest of the world agrees , evidenced by the bid . You surely wo n't get any margin loans based upon mark to model . Your bankers wo n't be convinced of the valuation of your assets based upon mark to model . By strictly a market value oriented way of valuing assets , there is a bid/ask cost . more clarification Relative to littleadv , this is actually a good exposition between the differences between cash and accrual accounting . littleadv is focusing completely on the cash cost of the asset at the time of transaction and saying that there is no bid/ask cost . Through the lens of cash accounting , that is 100 % correct . However , if one uses accrual accounting marking assets to market ( as we all do with marketable assets like stocks , bonds , options , etc ) , there may be a bid/ask cost . At the time of transaction , the bids used to trade ( one 's own ) are exhausted . According to exchange rules that are now practically uniform : the highest bid is given priority , and if two bids are bidding the exact same highest price then the oldest bid is given priority ; therefore the oldest highest bid has been exhausted and removed at trade . At the time of transaction , the value of the asset can not be one 's own bid but the highest oldest bid leftover . If that highest oldest bid is lower than the price paid ( even with liquid stocks this is usually the case ) then one has accrued a bid/ask cost .
An answer to this question <URL> discusses how to redeposit money accidentally withdrawn . The link to <URL> in the answer also includes this FAQ : What if I contribute into my HSA more than my yearly limit allows ? If nothing is done about this excess contribution then there will be an excise tax of 6 percent assessed by the IRS . You are able to avoid this penalty as long as you distribute the excess before the tax filing deadline including any extensions . Any of our many America First branches can help you fill out the appropriate paperwork to get this taken care of so you avoid this tax . contact the institution where the funds are deposited and ask for help reversing the deposit .
end question
start question
line 1a on form 1040 es : for what time period should i be estimating taxes for ?
I assume you are talking about the " Self-Employment Tax and Deduction Worksheet " . Form 1040-ES itself does n't have a line 1a . Everything on this worksheet should be figures for the entire year . At the very end ( line 17 on the " Estimated Tax Worksheet " ) you will divide by 4 to get your estimated tax payment for each quarter .
If you know that your tax situation is not easily handled by the standard withholding table then you can use that line to ask for additional funds be withheld . You could also ask for less money to be withheld . Why would somebody do this ? They had a small side business that made them extra income , and wanted to withhold extra money from their full time job to cover the extra income . They might have been awarded a big bonus and it caused too much in taxes to be withheld so they wanted to not have as much taxes from their regular pay check . Given the fact that you are young , in your first real job , and almost the entire tax year ahead of you , it is likely that the standard tax tables will be close enough . So leave the line blank or put zero .
Yes , and there are almost no checks ( no pun intended ) on people pulling money from your account using a routing number . It is an EXTREMELY insecure system . If you want a real Halloween scare , read this article : <URL> . Unfortunately you just have to live with it . If you are curious why this loophole is allowed to continue , consider how hard it is to close it without undermining the convenience of checks . Short of you going to the bank with each person you write a check to and showing ID to validate the transaction , I do n't see how you could continue to use a negotiable instrument like this without such a security hole . The ultimate answer is going to have to be replacing checks with other means of payment .
At the end of the year , the mutual fund company sends you a statement like any other investment and it has a bunch of boxes that you copy into your tax return software . Then you just check the box that says ' tax-exempt ' and you 're done .
Never invest money you need in the short term . As already suggested , park your money in CDs .
Emergency funds are good to keep yourself out of debt , for whatever reason . Job loss is a big place where an emergency fund can help you out . It buys you time to find another job before hauling out the credit cards for your groceries , falling behind on your mortgage and car payments , etc. . But it can just as easily be used for major car repairs , serious medical issues , home repairs , etc. ... anything that needs to be done quickly , and is n't a discretionary item . The bigger your cash reserves , the better , especially now that the economy is bad .
The rule of thumb ( and that is also what the IRS say in the link Chris posted in the comment ) is that if the institution is eligible for FAFSA - the tuition qualifies for the credits . The quote from <URL> : Eligible educational institution . An eligible educational institution is any college , university , vocational school , or other postsecondary educational institution eligible to participate in a student aid program administered by the U.S. Department of Education . It includes virtually all accredited public , nonprofit , and proprietary ( privately owned profit-making ) postsecondary institutions . The educational institution should be able to tell you if it is an eligible educational institution . To the best of my knowledge , none of the options you mentioned qualify for FAFSA ( one requirement would be accreditation , which none of the MOOCs have , IIRC ) .
If you are comfortable with the risk etc , then the main thing to worry about is diversity . For some folks , picking stocks is beyond them , or they have no interest in it . But if it 's working for you , and you want to keep doing it , more power to you . If you are comfortable with the risk , you could just as well have ALL your equity position in individual stocks . I would offer only two pieces of advice in that respect . 1 ) no more than 4 % of your total in any one stock . That 's a good way to force diversity ( provided the stocks are not clustered in a very few sectors like say ' financials ' ) , and make yourself take some of the ' winnings off the table ' if a stock has done well for you . 2 ) Pay Strong attention to Taxes ! You ca n't predict most things , but you CAN predict what you 'll have to pay in taxes , it 's one of the few known quantities . Be smart and trade so you pay as little in taxes as possible 2A ) If you live someplace where taxes on Long term gains are lower than short term ( like the USA ) then try really really hard to hold ' winners ' till they are long term . Even if the price falls a little , you might be up in the net compared to paying out an extra 10 % or more in taxes on your gains . Obviously there 's a balancing act there between when you feel something is ' done ' and the time till it 's long term . . but if you 've held something for 11 months , or 11 months and 2 weeks , odds are you 'd be better off to hold till the one year point and then sell it . 2B ) Capture Losses when you have them by selling and buying a similar stock for a month or something . ( beware the wash sale rule ) to use to offset gains .
<URL> is a good starting point . Specifically , IFF all your credit cards are paid , and you made sure you 've got no outstanding liabilities ( that also accrues interest ) , <URL> might be a good place for 5-10 years timeframes . For grad school , I 'd probably look into cash ISA ( or local equivalent thereof ) - the rate of return is going to be lower , but having it in a separate account at least makes it mentally " out of sight - out of mind " , so you can make sure the money 's there WHEN you need it .
Yes , asking your employer paying you W-2 wages to withhold additional income tax is a convenient way of paying taxes on self-employment income without the hassle of making quarterly payments of estimated tax . This is particularly useful if your self-employment income starts ( or increases dramatically ) towards the end of the year when you already have missed some quarterly payment deadlines . Taxes withheld are regarded as being withheld uniformly through the year even if there was a big increase in withholding in the last few months . That is , one-fourth of the total amount withheld is deemed to have been paid in timely fashion as the quarterly installment due , and so one can avoid penalties for underpayment of tax in earlier quarterly installments . Be sure to include enough to cover the Social Security tax and Medicare tax owed by you on your self-employment income ( both the employer 's share and the employee 's share ) in your calculations when you ask your employer to withhold additional income tax from your wages . As you say , it all goes into the same bucket on your Form 1040 .
It looks like the resource to deciding these is <URL> Concerning the meals , the law seems a bit vague to me . You can exclude the value of meals you furnish to an employee from the employee 's wages if they meet the following tests . They are furnished on your business premises . They are furnished for your convenience . This exclusion does not apply if you allow your employee to choose to receive additional pay instead of meals . If the whole point of google providing meals is to benefit Google as such people will not leave the googleplex when to obtain meals elsewhere causing increased productivity for Google , then this is covered as a business expense . ( Even if it was n't , Google would have to notify you that it was providing you a non-expensable benefit , i.e. compensation , by giving you a 1099 at the end of the year ) . Concerning the other benefits , the only way I could see those items not being taxable benefits is if one of the two applies . The employee is compelled to live on the premises in order to perform their job duties . Perhaps a butler . Perhaps they live in a research center far from civilization ? Those are the only two I can think of off hand . . Obviously the employee would n't need a credit card in this case . The employee 's job consists of 100 % travel time .
Some features to be aware of are : Annual fee ( or lack thereof ) Payment network ( Visa/MasterCard/American Express/Discover/etc . ) Cash back/rewards rate ( i.e. , how much cash/rewards points you get per dollar charged ) Interest rate Foreign transaction fee Extra benefits ( e.g. , free FICO score , " purchase protection " where you can get a refund in certain circumstances , etc. ) Credit score requirements ( i.e. , how good your credit must be to obtain the card ) How you prioritize these features will depend on your specific circumstances . For instance , if your credit score is poor , you may have to choose among cards you can get with that score , and not have much choice on other dimensions . If you frequently travel abroad , a low or zero foreign transaction fee may be important ; if you never do , it probably does n't matter . If you always pay the balance in full , interest rate is less important than it is if you carry a balance . If you frequently travel by air , an airline card may be useful to you ; if you do n't , you may prefer some other kind of rewards , or cash back . Cards differ along numerous dimensions , especially in the " extra benefits " area , which is often the most difficult area to assess , because in many cases you ca n't get a full description of these extra benefits until after you get the card . A lot of the choice depends on your personal preferences ( e.g. , whether you want airline miles , rewards points of some sort , or cash back ) . Lower fees and interest rates are always better , but it 's up to you to decide if a higher fee of some sort outweighs the accompanying benefits ( e.g. , a better rewards rate ) . A useful site for finding good offers is <URL> .
While I do n't disagree with the other answers as far as CD laddering goes ( at least in principle ) , three months CDs are currently getting much lower rates than money market accounts , at least according to <URL> . A savings account is also more liquid than CDs . Bonds are another option , and they can generally be liquidated quickly on the secondary market . However , they can go down in value if interest rates rise ( actually this is true of CDs as well -- there is a secondary market , though I believe only for brokerage CDs ? ) . Bottom line , A high yield savings account is likely your best best . As others noted , you should think of your emergency fund as savings , not investment .
There are two issues here : arithmetic and psychology . Scenario 1 : You are presently paying an extra $ 500 per month on your student loan , above the minimum payments . Your credit card company offers a $ 4000 cash advance at 0 % for 8 months . So you take the cash advance , pay it toward the student loan , and then instead of paying the extra $ 500 per month toward the student loan you use that $ 500 for 8 months to repay the cash advance . Net result : You pay 0 % interest on the loan , and save roughly 8 months times $ 4000 times the interest on the student loan divided by two . ( I say " divided by two " because it 's not the difference between $ 4000 and zero , but between $ 4000 and the $ 500 you would have been paying off each month . ) Clearly you are better off . If you are NOT presently paying an extra $ 500 on the student loan -- or even if you are but it is a struggle to come up with the money -- then the question becomes , can you reasonably expect to be able to pay off the credit card before the grace period runs out ? Interest rates on credit cards are normally much higher than interest rates on student loans . If you get the cash advance and then ca n't repay it , after 8 months you are paying a very steep interest rate , and anything you saved on the student loan will quickly be lost . What I mean by " psychological " is that you have to have the discipline to really repay the credit card within the grace period . If you 're not very confidant that you can do that , this plan could go bad very quickly . Personally , I 've thought about doing things like this many times -- cash advances against credit cards , home equity loans , etc , all give low-interest money that could be used to pay off a higher-interest debt . But it 's easy to get into trouble doing things like this . It 's easy to say to yourself , Well , I do n't need to put ALL the money toward that other debt , I could keep a thousand or so to buy that big screen TV I really need . Or to fail to pay back the low-interest loan on schedule because other things keep coming up that you spend your money on instead , whether frivolous luxuries or true emergencies . And there 's always the possibility that something will happen to mess up your finances , from a big car repair bill to losing your job . You do n't want to paint yourself into a corner . Finally , maxing out your credit cards hurts your credit rating . The formulas are secret , but I understand that if you use more than half your available credit , that 's a minus . How much it hurts you depends on lots of factors .
Long term : Assuming you sold stock ABC through a registered stock exchange , e.g. , the Bombay Stock Exchange or the National Stock Exchange of India , and you paid the <URL> ( STT ) , you do n't owe any other taxes on the long term capital gain of INR 100 . If you buy stock BCD afterwards , this does n't affect the long term capital gains from the sale of stock ABC . Short term : If you sell the BCD stock ( or the ABC stock , or some combination therein ) within one year of its purchase , you 're required to pay short term capital gains on the net profit , in which case you pay the STT and the exchange fees and an additional flat rate of 15 % . The Income Tax Department of India has a <URL> titled " How to Compute your Capital Gains , " which goes into more detail about a variety of relevant situations .
Hi Alex. I 've been alerted you 're seeking a better answer to this question . ;-) Please accept my apologies for not coming back to this question sooner -- it got buried . : - / No , in general you can not make an early withdrawal penalty-free from a 403 ( b ) account to use towards the purchase of a home . Withdrawals before age 591/2 are generally subject to the 10 % early withdrawal penalty , on top of ordinary income tax . Some 403 ( b ) plans may allow for a loan , but the availability and conditions vary by plan . If you 'd consider a loan , you should check with your plan administrator or your plan 's Summary Plan Description -- often available at one 's company intranet or HR web site . ( I do contract work for an HR consulting firm that assists others in building such sites , and SPDs are usually something made available for download in a " Retirement " or " Wealth " section of such web sites . ) Note that a loan from a 403 ( b ) would need to be paid back into the plan over some period of time , e.g. 5 years , though I have come across examples of <URL> <URL> that do permit a longer pay back period of 10 , 15 , even 30 years if the loan is used for a home purchase . But consider this article : <URL> Finally , to your last point : Yes , if you have an IRA , there are rules permitting withdrawal of up to $ 10,000 penalty-free for use towards the purchase of a first home . See page 53 in <URL> . There 's also a good article at <URL> . Such a withdrawal from a traditional IRA remains subject to ordinary income tax . If have a Roth IRA , you can withdraw free of income tax but you need to pay attention to the <URL> . Additional Resources : <URL>
According to the <URL> , there are lots of situations in which you can not ask the IRS to figure your tax . Some common ones include : you itemize deductions , you have capital gains , you earned over $ 100K , or you want your refund direct-deposited . Some reasons why you might not want the IRS to figure your tax even if you are eligible to have them do so would be ... the same reason why you might not want an accountant doing your taxes : there 's no guarantee that they 'll do it correctly . if you do n't have itemized deductions , high income , or weird forms of income , then you 've already done most of the work by the time you get to Line 28 . It 's trivial to do the last couple steps to figure out how much tax you owe . if the IRS figures your tax amount and you still owe money , then you have to wait for the IRS to get back to you , then cut a check , then worry if the check got there on time , etc. . The extra back-and-forth can be a hassle .
If the employer included the reimbursement in the taxable wages portion of your w2 then you can take a deduction . This is most likely not the case . If the reimbursement is not included in your taxable wages then just leave the 1098 off your return . You are not entitled to any tax benefit because of it .
Your taxes are only slightly more complex than previous years . Therefore if you were comfortable doing your taxes using software last year , you should n't have any problems doing them this year . Both the software and professional should use how you answer a few basic questions , and the information on your paperwork , to guide you though your options . They will calculate the different approaches and present you with the options . One thing that you will need is a social security number for the child in order to claim them as a dependent . So If you have n't started the <URL> you should do so now .
First suggestion - talk to a State-licensed tax practitioner ( CPA in your state ) , because this can be nasty . As I mentioned in the comments - its a serious offence , and your employer may get in trouble . But the fact that you ( or your boss ) think you were misclassified does n't necessarily make you so . For you it is of course better to be a W2 employee - less FICA . But on the other hand - also less withholding ( probably too late to worry about it now ) , less unemployment compensation , less worker 's compensation , etc. . For employer 1099 is better for the same reasons : they do n't need to pay payroll taxes ( FICA/FUTA/State taxes/insurance/etc ) , less liability and less benefits . That is why such a misclassification is an offence , and a serious one , for the employer . They wo n't admit it unless they have to , and if they have to - they will have to correct . However since its a prior year , some things may be difficult to address properly now and you may be stuck . Its not just a matter of forms . I suggest taking this to a professional consultation . Do n't take tax advice from your boss .
end question
start question
Can you use external money to pay trading commissions in tax-free and tax-deferred accounts ?
According to <URL> , broker 's commissions for stock transactions within an IRA can not be paid in addition to the IRA contribution ( s ) , but they are deductible as part of the contribution , or add to the basis if you are making a nondeductible contribution to a Traditional IRA . ( Top of Page 10 , and Page 12 , column 1 , in the 2012 edition of Pub 590 ) . On the other hand , trustees ' administrative fees can be paid from outside the IRA if they are billed separately , and are even deductible as a Miscellaneous Deduction on Schedule A of your income tax return ( subject to the 2 % of AGI threshold ) . A long time ago , when my IRA account balances were much smaller , I used to get a bill from my IRA custodian for a $ 20 annual administrative fee which I paid separately ( but never got to deduct due to the 2 % threshold ) . My custodian also allowed the option of doing nothing in which case the $ 20 would be collected from ( and thus reduce ) the amount of money in my IRA . Note that this does not apply to the expenses charged by the mutual funds that you might have in your IRA ; these expenses are treated the same as brokerage commissions and must be paid from within the IRA .
Any interest [ even Rs 1 ] received to from Savings Bank is taxable [ provided you total income including interest is taxable ] . If the Amount of Interest is less than Rs 10,000 / - Bank need not deduct tax at source . This does not mean you are not liable to pay tax . If you total income is less than Rs 5,00,000 and interest income less than Rs 10,000 ; you can indicate you savings interest to your employer who would deduct tax and you need not file any return . Refer to <URL> If the total tax obligation that is not paid by 15th March is less than Rs 10,000 you can pay the tax online without any penalty as " Self Assessment Tax " upto 31-July . <URL> There is / was a proposal to exempt Interest from Savings Account [ and not from Fixed Deposits or Recurring Deposits ] upto Rs 10,000 . This is applicable from 1-Apr-2013 and would be for current financial year . <URL>
Here 's the basic equations : the key is to figure out which ' side ' ( pre - or post-tax ) you want compare in and get everything to that . Post-Tax Amount -- > Pre-Tax : If you are going to pay $ 100 after tax , then to compare it as a pre-tax amount , you need a tax rate ... Ballpark your tax rate . Withholding rates are a good place to start , but has others pointed out in the comments , this will just be an estimate . Look at your last paystub , and divide the total withheld for Federal and State taxes by the total you were actually paid that period ( not the check amount ) . For simplicity 's sake , let 's say that 's 20 % . Then in theory you would be willing to pay $ 100 / ( 1 - 0.2 ) = $ 125 . The formula would be ( Post Tax ) / ( 1 - tax rate ) = Post Tax . Pre-Tax Amount -- > Post-Tax Just do a bit of algebra and flip the formula above . Pre-tax Amount * ( 1 - rate ) = Post Tax Amount
There is the <URL> , and of course the general risk of any balloon-style loan . While you think that you have enough self-discipline , you never know what may happen that may prevent you from having enough cash at hands to pay the accumulated tax at the end of the year . If you try to do more risky investments ( trying to maximize the opportunity ) you may lose some of the money , or have some other kind of emergency that may preempt the tax payment .
There are countries out there that are known as tax havens , where they offer companies low or no taxes on earned revenue . I have n't looked into this in over a decade , but recall that countries like the Cayman Islands , Switzerland , Ireland , and Nauru , to name a few fit that tag . But like bstpierre stated , there 's a reason why the IBM 's of the world can pull that off easier then us mere mortals . They have the financial clout to make sure they have accountants that dot every i , cross every t , and close every loophole that would give an " in " to the folks at the IRS , CRA , Inland Revenue , or who have you .
Aside from the fear that you or a loved one will spend it frivolously , I 'm hard pressed to come up with another reason . If you 'll owe money in the next tax year , you have the rest of the year to adjust your withholdings and/or make quarterly payments . As both my fellow PFers state , you 're better off getting your money back . Better still , use it to pay off a high interest debt .
I found the answer to what you 're looking for in the <URL> . Refer specifically to the question <URL> . Quote : We take the extra step to confirm your card so that we can verify that the card is valid and that you are the card owner . To confirm your card , we 'll charge $ 1.95 to it . After the card is confirmed , we 'll refund the amount to your PayPal balance . Here are amounts for cards in other countries : $ 2.45 CAD $ 1.50 EUR 1.00 GBP 200 JPY 2.00 AUD 3.00 NZD 3.00 CHF 15.00 HKD 15.00 SEK 12.50 DKK 6.50 PLN 15.00 NOK 400.00 HUF 50.00 CZK 4.00 BRL 10.00 MYR 20.00 MXN 8.00 ILS 100.00 PHP 70.00 TWD 70.00 THB If we ca n't determine or do n't support your card 's currency , we charge $ 1.95 USD to the card . ( Refer directly to PayPal for potentially more up-to-date information . )
No , in the UK you do n't need to pay tax on gifts in general . In theory there could be an <URL> issue . But it 's highly unlikely to apply here . It could only apply at all if all of the below apply : you are n't married to each other you die within 7 years of a gift the total of the money you leave at death plus the gifts in the past 7 years is more than the inheritance tax threshold , currently # 325,000 But even then the allowance would probably count as a " <URL> " and so would be ignored completely : Regular gifts from the giver 's income There 's no Inheritance Tax on gifts from the deceased 's income ( after they paid tax ) as long as the deceased had enough money to maintain their normal lifestyle .
Withdrawals from 401k and ( non-Roth ) IRA accounts , assuming all contributions were pre-tax as is probably typical , are taxed as ordinary income . This includes money from all sources : contributions , interest , capital gains , etc. . This means that Treasury bonds have no tax advantage over any other investment when they are held within a 401k or IRA . Since Treasury bonds pay lower interest rates than other bonds and in these accounts are taxed the same way , they are usually considered inappropriate for 401k 's and IRA ( for other than " safety " concerns ) .
The US does n't have a Value Added Tax , which is the one usually refundable upon departing the country ... so sales taxes you pay in this country stay in this country and you do n't get a refund . Just remember to treat the tax as an implied part of the price . ( And be aware that state and local taxes may vary , so the total price may be higher in one place than in another . New York City adds a few percent on top of the state sales tax , for example . ) If you are n't sure how much tax would be , do n't be afraid to ask .
Basically , yes . That does n't mean that it 's easy to do . The government provides a dividend tax credit since an individual takes on more risk to invest in dividend-paying corporations rather than trading their human capital for an income . Thus , for the most part , $ 1 earned from dividends is taxed much less than $ 1 earned from income or interest . Finally , note that foreign dividends are not eligible for the dividend tax credit , and are not preferentially taxed .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
You can open a <URL> , here 's an example . You can deposit up to 50K ( including the personal cap and the profit sharing/matching portion ) .
I ca n't speak to New Zealand law , but under US law , it 's not a gift , so there is no tax . But there are some practical considerations . How good a relationship do you have with the banks on each end of the transfer ? Transfers in the neighborhood of USD$ 10,000 are automatically considered suspicious and the banks are required to take extra steps to ensure you are not laundering the proceeds of criminal activity , funding terrorism , evading taxes , etc. . You will have to fill out quite a bit of paperwork .
Yes . But once you chose the method ( on your first tax return ) , you can not change it without the IRS approval . Similarly the fiscal year . For individuals , I ca n't think of any reason why would accrual basis be better than cash , or why would an individual use a fiscal year other than the calendar year .
It is n't the first initiative ( see link below ) and maybe this one will stick around . Time will be a good test . Here is an article on it ... <URL> They plan to make money off unused balances - so they hope to get the masses signed up using the 0 $ fees . Also , no type of advanced trading , just limit and market orders . Think of it this way - even if someone puts in 100 $ and buys a stock at 88 $ ... that 12 $ sits there . Multiply that by say ... 200,000 accounts and then do a basic 3 % return on that . Also , they plan for margin accounts in the future . Time will tell ... sort of like I use Acorn right now ( but it charges a fee to invest - a slightly higher than normal one ) . I signed up for fun and am just letting it ride .
putting tax free investments into your traditional IRA I 'm not religious , but I know there 's a special place in hell for anyone advising this . Your Roth is tax free regardless of what was held inside . Your traditional IRA if funded with pre-tax money , is 100 % taxed on withdrawals regardless of what was invested in the account . I 'll give the author the benefit of the doubt and assume you misunderstood . I see Ed Slott wrote the introduction to that book , and Mr Slott knows his stuff . If not , the author got it very wrong .
Yes , wait . While the bank promises to process the deposit quickly , there is still a window of a number of days . Many people have found themselves with high overdraft fees when the withdraws came before the deposits . best case : it all works out worse case : high fees worst case : the overdraft causes a ripple effect across accounts , or the airline transaction is voided .
You can , but for incomes less than $ 58K you can also use <URL> . I 'm guessing IRS assumed that people would prefer to use software if they can , rather than raw forms . I would assume the same .
From the article <URL> The IRS has some advice for taxpayers who missed the tax filing deadline . File as soon as possible . If you owe federal income tax , you should file and pay as soon as you can to minimize any penalty and interest charges . There is no penalty for filing a late return if you are due a refund .
end question
start question
Do my kids need to file a tax return ?
No they do not . From <URL> , a single , non-blind dependent under age 65 must file if the following are true : You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was over $ 1,000 . Your earned income was over $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- $ 1,000 , or Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 . There is no return required for receipt of a gift .
Well , one of the requirements for you to be able to claim someone as a dependent is that he/she must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien . So the key issue here is whether your parents are resident aliens . Someone is a resident alien if they pass either the substantial presence test , or the green card test . Your parents do n't have green cards , so it 's the substantial presence test that is relevant . This is where how long they 've stayed in the U.S. is important . They satisfy the substantial presence test for 2013 if : ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2013 ) + 1/3 of ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2012 ) + 1/6 of ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2011 ) > = 183 days . Do they satisfy that ? If they do , then they are resident aliens for 2013 . If they are resident aliens , then they can be claimed as dependents . Note-1 : if they are resident aliens , all their worldwide income would be subject to U.S. taxes . Note-2 : As per this <URL> , to pass substantial presence test , you have to be in USA atleast 30 days for the current year in addition 183 days calculation which includes current year and last two years / .
In the US , you just file an amended return . TurboTax will even do it ( probably other tax software will too ) . See <URL> for details . If you discover an error after your return has been mailed , you may need to amend your return . The service center may correct errors in math on a return and may accept returns with certain forms or schedules left out . In these instances , do not amend your return ! However , do file an amended return if your filing status , your income , your deductions or credits are incorrect
The answer is no . A superannuation fund will have it 's own tax return , and any net loses during a financial year will be carried forward to offset superannuation gains in future income years . If you have a SMSF , then the SMSF will have to complete and lodge its own tax return .
One of the reasons , apart from historical , is that different people have different tax liabilities which the employer may not be aware of . For example , in the US we do n't pay taxes in source on investment income , and there are many credits and deductions that we ca n't take . So if I have a child and some interest income from my savings account - employer 's withholding will not match my actual tax liability . There are credits for children , additional taxes for the interest , and the actual tax brackets vary based on my marital status and filing options I chose . So even the same family of two people married will pay different amounts in taxes if they chose to file separate tax returns for each , than if they chose to file jointly on one tax return . For anyone who 've lived anywhere else , like you and me , this system is ridiculously complex and inefficient , but for Americans - that works . Mainly for the reason of not knowing anything better , and more importantly - not wanting to know .
Yes , you can make the election to file your LLC as an S-Corp , and Turbo Tax Business can help you with the S-Corp business return . You need to make sure you 're set up correctly and there are a lot of things to be aware of . For example , the whole " reasonable salary " thing is a can of worms . So while the answer to your question is " yes , it 's manageable , you can do it on your own , " it might be worthwhile to have a professional help you the first year , make sure it 's set up right , and then you can do it on your own in subsequent years .
Only nonresident alien F1 are <URL> ( Social Security tax and Medicare tax ) ; resident alien F1 are still subject to FICA taxes ( except students on in-school employment ) . Since according to you you are a resident alien because you have been here more than 5 calendar years , you are subject to FICA taxes , regardless of whether you file jointly with your spouse or not . You should inform your employer that you are not exempt from FICA because you are a resident alien , and they should withhold FICA taxes from you . However , withholding it is the employer 's responsibility , and it is they who owe the taxes to the government , not you . If they refuse to withhold it , there is nothing you can do , and nothing you need to worry about . The tax return is about income taxes . FICA taxes are generally not reported on the tax return , and do not affect your income taxes . There is nothing you need to " amend " on your tax return .
At the end of the year , the mutual fund company sends you a statement like any other investment and it has a bunch of boxes that you copy into your tax return software . Then you just check the box that says ' tax-exempt ' and you 're done .
Simply file an amended return to correct the mistake . This happens all the time and is a standard procedure that every legitimate tax pro can handle . You can work it out with the tax pro about whose mistake it was and who should pay for the additional service .
Yes , you pay interest , but the interest is applied to the price of the underlying shorted not the amount of cash proceeds of the sale since the underlying is what 's borrowed not underlying . The interest will increase the value of the short liability and will contribute to a diminishing maintenance margin . The cash is posted as collateral , so the net of interest charged by borrowing the underlying less the interest received from the cash collateral is what 's paid . Sometimes , when there is no demand to short a particular underlying , and a broker passes these rates through less a fee , the loan balance can actually decrease because the interest received from the cash collateral exceeds the interest paid on the underlying . While interest is charged and applied daily between brokers , the broker may charge this on nearly any basis they please .
<URL> : Include taxes ( state , local , or foreign ) paid on real estate you own that was not used for business . ... If you want to make a business out of her property and be her agent in the management , you might be able to work with an accountant on this , but it wo n't be a valid personal deduction .
Did the W-2 you received from your employer have a value in Box 12 with a code of W ? If yes then the company already accounted for their contribution and your pre-tax contribution on the W-2 . You should have submitted form <URL> and <URL> . If you used software to complete your tax forms this should have been done automatically . Your contributions and the companies contributions should be on line 9 . If No , this is more complex because your contributions were made after tax , because your contributions would not appear on the W-2 . You will have to gather the documents from the HSA administrator . Those contributions not made via paycheck withholding are entered on line 2 of form 8889 . If you did n't include form 8889 you will need to file an amended return .
As long as the baby was born by December 31 , 2015 , he can be claimed as a dependent by his parents for tax year 2015 . He should definitely be claimed as a dependent ; it will save them money on their taxes , and there is no reason not to . The baby does not need to file a tax return , but he does need a Social Security number in order for the parents to claim him as a dependent and claim child tax credits . Often Social Security numbers are applied for at the hospital right at birth , so he might already have one , but if for some reason this was not done , they will need to visit a Social Security office to apply for one . The question about whether or not a married couple should file jointly has nothing to do with the fact that they had a baby . If they are planning on filing jointly , we do n't have any information that would suggest this is a bad idea .
You may want to start a company for a few reasons , the main one would be liability , you do n't want your friend to drop a weight on a foot and sue you for millions taking your house away . You 'd need to pay taxes on the income , that 's after you pay all your expenses , bills , mortgage interest , insurance premiums ( ! ) , equipment depreciation . So it 's going to be a lot less than you collect from your friends . Whether you incorporate or not you have to pay taxes on your income . If it 's $ 200/year IRS may not notice that , if it 's $ 20K a month it would be very hard to hide . If you pay your friends more than some amount ( check the laws ) you 'd need to tell IRS about it ( issue 1099-misc ) , then your friends must pay taxes on that income .
Is it true that you can not amend a tax return to include both a futures loss carry back and a Schedule C at the same time ? No , it is not true . You can include all the changes necessary in a single amended return , attaching statement explaining each of the changes . However you 're talking about two different kinds of changes . Futures loss carryback is a <URL> carryback and not a correction of an error . Adding Schedule C would be a correction of an error . I 'm guessing your CPA wants to separate the two kinds to avoid the situation where the IRS refuses to accept your correction of an error and by the way also does n't accept the Sec . 1212 carryback on the same return . Or the CPA just wants to charge you twice for amendments .
To the best of my understanding , the CPA is wrong . You can only deduct the contributions in the year you made them . From the <URL> : There shall be allowed as a deduction any charitable contribution ( as defined in subsection ( c ) ) payment of which is made within the taxable year . A charitable contribution shall be allowable as a deduction only if verified under regulations prescribed by the Secretary . A discussion on the topic on the <URL> : As with all itemized deductions , timing is everything . You can take the deduction for your contribution in the year that you make it . If the amounts are substantial , you can amend the return for that year and claim the additional deduction . If it is indeed the CPA 's omission , I 'd expect him to prepare the amended return for you at no charge .
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
In the U.S. , <URL> is known as the tax return . This is the form that is filed annually to calculate your tax due for the year , and you either claim a refund if you have overpaid your taxes or send in a payment if you have underpaid . The form is generally due on April 15 each year , but this year the due date is April 18 , 2016 . When it comes to filing your taxes , there are two questions you need to ask yourself : " Am I required to file ? " and " Should I file ? " Am I required to file ? The <URL> has a section called " Do I have to file ? " with several charts that determine if you are legally required to file . It depends on your status and your gross income . If you are single , under 65 , and not a dependent on someone else 's return , you are not required to file if your 2015 income was less than $ 10,300 . If you will be claimed as a dependent on someone else 's return , however , you must file if your earned income ( from work ) was over $ 6300 , or your unearned income ( from investments ) was over $ 1050 , or your gross ( total ) income was more than the larger of either $ 1050 or your earned income + $ 350 . See the instructions for more details . Should I file ? Even if you find that you are not required to file , it may be beneficial to you to file anyway . There are two main reasons you might do this : If you have had income where tax has been taken out , you may have overpaid the tax . Filing the tax return will allow you to get a refund of the amount that you overpaid . As a student , you may be eligible for student tax credits that can get you a refund even if you did not pay any tax during the year . How to file For low income tax payers , the IRS has a program called <URL> that provides free filing software options .
Yes , you can still file your amended return . The statute tolls with the late filing . Per <URL> : File Form 1040X only after you have filed your original return . Generally , for a credit or refund , you must file Form 1040X within 3 years ( including extensions ) after the date you filed your original return or within 2 years after the date you paid the tax , whichever is later . If you filed your original return early ( for example , March 1 for a calendar year return ) , your return is considered filed on the due date ( generally April 15 ) . However , if you had an extension to file ( for example , until October 15 ) but you filed earlier and we received it July 1 , your return is considered filed on July 1 . If it makes you feel better , three years later filing is not extreme . Congrats on starting the clock for the statue of limitations on 2010 tax year . Also note that there is <URL> to amend a return for information that was accurate to the best of your knowledge at the time . Which I assume is not the case for you .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
end question
start question
Are factory outlet stores really cheaper these days ?
They can be cheaper . For instance , my Wife bought stuff at the Gymboree Factory Outlet . They tend to give out more Gymboree Bucks ( e.g. Coupons ) . They also seem to run a lot more deals . YMMV . The factory outlet malls also seem to just have more variety for the brands that you like .
They can be cheaper . For instance , my Wife bought stuff at the Gymboree Factory Outlet . They tend to give out more Gymboree Bucks ( e.g. Coupons ) . They also seem to run a lot more deals . YMMV . The factory outlet malls also seem to just have more variety for the brands that you like .
You are correct that it could refer to any of the types of interest rates that you 've mentioned . In general , though , phrases such as " rising interest rates " and " falling interest rates " refer to the <URL> or <URL> . These are the interest rates at which banks in the U.S. and U.K. , respectively , are lending money to each other .
From <URL> The facts that affect a company 's underlying value . Examples of business fundamentals include debt , cash flow , supply of and demand for the company 's products , and so forth . For instance , if a company does not have a sufficient supply of products , it will fail . Likewise , demand for the product must remain at a certain level in order for it to be successful . Strong business fundamentals are considered essential for long-term success and stability . See also : Value Investing , Fundamental Analysis . For a stock the basic fundamentals are the second column of numbers you see on the google finance summary page , P/E ratio , div/yeild , EPS , shares , beta . For the company itself it 's generally the stuff on the ' financials ' link ( e.g. things in the quarterly and annual report , debt , liabilities , assets , earnings , profit etc. .
In the US , they 're usually not . The coupon payments from bonds underlying the ETF are usually paid out as distributions to investors . <URL> , as well as <URL> state that many bond ETF 's pay coupon payments out as distributions on a monthly basis ( quoted portion is from Investopedia ) : Bond ETFs pay out interest through a monthly dividend , while any capital gains are paid out through an annual dividend . ETF distributions are n't normally reinvested in the underlying fund automatically because this would incur additional commissions . Some brokers offer an option to reinvest distributions , but the availability of this option depends on the broker , not the fund , so you wo n't find information about it in the prospectus . For example , Vanguard states on <URL> that investors looking to reinvest distributions from Vanguard ETF 's should ask their brokerage firm if this is an option . <URL> and <URL> also state that for individual investors , distribution reinvestment varies on a per-broker basis .
You likely received the shares as ordinary income for services of $ 10k , since they withheld taxes at granting . Separately , you likely had a short term capital loss on sale of $ 2k , since your holding period seems to have been under one year .
Gail Vaz-Oxlade has a great interactive budget on her website , www.gailvazoxlade.com . If you watch Til Debt Do Us Part , this spreadsheet will automatically tell you how much to put in your " jars " each week in each category too ! Good luck .
They borrowed it from the people , and typically to finance wars and military spending . For example , Wikipedia suggests that the Bank of England <URL> It 's a game that everyone has to play once started ; if Napoleon buys an army on credit , you 'll have to raise an equal amount or face quite a problem . As for why they 've grown so large , it 's because governments are quite skilled at owing large sums of money . Only a small portion of the debt comes due in full at a given moment , and they constantly reissue new debt via auction to keep it rolling . So as long as they can make coupon ( interest ) and the lump sum at maturity , it 's not difficult to keep up . Imagine how much credit card debt you could rack up if you only ever had to pay interest . This game will continue for as long as people lend . And there are plenty of lenders . There 's pensions , mutual funds and endowments , which find public debt typically safer than stocks . And money market funds , which target 1 dollar NAV and only invest in the " safest " AAA-rated bonds to protect it . There 's central banks , which can buy and sell public debt to manipulate inflation and exchange rates . Absent some kind of UN resolution to ban lending , or perhaps a <URL> , these debts will likely continue to grow . You think they " collectively owe more money than can exist " , but there 's a lot of wealth in the world . Most nations owe less than a year 's GDP . For example , the US 's total wealth is in the neighborhood of 50 trillion .
Look at the previous owner and the maintenance records they have for the car . Someone who has regularly serviced the car ( and I mean more than just an oil change , preferably maintenance history from a reputable garage or main dealer [ 1 ] ) and has n't skimped on it . Also , keep in mind that the newer the car , the more electronic components they have that can go expensively wrong , especially if you fall prey to a garage whose method for debugging electronics is to throw components at the car for a grand a pop . I tend to look for the following ( but I am a bit " special " when it comes to buying vehicles ) : Clean vehicle . Someone who ca n't even be bothered to chuck out ten days ' worth of burger wrappers and empty drinks cans before showing a car to a prospective buyer obviously cares so much about the car that they take good care of it , right . Matched , name brand tires . That 's a bit of an odd one but a good indicator that someone 's willing to spend money on their car . If you see a car with four different tires on , three of them made in North Korea , that 's not a good sign Check the colour of the brake fluid - the darker it is , the older it is . Most people will change the oil regularly but forget about the brake fluid , even though that should be changed every year or two , too . It 's a good indicator of how thoroughly the vehicle has been serviced . Maintenance receipts . You want someone who keeps the receipts to show what work has been done . The stamp in the service book is n't worth that much unless you can go see the garage who did the work . Plus , stamps have appeared in service books after the right person suddenly found themselves in possession of a Benjamin . Before you go see a vehicle , go find the forum for it and have a look for the sort of problems people tend to encounter with the vehicles . Google for problem with this particular model , find out if there are any recalls etc. . Make sure you ask the seller specific questions about these issues and if you like the vehicle but get " dunno " as the regular answer , get someone to check it out . Find out who the car nut at work is ( you know , the guy who drives odd cars , has more T-shirt with oil stains than without them and tends to have permanent ingrained oil residue under their fingernails ) and ask him nicely if he 'd be willing to help you check out a car . Most of us will if we 've got the time , and most of us have made pretty much every purchase mistake in the book . More than once , but we should be able to recognise it and stop you from falling into the same trap . Once you found something you like , get it checked out by a mechanic , preferably by a specialist for the make/model or at least a main dealer . Get them to provide you with a list of work the vehicle needs and have them explain to you the importance of each line item . If the vehicle requires work - especially when the seller kind of forgot/didn ' t realise certain work was needed - go back and haggle or walk away . Do n't , ever , believe what a used car salesweasel tells you . If they tell you it 's afternoon , get a second independent opinion . Yes , I know there are a few good helpful ones out there but there are also a bunch of rip-off artists out there and IMHO they are the majority as that seems to be the way that most dealerships load the dice . If you are searching for a car as a transportation appliance ( as opposed to someone like me who tends to seek out a vehicle because I want a specific model ) , be prepared to walk away from a vehicle . Do n't get emotionally attached to it because it 's the correct colour and thus overlook the hole in the floor that would make Fred Flintstone proud . Work out what the vehicle is worth , have a look at the work it needs and if the two numbers do n't look good together , go walk . And do n't forget the golden rules of car buying : Never buy the first one you see . If you are looking for a specific model , make sure you check out several so you get a feel if one of them is a dog . Buy the best condition car you can afford within your budget . That 's condition , not mileage or extras . Extras are mostly worth zilch anyway , and I 'd rather have a car with 100k on it that 's maintained perfectly than one with 25k on the clock that 's never had brake fluid or an oil change . [ 1 ] Unfortunately that might not be one and the same place
If you can borrow for an asset that gives you income that 's more than the cost of carrying the debt , then go for it . But the kinds of debts you have now are n't those kinds of debt , so get rid of them .
VIV.PA - is Vivendi listed on a stock exchange in Paris VIVEF - is Vivendi listed on the OTC Other Exchange . VIVHY - is Listed on the OTC : Pink Sheets . A company can be listed on multiple exchanges , they are known as a dual-listed company . It 's a corporate structure in which two corporations function as a single operating business through a legal equalization agreement , but retain separate legal identities and stock exchange listings . Pretty much all DLCs are cross-border , and have tax advantages for the corporations and their stockholders . When a DLC is created , in essence two companies are created and have two separate bodies of shareholders , but they agree to share all the risks and rewards of the ownership of all their operating businesses in a fixed proportion , laid out in a contract called an " equalization agreement " . The shares of a DLC parents have claim to the exact same underlying cash flows . So in theory the stock prices of these companies should move exactly the same . However in practice there can be differences between these prices . More info on OTC exchanges can be found <URL> - keep in mind this info is from the company that runs these listings . Over the counter stocks are held to a FAR lesser regulation standard . I would recommend doing further interdependent research before pursuing any action .
The rule defines a wash sale as one that occurs when an individual sells or trades a security at a loss , and within 30 days before or after this sale , buys a " substantially identical " stock or security , or acquires a contract or option to do so . <URL> Does n't matter whether purchase or sale happened first , wash sale rules apply In your example you would have a net gain from the two sales so it would n't matter . Let 's use a different example . Let 's say I buy stock XYZ in January . 100 shares at $ 30/share . Now December comes around and it 's down to 20/share so on December 20th I sell so I can write off the loss on my taxes . Now on the 21st I buy those shares back for 20/share . Wash sale rules prevent me from writing off the loss on my taxes , instead I must adjust the basis of my new shares . The same would be true if instead I had bought 100 now shares on the 20th and sold 100 a day later in the 21st . Wash sale rules would still prevent me from counting that loss .
Two different takes on an answer ; the net-loss concept you mentioned and a core-business concept . If a store is actually a net-loss , and anybody is willing to buy it , it may well make sense to sell it . Depending on your capital value invested , and how much it would take you to make it profitable , it may be a sound business decision to sell the asset . The buyer of the asset is of course expecting for some reason to make it not a net loss for them ( perhaps they have other stores in the vicinity and can then share staff or stock somehow ) . The core-business is a fuzzier concept . Investors seem to go in cycles , like can like well-diversified companies that are resilient to a market downturn in one sector , but then they also like so-called pure-play companies , where you are clear on what you are owning . To try an example ( which is likely not the case here ) , lets say that Sunoco in 5 % of its stores had migrated away from a gas-station model to a one-stop-gas-and-repairs model . Therefore they had to have service bays , parts , and trained staff at those locations . These things are expensive , and could be seen as not their area of expertise ( selling gas ) . So as an investor , if I want to own gas stations , I do n't want to own a full service garage , so perhaps I invest in somebody else . Once they sell off their non-core assets , they free up capital to do what they know best . It is at least one possible explanation .
I did receive TurboTax 's automatically generated confirmation of successfully completing tax filing electronically the day I did my tax on their web site . About 24 to 48 hours after you push the button at TurboTax the IRS should either confirm or reject the initial check of the tax documents . You should return to the TurboTax website to make sure the IRS has accepted the reutrn . Next review either the confirmation you received when you pushed the button or the information at the TurboTax site . It should specify when the money would be withdrawn . You were given options regarding payment method and date you want to make the payment . Many people who finish their tax paperwork early , but owe money wait until the last day to submit . Now it is possible to submit paperwork early but specify a date just before the deadline . Print out or even better save an electronic copy of the information at the TurboTax website . I have no idea how long it takes the IRS to actually pull the money from an account , once the day you specified has occurred . You have to plan as if the withdraw will happen on the exact date , but with millions of tax payers making transactions it may be delayed by a day or two .
Yes , many banks offer such a service . Often such payments can be made through their " bill pay " interface . You log in to your account on the bank 's website , enter the recipient 's routing and account numbers , and off you go . You could ask your bank whether they offer this . If not , you could change banks to one that does .
The scenario you mention regarding capital gains is pretty much the core of the issue . Here 's a run-down from <URL> that explains it a bit . It 's important to focus on it being the tax rate , not the tax amount ( which I think you get , but I want to reinforce that for other readers ) . Basically , most of Buffett 's income comes from capital gains and dividends , income from investments he makes with the money he already has . Income earned by buying and selling stocks or from stock dividends is generally taxed at 15 percent , the rate for long-term capital gains and qualified dividends . Buffett also mentioned that some of the " mega-rich " are hedge fund managers " who earn billions from our daily labors but are allowed to classify our income as ' carried interest , ' thereby getting a bargain 15 percent tax rate . " We do n't know the taxes paid by Buffett 's secretary , who was mentioned by Obama but not by Buffett . Buffet 's secretary would have to make a high salary , or else typical deductions ( such as the child tax credit ) would offset taxes owed . Let 's say the secretary is a particularly well-compensated executive assistant , making adjusted income more than $ 83,600 in income . ( Yes , that sounds like a lot to us , too , but remember : We 're talking about the secretary to one of the richest people in the world . ) In that case , marginal tax rates of 28 percent would apply . Then , there would be payroll taxes of 6.25 percent on the first $ 106,800 , money that goes to Social Security , and another 1.45 percent on all income , which goes to Medicare . The secretary 's overall tax rate would be lower than 28 percent , since not all the income would be taxed at that rate , only the income above $ 83,600 . Buffett , meanwhile , would pay very little , if anything , in payroll taxes . In the New York Times op-ed , Buffett said he paid 17.4 percent in taxes . Thinking of the secretary , it gets a little complicated , given how the tax brackets work , but basically , people who make between $ 100,000 and $ 200,000 are paying around 20 percent in federal taxes , including payroll and income taxes , according to an analysis from the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center . So in this case , the secretary 's rate is higher because so much of Buffett 's income comes from investments and is taxed at the lower capital gains rate . Here 's Buffet 's <URL> for those of you that are n't familiar .
This is actually a very complicated question . The key reading in this area is a seminal paper by Almgren &amp; Chriss , " Optimal Execution of Portfolio Transactions " ( 2000 ) . They show that there 's a tradeoff between liquidating your portfolio faster and knowing the value with more certainty , versus liquidating more slowly ( and likely for a higher price ) but with less certainty . So for example , if you sold your entire position right now , you would know almost certainly how much you would get for the position . Or , you could sell off your position more slowly , and likely get more money , but you would have less certainty about how much you would get . The paper is available online at <URL>
Some reimbursements are taxable and some are not , that depends on the type of reimbursement and the reporting required . If the reimbursement is from an accountable plan and for qualified expenses - it is not taxable . Otherwise it is . See the relevant section of <URL> for details .
Short answer : Yes You have to report these benefits as income , whether you opt for gift cards or anything else ( I 'm not familiar with what possible options exist for cashing out points ) . If you redeem an aggregate of $ 600 or more throughout the calendar year , they will send you a 1099 to include with your taxes ( and send a copy to the IRS ) . It 's important to note that even if you do n't get $ 600 or more in rewards , you are required to report it as additional income .
Not it does n't , and yes they can . If the audit is closed , you should have received invitation to attend the closing conference , and get the summary of decisions from that meeting in writing . I suggest you check with your tax representative about this refund check before cashing it .
end question
start question
How is a relocation fee of more than 40k taxed ?
It is ordinary income to you . You should probably talk to a California licensed CRTP/EA/CPA , but I doubt they 'll say anything different . You would probably ask them whether you can treat some of it as a refund of rent paid , but I personally would n't feel comfortable with that .
The more you put down now , the less money you are borrowing . 30yrs of interest adds up . Even paying a small amount at the beginning of the mortgage can turn into a huge savings over the life of the loan . That 's why you 'll find advice to make extra mortgage payments in the beginning . The question is : Do you have a better use for that money ? In particular , do you have any higher-interest debt ( higher APR than your mortgage ) that needs to be paid off ? You generally want to take care of those first . Beyond that can you invest the extra down payment money elsewhere ( eg stock market ) and get a better return than your mortgage rate ? ( do n't forget about taxes on investment profits ) . If so , that money will do more good there .
Did you just buy them in 2010 ? If you owned them prior , you might have to amend your returns . Rental property income and expenses is declared on a <URL> and once you add all your expenses along with depreciation , you may show a loss . You can take that loss against ordinary income if your gross income is under a certain level , $ 100k MAGI begns the phaseout range . Otherwise , it carries over . A gain flows to your 1040 as ordinary income . I just saw your edit . You bought these 8 and 3 years prior to posting this question . How were you handling your taxes all this time ?
In case one card is rejected for a payment , whether for a valid or invalid reason In case one card company suffers an IT failure and that card ca n't be used at all So that on holiday you can carry one card with you and keep the other in your hotel safe , and you wo n't be left without means of payment if your wallet is stolen To get a higher credit limit than one card alone will give you
Contributions to a traditional IRA are treated as ordinary income when they 're withdrawn , as well as the earnings .
You are missing something very significant . The money in a traditional IRA ( specifically , a deductible traditional IRA ; there is not really any reason to keep a nondeductible traditional IRA anymore ) is pre-tax . That means when you pay tax on it when you take it out , you are paying tax on it for the first time . If you take ordinary money to invest it in stocks , and then pay capital gains tax on it when you take it out , that is post-tax money to begin with -- meaning that you have already paid ( income ) tax on it once . Then you have to pay tax again on the time-value growth of that money ( i.e. that growth is earned from money that is already taxed ) . That means you are effectively paying tax twice on part of that money . If that does n't make sense to you , and you think that interest , capital gains , etc. is the first time you 're paying tax on the money because it 's growth , then you have a very simplistic view of money . There 's something called time value of money , which means that a certain amount of money is equivalent to a greater amount of money in the future . If you invest $ 100 now and end up with $ 150 in the future , that $ 150 in the future is effectively the same money as the $ 100 now . Let 's consider a few examples . Let 's say you have $ 1000 of pre-tax income you want to invest and withdraw a certain period of time later in retirement . Let 's say you have an investment that grows 100 % over this period of time . And let 's say that your tax rate now and in the future is 25 % ( and for simplicity , assume that all income is taxed at that rate instead of the tax bracket system ) . And capital gains tax is 15 % . Put it in a Traditional IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 grows to $ 2000 , you pay 25 % taxes , end up with $ 1500 Take it in your paycheck , and then invest it in the stock , and withdraw it at the end : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax to $ 750 , the investment grows to $ 1500 , but then you pay capital gains tax of 15 % x $ 750 = $ 112.50 . You end up with $ 1387.50 Put it in a Roth IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax on it to $ 750 ; it then grows to $ 1500 ; you pay no taxes on that You see a few things : Traditional IRA and Roth IRA are equivalent if the tax rates are the same . This is because , in both cases , you pay tax one time on the money ( the only difference between paying tax now and later is the tax rate ) . It does n't matter that you 're paying tax only on the principal for the Roth and on the principal plus earnings for Traditional , because the principal now is equivalent to the principal plus earnings in the future . And you also see that investing money outside fares worse than both of them . That is because you are paying tax on the money once plus some more . When you compare it against the Roth IRA , the disadvantage is obvious -- in both cases you pay income tax on the principal , but for Roth IRA you pay nothing on the earnings , whereas for the outside stock , you pay some tax on the earnings . What may be less obvious is it is equally disadvantageous compared to a Traditional IRA ; Traditional and Roth IRA are equivalent in this comparison . 401 ( k ) s and IRAs have a fundamental tax benefit compared to normal money investment , because they allow money to be taxed only one time . No matter how low the capital gains tax rate it , it is still worse because it is a tax on time-value growth from money that is already taxed .
Generally in the US , tax withholdings are calculated by extrapolating the check amount against the number of pay roll periods in a year , then considering the standard deduction and number of exemptions you 've claimed . If you receive a retroactive raise and , as a result an abnormally high paycheck , your withholdings will likely be over-estimated on that particular check . Your company 's payroll vendor will likely just assume this check amount is the new normal and calculate accordingly . This is just a withholding , if it 's too much or too little it will be settled when you file your tax return .
The idea behind a Roth IRA is taxes will go up in the future so you are best off paying less in taxes now than in the future , which is why Roth IRAs are contributed to with post-tax dollars whereas traditional IRAs are contributed to with pre-tax dollars . The theoritical advantage comes when you want to withdrawal your money . With the traditional IRA , when you withdrawal money , you pay ordinary income tax on all withdrawals . With a Roth IRA , all withdrawals ( after the age of 591/2 ) are tax free , including any gains you may have made . To illistrate , with a very simple example , assume you make $ 50,000 and your IRA grows at 5 % for 40 years . Contribution Traditional IRA - $ 5,000 Roth IRA - $ 3,750 ( $ 5,000 after taxes ) Totals after 40 years Traditional IRA - $ 604,000 Roth IRA - $ 453,000 Withdrawal equally over 15 years Traditional IRA - $ 604,000 / 15 = $ 40,266 * 75 % ( 25 % tax ) = $ 30,200 / year Roth IRA - $ 453,000 / 15 = $ 30,200 / year First , this was not a contrived example and I was surprised the numbers worked out this way . Second , as you can see with this example there is really no advantage either way unless you by into the theory of higher taxes in the future .
The VDE fund is an energy fund so this is a function of recent price changes in oil ( and gas , coal , &amp; c ) . <URL> Lets say last year when oil was $ 100 per barrel a bunch of companies saw a good return and put $ 100 million into a bunch of leases , boreholes , pumps , &amp; c to return $ 10 million per year , and the market says yeah , they 're all together worth 100M . Now oil is less , maybe $ 40 per the link . These exploration companies do n't have a lot of labor or variable costs ; they are operationally profitable , may have " use it or lose it " leases or minimum pumping requirements for contract or engineering reasons . Lets say the cash flow is 7M so the market values them at 70M . They still have about 100M book value so here we are at .7 and I believe the scenario in the question . Nobody would invest in new capacity at this oil price . The well equipment could be repurposed but not the borehole or lease , so the best use is to continue pumping and value it on cash flow . If an individual well runs negative long enough and goes bust , either a different pumper will pay the minimum price that gives profitable cash flow , or that borehole that cost millions to dig is shut off and rendered valueless . The CNBC article says some explorers are playing games with debt to maintain yield , so there is that too . In the ETF , your bet is that the market is wrong and oil will go up , increasing future cash flows ( or you like the current yield , taking on the risk that some of these oil explorers could go bust ) .
You will pay at your top marginal rate in general , but there are a couple of other factors that may add to the tax : This additional income may bump you into the next tax bracket , in which case you 'll pay a higher marginal rate on the portion that falls into that next higher bracket . You probably have to pay self-employment tax in addition , which will mean " both halves " of your social security and medicare . ( For people with " regular " jobs getting a W-2 , the employer pays SS and Medicare as a payroll tax in addition to what they withhold from your paycheck . ) If you 're sufficiently underpaid on your tax , then you may have to pay some interest in addition to just the tax . Without knowing too much about your situation , 46 % does n't sound crazy since you said you 're in the 25 % bracket and the combined rate for SS and Medicare is 15.3 % , which already puts you around 40.3 % just based on my bullet # 2 above . Your software should have generated Schedule C on your return . You should be able to track some of these numbers more precisely there .
Since you are asking about mortgages let 's assume the rates you quote are nominal interest rates compounded monthly and the mortgage repayments are monthly . The following loan formula can be used : - <URL> where Taking a monthly rate , , the total repayments for the 5 year mortgage are : - The total repayments for the 4 year mortgage are : - To find the monthly rate , , that makes the 4 year mortgage cost the same as the 5 year mortgage the following equation is solved : - giving and a nominal rate compounded monthly : The 4 year mortgage is less costly than the 5 year 3 % mortgage at any nominal rate below 3.73545 % . Alternative calculation using AER If the rates you quoted were annual equivalent rates [ 1 . ] and repayments are still monthly the calculation is slightly different . <URL> Running the 5 year and 4 year calculations : - giving and an annual equivalent rate : Adjusting for inflation A fixed payment in the future will effectively cost less due to wage inflation so an adjustment for inflation can be made . Using the mortgage figures calculated for AER rates and taking inflation as 2 % AER , then the monthly inflation rate is and the adjusted totals are : - So we can see adjusting for inflation closes the gap between the 4 year and the 5 year mortgage from 3915.87 to 1753.08 : - Now the break-even rate for the 4 year mortgage can be found by solving which finds So the annual equivalent rate is Check $ 204,919 is the same as the inflation-adjusted present cost of the 5 year mortgage . So , adjusting for wage inflation at 2 % AER , the 4 year mortgage is less costly than the 5 year 3 % AER mortgage at any rate below 3.24212 % AER .
As is so often the case , there is an asterisk next to that 2.5 % interest offer . It leads you to a footnote which says : Savings Interest Rate Offer of 2.5 % is available between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 on all net new deposits made between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 to a maximum of $ 250,000.00 per Account registration . You only earn 2.5 % interest on deposits made during those three months . Also , on the full offer info page , it says : During the Offer Period , the Bank will calculate Additional Interest on eligible net new deposits and : All interest payments are ineligible for the purposes of calculating Additional Interest and will not be calculated for the purposes of determining eligible daily balances . In other words , any interest paid into an Applicable Account , including Additional Interest , will not be treated as a new deposit for subsequently calculating Additional Interest payments . I could n't totally parse out all the details of the offer from their legalese , but what it sounds like is you will earn 2.5 % interest on money that you deposit into the account during those three months . Any interest you accrue during that time will not count as a deposit in this sense , and so will not earn 2.5 % compounded returns . The " During the Offer Period " qualification also makes it sound like this extra interest will only be paid during the three months ( presumably at a 2.5 % annualized rate , but I ca n't see where it actually says this ) . So essentially you are getting a one-time bonus for making deposits during a specific three-month period . The account does n't really earn 2.5 % interest in the normal sense . The long-term interest rate will be what it normally is for their savings accounts , which <URL> says is 1.05 % .
Let 's say we have an investment with a 12 % gross rate , compounded monthly . We invest a million pounds . That works out to a 1 % rate per month . So after twelve months of compounding , we have a number that is 12.682503 % higher than the original . So we might say that our AER is 12.7 % . If we had simply multiplied our original amount by 1.127 , we would have almost gotten the right answer . Note that your actual bank may handle rounding differently . Also , 12 % is clearly a ridiculous interest rate . I picked it for easy division and multiplication , not realism . Similarly , compounding is more likely to be daily than monthly . But I 'm way too lazy to write out 366 lines of investment numbers . And of course I do n't actually have a million pounds to invest . I just did n't want to round off after just a couple digits . Any taxes would have been paid out of a separate account or perhaps this is some kind of tax free account . Again , purely for convenience .
To clarify . APY will always be an annual number . To calculate your APY you use the formulas below with your APR , the applicable compounding frequency , and duration of an entire year . The more frequent the compounding occurs the greater your yield relative to your rate . When you have a maturity period less than a year , the APY is still calculated based on holding for a full year . Assuming a 0.4 % APR , you will receive 0.4 % for the duration of the CD . Generally bank CDs are compounded daily which will help out a bit . You can roughly calculate your return by ( assuming a $ 1,000 deposit and a 3 month duration ) : On such a short time frame the effects of compounding will be negligible . And the published APY can be largely ignored as you will not be holding the CD for a year , unless you buy another three month CD at the same rate after maturity .
Appreciation of a Capital Asset is a <URL> . In the United States , Capital Gains get favorable tax treatment after being held for 12 months . From the <URL> : Capital gains and losses are classified as long-term or short-term , depending on how long you hold the property before you sell it . If you hold it more than one year , your capital gain or loss is long-term . If you hold it one year or less , your capital gain or loss is short-term . The tax rates that apply to net capital gain are generally lower than the tax rates that apply to other income . For 2009 , the maximum capital gains rate for most people is15 % . For lower-income individuals , the rate may be 0 % on some or all of the net capital gain . Special types of net capital gain can be taxed at 25 % or 28 % . The IRS defines a Capital Asset as " most property you own " with a list of exclusions found in <URL> . None of the exclusions listed relate to Bond ETFs .
<URL> might answer your question if US based . In the US , what counts is what shows on the bill . I 've run $ 20K through a card with a $ 10K limit , but still ended the month under $ 2K by making extra payments . As long as you stay ahead of the limit by making mid-cycle payments , I see no issue with this strategy . If you keep running $ 30K/mo through a card with a $ 10K limit , the bank will eventually catch this and raise your limit as you will have proven you are more credit worthy .
Your analysis is not comparing apples to apples which is why it looks like investing money in a non-qualified account is better than a 401k ( traditional or Roth ) . For the non-qual you are using post tax dollars ( money that has already been taxed ) . Now on top of that original tax you are also going to pay capital gains tax for any growth plus dividend rates for any dividends it throws off . For the 401k , let 's assume for the moment that $ 10,000 is invested in a traditional and that the marginal tax rate is always 20 % . And for growth let 's assume 10x . With a traditional your money will grow to $ 100,000 and then the IRS gets $ 20,000 as you pull the money out . The result is a net 80,000 for you . For a Roth 401k , it is taxed first so only $ 8,000 gets invested . This then grows by the same multiplier to $ 80,000 . ( Until you consider changing tax rates the Roth and traditional give the same growth of money ) . Considering the non-qual option , like with the Roth we only have $ 8,000 to invest . However in this case you will not realize the full 10x growth as you will have to pay taxes on $ 72,000 . These are taxes that the 401ks ( and also IRAs ) do not pay . There are other reasons to consider non-qual over maxing out your 401k . Liquidity , quality of investments , and fees being some of those . But the capital gains rate vs. ordinary income rate is not one , as the money in the non-qual still has to go through that ordinary income tax first before it is available to even invest .
This is quite possibly a tactic to attract new clients . . ICICI is one of the banks with a small presence in Canada . There are also banks like Tangerine and PC Financial that are aggressively trying to get new clients to switch over from the big 5 banks . At the time of writing , for a limited time , PC Financial is paying 2.5 % interest on savings accounts versus 1.4 % for a 1 year GIC .
In Australia , banks use 3 main criteria to assess your mortgage application . Your Credit History - they will generally knock back an application if the applicant has a history of defaulting on loans and other payments . You would pose too high of a risk . Your current Net Income ( after tax ) - used to assess whether you are able to make the monthly mortgage repayments . If you are getting rental income the banks will only count about 75 % of your net rent to allow for when the property is vacant ( between tenants ) . Your Equity in the property - generally to avoid paying LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) you would need a minimum of 20 % of your own funds as a down-payment/deposit so that the LVR ( Loan to Value Ratio ) is not more that 80 % . If you are going for a Low Doc Loan ( where you only have to sign a Statutory Declaration regarding your income and not provide the supporting documentation to prove it ) you will generally require a maximum LVR of 60 % ( i.e. 40 % down-payment/deposit ) . Please Note : In some areas where there has been an over supply of apartments built , the bank might require you to have a lower LVR , closer to 60 % , where you are buying a unit in such an area . So as long as you have an ok credit history ( you have not defaulted on any loans or payments ) , the extra savings could be used to increase your equity in the property and thus reduce or eliminate the payment of any LMI , or help you to get a Low Doc Loan if you are self employed , have an inconsistent income stream , or where documentation for proof of income is limited . Summing up , the savings in the bank will provide you with the biggest benefit in this case .
Every 401 ( k ) has managers to make the stock choices . They all have different rates . You want to see that fidelity or Vangard is handling your 401 ( k ) . ( and I am sure others ) If you have a mega bank managing your funds or an insurance company odds are you are paying way to high management fees . So find out , the management fees should be available should be less than 1 % . They can get as high as 2 % ... Ouch
end question
start question
What do " yield type " and " duration " mean in this table of bonds ?
<URL> has this definition of duration : The duration number is a complicated calculation involving present value , yield , coupon , final maturity and call features . Fortunately for investors , this indicator is a standard data point provided in the presentation of comprehensive bond and bond mutual fund information . The bigger the duration number , the greater the interest-rate risk or reward for bond prices . As for Yield Type , I suspect C would be Coupon bonds while M would be bonds that the interest would be paid at Maturity .
Some people are paranoid about day-to-day or month-to-month fluctuations in their credit scores , perhaps because they have signed up with various on-line services that monitor their credit scores and promptly report any changes . Suppose your credit limit is $ 5000 and you charge $ 3500 ( 70 % ) on the card each month for several months in a row and pay the full balance promptly every month ; maybe even on the day the monthly statement is issued . Yes , it may " look bad " to the reporting agencies and affect your credit score negatively since the agencies can not tell the difference between your actions and those of someone who charged $ 3500 once and is paying just enough each month to keep the balance at $ 3500 . But , your credit card company knows the difference between you and the other guy , and believe me , the company would far rather have you as a customer than the other guy . Since the credit-card company charges the merchants fees ( anywhere from 1 % to 5 % ) for processing the transactions , they earn far more from you than the other guy , and have comparatively little risk of having to turn over the account to a collection agency . You will likely get an increase in your credit limit without even asking for it in a few months . They want to keep you rather than lose you to a competing offer from another credit-card company . Of course , as in all cases , YMMV .
There is no magic involved , merely a change in Fidelity 's analysts ' expectations of the future profitability of some startups . The current value of a firm ( as some other posts indicate ) is the net present value ( NPV ) of all of its future cash flows plus the book value ( the value of the company if it were immediately wound up ) . Future cash flows depend on the economics around the firm in the long distant future , particularly demand , growth in demand , the firm 's ability to fulfil demand at the correct price ( including price elasticities of demand ) , and interaction with any competition in the market . Fidelity 's analysts have looked at their models and understanding of these underlying factors and decided that the NPV is likely to be lower than they had previously stated so they have reduced the stated value of the startups as reflected on their books . I am speculating somewhat here , as an aside , but it seems likely that Fidelity felt that the startups ' in question had too high expected growth given the current state of the world economy . A reduction in expected growth rate reduces all future cash flows and is likely to be more pronounced on profitability as fixed costs are pretty much already sunk . This is partly speculative but hopefully gives some " market colour " to the answer . You also state that Fidelity does not control the operations of the startups at all . which is not true in many of these cases since these are mostly privately held companies ; it is probable that Fidelity is one of , if not THE , largest investor in that company . If Fidelity decided to remove some of its investment capital it would be disastrous to the company and would pretty much make them insolvent unless another significant investor could be found . This gives them a significant presence on , and power over , the boards of these companies . In all it is likely that this write down was done to reflect the fair value of the companies as going concerns given a complex set of economic parameters .
It 's just shorthand for the interest rate that the bonds pay . " 5s " is short for " fives " , which is short for " bonds paying a five percent coupon rate " ; " 7s " is short for " sevens " , which is short for " bonds paying a seven percent coupon rate " . This terminology is still in use ; when a company has more than one series of bonds outstanding , one way of distinguishing them is to refer to them as " 5s " for the five percenters and " 7s " for the seven percenters .
Yes - this is exactly what it means . No losses ( negative earnings ) . With today 's accounting methods , you might want to determine whether you view earnings including or excluding extraordinary items . For example , a company might take a once-off charge to its earnings when revising the value of a major asset . This would show in the " including " but not in the " excluding " figure . The book actually has a nice discussion in Chapter 12 " Things to Consider About Per-Share Earnings " which considers several additional variables to consider here too . Note that this earnings metric is different from " Stock Selection for the Defensive Investor " which requires 10 years . PS - My edition ( 4th edition hardback ) does n't have 386 pages so your reference is n't correct for that edition . I found it on page 209 in Chapter 15 " Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor " .
I 'm American but fortunately Google is internationally recognized . Here 's a link to <URL> . Some other terms that could possibly help you are the rent -- price ratio ( house price / annual rent ) and the House P/E ratio ( house price / ( rent  expenses ) ) . They 're discussed <URL> .
As usual on a marketplace - depends on the buyers and sellers . Any country would love its bonds to be denominated in its own currency . However , the bond buyers need to trust the currency the bonds issued in , otherwise they would n't invest . Bond terms vary as well . Some have fixed interest , some variable , some promise inflation adjustments , some do n't . Again - whatever the buyers and the sellers can agree upon . In the US for example , the bonds are denominated in the US dollars , own currency . Some bonds have inflation protection ( as mentioned by JB King ) . However , in Greece , the bonds are denominated in EUR , which is the currency used in Greece , but not controlled by Greece . In Russia , bonds are denominated in EUR or USD , neither is used nor controlled by the Russians . Similarly most of the world uses USD or EUR for international transactions with very rare exceptions . Thus the country 's inflation does n't affect the bond value ( the US/EUR inflation does , though ) .
Balance available is ( Effectively ) your credit limit minus your current balance due and any pending charges . It 's the credit equivalent of your bank account ( positive ) balance : how much could you bill/charge if you wanted to . With a balance available of $ 500 , you could charge something for $ 480 , but you would n't be allowed to charge $ 530 . With a limit of 500 , you might have : or etc. . The available balance also takes into account various credit holds ( like if you go to the gas station , the pay-at-pump puts a $ 100 hold on for a day or two before you pump , to make sure you can cover the actual cost - it will be adjusted down once the reconciliation occurs , and you 'll never be charged interest for it , but it does reduce your balance available . Those holds are often included in " Pending Charges " or similar . You can also have other kinds of available balance - like available for cash advance , etc. - that might be lower .
From the page you referenced , first click the link <URL> . There you 'll find the calculation itself , but not the percentage rate . Then from that page , near the bottom , click the link <URL> . It 's almost the same title as the prior page , so a little confusing , but that pluralized version has the data you were looking for . Partial quote : The same rates are applied across Canada , except in the province of Quebec . That province has a different set of rates because they administer their own Parental Insurance Plan . In particular , self-employed workers in Quebec can opt into QPIP ( even if they would n't qualify to participate in EI ) and potentially collect parental benefits . Typical non-self-employed workers in Quebec pay into both EI ( at the reduced rates for Quebec ) as well as QPIP .
I think your understanding is correct as far as you describe , but you do n't mention a critical detail to me . You also imply some penalty details for early withdrawal / cancellation but you do n't state those terms in detail . Where and when is the interest paid ? Does it go into the same CD for compounding ? Does it get paid to another account ? The description does say that it is priced at par , so we at least know that the interest does n't have to be stuck unpaid within the CD until maturity , but it also means you do n't necessarily get compounding at the CD rate . Without knowing where the interest goes , and if it 's available for compounding , be careful in how you compare it to other CDs / savings accounts . A compoundable structure might be a better option , even at a lower APY .
A 100 % stock dividend means that you get one share of the " stock dividend " for every share you own . For example , Google did this in 2014 when they gave all of their Class A shareholders one class C share for every Class A that they owned . If the 100 % stock dividend is for the exactly the same stock , it is basically the same as a 2-for-1 stock split . If , however , the 100 % stock dividend is to give you a different stock , then this is typically due to a corporate reorganization or demerger/spinoff event . Some countries have different tax treatments for the events - for example , with demergers in Australia , Class Rulings need to be obtained from the Australian Taxation Office to declare demergers as tax free . A recent demerger was in Australia as South32 , demerged from BHP Billiton . References : <URL> <URL>
The simplest was is to just divide your total dividends for the year by your starting capital for that year . For example , if you start with $ 100000 in capital and earn $ 5000 in dividends during the year your dividend yield for that year would be 5 % . Even if you have n't fully invested your total capital during the year it is still available to be invested and the total should be used for the calculation . Once the year has ended you will have a new balance for you capital , which is the value you should use in the following year . An alternative to this calculation is to use your average capital for the year , add your starting and ending capital values and divide by 2 . You may want to use this method if you trade often during the year instead of buying all your investments only at the start of the year . Also , another thing to consider is whether you include the dividends as additions to your capital or if you withdrawal dividends when they are paid for your own cashflow . If you reinvest your dividends , then they should be included as part of your capital .
When dealing with investments ( including stocks ) , CAGR is how you can describe the average growth of something over a period of time . The acronym stands for Compound Annual Growth Rate . For instance : Let 's say that I buy $ 10,000 worth of stock . After one year , it 's worth $ 9,000 ( a 10 % decrease ) After two years , it 's worth $ 12,000 ( a 33 % increase ) If I wanted to brag to my friends , I 'd say " I made 33 % on my stock from last year ! " Anyone who has known me a bit longer would probably be more interested in what kind of return ( percentage-wise ) I had made in total since I initially purchased the stock ( CAGR ) . This is calculated as follows : where and so for our example , You can double-check this by using that value each year and working forward Initial stock purchase of $ 10,000 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 955 ) = $ 10,955 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 1046 ) = $ 12,001 On a side note , it is interesting that the " simple " calculation most people would make for the above example goes like this : I have $ 12,000 now . I started with $ 10,000 . That is $ 2,000 profit , which is 20 % of $ 10,000 over 2 years . I made 10 % profit each year . Sticking with the CAGR formula prevents such mistakes from happening .
They use an amortization table like can be found <URL> . The Forumula is not that complex where : A = payment Amount per period P = initial Principal ( loan amount ) r = interest rate per period n = total number of payments or periods You will need to add 50 to the A to account for the payment fee amount though .
<URL> Asian debt markets have also been under pressure lately , reflecting global asset reallocation from emerging markets ( EMs ) to developed markets ( DMs ) in view of the growing unease over the impending reversal in the QE stimulus by the US Fed .
The benefit is that you can reduce the interest you pay to zero for the specified time . Every penny goes toward reducing your balance . Is n't that nice ? :) However , you must make absolutely sure that you make the payments on time ! Likely your interest rate will jump tremendously if you miss . Then you 'll be hating life . Regarding balance transfer fees that Benjamin mentions : one I heard recently was 3 % of the transfer , or $ 5 , whichever is greater . If there is one , it will be something like that . Zero-percent balance transfers can help you reduce your debt if you keep on top of them . They are secretly waiting for you to screw up so that they can make money off of you , but you can win if you 're careful .
It looks like JP Morgan can convert your holding to <URL> . In any event , you should not completely lose the equity . Volvo still exists as a public company , it 's just not tradable on US exchanges . Q1 : Yes , you 'd need a JPM account . Your broker should have offered a similar service . If they did n't they are not a broker . Q2 : You own 30 shares in Volvo . You need to get your broker to either sell them ( off-exchange now ) or tell you how to gain access to them .
<URL> <URL> , the DIV ( % ) is , as you say , 165 % . However , the dividend yield is 3.73 % at the time of writing . As the Investopedia page referenced above says : The payout ratio is calculated as follows : Annual Dividends per Share / Earnings per Share . which means that the dividends being paid out are more than the earnings of the company : In extreme cases , dividend payout ratios exceed 100 % , meaning more dividends were paid out than there were profits that year . Significantly high ratios are unsustainable . <URL>
Whole Life is just an insurance product and an investment product wrapped into a single package . The only advantage is that since you 're forced to make payments to maintain the insurance , you 're forced to invest . It 's really just the " Christmas Club " or payroll-deduction idea , though it tries to claim otherwise . If you 're unable to make yourself set aside money for the future without that pressure , this advantage may have some value . Otherwise , probably not . And there are significant disadvantages . You 're giving up the ability to control your own investments , and paying for the convenience of not having to ( or being able to ) think about them . Not just in the agent 's commission , but in paying a relatively high ongoing rate for the investment " brokerage " service -- and keeping those fees low would make a significant difference in actual rate of return , which compounded over the years can make a large difference in actual earnings . There 's no free lunch . The insurance companies offer this because it makes a profit for them . That profit can ONLY come out of your pocket .
Bid = 38.99 x 6800 Someone wants to buy 6800 shares at $ 38.99 each . Ask = 39.00 x 4300 Someone wants to sell 4300 shares at $ 39.00 each . When someone 's bid price matches someone 's ask price , you 've got a transaction .
end question
start question
Is there any benefit to investing in an index fund ?
Index funds may invest either in index components directly or <URL> ( like ETFs , index options , futures , etc. ) which are highly correlated with the index . The specific fund prospectus or description on any decent financial site should contain these details . Index funds are not actively managed , but that does not mean they are n't managed at all - if index changes and the fund includes specific stock , they would adjust the fund content . Of course , the downside of it is that selling off large amounts of certain stock ( on its low point , since it 's being excluded presumably because of its decline ) and buying large amount of different stock ( on its raising point ) may have certain costs , which would cause the fund lag behind the index . Usually the difference is not overly large , but it exists . Investing in the index contents directly involves more transactions - which the fund distributes between members , so it does n't usually buy individually for each member but manages the portfolio in big chunks , which saves costs . Of course , the downside is that it can lag behind the index if it 's volatile . Also , in order to buy specific shares , you will have to shell out for a number of whole share prices - which for a big index may be a substantial sum and wo n't allow you much flexibility ( like " I want to withdraw half of my investment in S&amp;P 500 " ) since you ca n't usually own 1/10 of a share . With index funds , the entry price is usually quite low and increments in which you can add or withdraw funds are low too .
mhoran mentioned PMI . One can look at a PMI encumbered loan this way : the rate on the loan is the mortgage rate for the lower 78 % of loan to value . The rest of the loan has a true rate that has to include the PMI cost . Mathematically , it 's as if you had two loans , a fixed rate , and a high priced second mortgage . If the $ 20k you need to pay down to eliminate PMI has a monthly $ 100 cost , the rate on that money should be viewed as 6 % above the mortgage rate you already pay . A credit card with too high a utization can ding your credit score short term . Regardless of total utilization . Aside from these two issues , adjust the rates for taxes , eg my 3.5 % mortgage is really 2.6 % , and stick with the plan to sort by rate to pay off . Too many expensive mistakes are made based on emotion . If you have the discipline of a mathematician go with the numbers . Keep in mind , millions ' feel ' good about a tax refund . When anyone tells you they got a big refund , they are bragging they planned poorly , lent the government money interest free , and are too ignorant to understand either point . I always respond " that 's great " and fake a smile . The debt snowball method is a cult that may provide an emotional win . No mathematician should belong to that cult .
A closed-end fund is a collective investment scheme that is closed to new investment once the fund starts operating . A typical open-ended fund will allow you to buy more shares of the fund anytime you want and the fund will create those new shares for you and invest your new money to continue growing assets under management . A closed-end fund only using the initial capital invested when the fund started operating and no new shares are typically created ( always exception in the financial community ) . Normally you buy and sell an open-end fund from the fund company directly . A closed-end fund will usually be bought and sold on the secondary market . Here is some more information from <URL> Some characteristics that distinguish a closed-end fund from an ordinary open-end mutual fund are that : it is closed to new capital after it begins operating , and its shares ( typically ) trade on stock exchanges rather than being redeemed directly by the fund . its shares can therefore be traded during the market day at any time . An open-end fund can usually be traded only at the closing price at the end of the market day . a CEF usually has a premium or discount . An open-end fund sells at its NAV ( except for sales charges ) . Another distinguishing feature of a closed-end fund is the common use of leverage or gearing to enhance returns . CEFs can raise additional investment capital by issuing auction rate securities , preferred shares , long-term debt , and/or reverse-repurchase agreements . In doing so , the fund hopes to earn a higher return with this excess invested capital .
My opinion is that in general , it is probably not a good idea to borrow at a cost in order to make your RRSP contribution . Banks , of course , have an interest in loaning you money . Do n't expect their literature to be objective on the matter ! They are selling you a product and the advice is biased . What better way to double-dip than to get guaranteed interest payments from you , as well as ongoing fees for ( probably also ) getting your loan money invested in their high-fee mutual funds ? A year 's RRSP contribution room allowance is n't use it or lose it -- <URL> . That is , unused RRSP contribution room accumulates and you can take advantage of it in later years . If we could n't carry our RRSP contribution room over , I might feel different about the general case for RRSP loans . Yet there are two specific cases I can think of where it may make sense to borrow and pay back : ( a possible case ) ... if your tax rate is currently in a high bracket ( e.g. 46 % ) , and you anticipate being in a lower income and bracket next year ( e.g. 35 % ) , then it would make sense to take advantage of the higher tax savings in the current tax year . If you waited until the following year to take the deduction , you 'd lose out on 11 % of the deducted amount . For a typical person whose income is level or increasing from year to year , this is n't likely to be applicable , but it could help somebody who is going on leave or otherwise has irregular income . ( a foolish case ) ... if you knew , somehow , that you could realize a return on your invested RRSP money exceeding the pre-tax earnings required to pay the interest on the RRSP loan . However , I would suggest this is foolish bet to make . The interest you pay is guaranteed , but the return you are expected to get is probably not ( or if it is , it is probably a return lower than what your bank wants to charge on the loan . ) If for some reason it does make sense for you , take the money and invest it somewhere better than the high-fee mutual funds the bank is also pushing .
I did just what you suggest . The card company honored the charge , they told me the temporary number was solely for the purpose of assigning a number to one vendor/business . So even though I set a low limit , the number was still active and the card company paid the request . Small price to pay , but it did n't go as I wished . For this purpose , I 've used Visa/Mastercard gift cards . They are often on sale for face value and no additional fees .
Vanguard offers an index fund . Their FTSE Social Index Fund . For more information on it , <URL> .
No , there are no issues . When you form the corp in DE , you pick a business there to serve as your " agent " ( essentially someone who knows to get in contact with you ) . The " agent " will notify you about taxes and any mail you get , but besides the fee they charge you for being the agent , you should file all the taxes directly with DE ( franchise tax is easy to file on the web ) instead of going through the agent and paying a surcharge . When your LLC files taxes , you 'll do so in DE and then the LLC will issue you a federal and state K1 . You 'll file taxes where you reside and use the federal K1 , but I think you might have to file DE state taxes ( unsure about this part , feel free to edit or comment and I 'll correct ) .
He is wrong . Using Total Return ( Reinvesting Dividend ) , from the peak in December 1999 , it only took 6 years to recover . You can check the data for free <URL> . Make sure you choose " Gross Index Level " . ACWI Index is Developed Markets + Emerging Markets . World Index is Developed Markets only .
Assuming you plan to buy a whole number of shares and have a maximum dollar value you intend to invest , it may be better to wait for the split if the figures do n't quite work out nicely . For example , if you are going to invest $ 1,000 and the stock pre-split is $ 400 and the split is 2 for 1 , then you 'd buy 2 shares before the split unless you have an extra $ 200 to add . Meanwhile , after the split you could buy 5 shares at $ 200 so that you invest all that you intend . Aside from that case , it does n't really make a difference since the split is similar to getting 2 nickels for a dime which in each case is still a total value of 10 cents .
The only " smallest amount " issue , as far as I know , is that some of these funds or their brokers may require a minimum initial investment to justify their effort in setting up the account . I believe my funds required that I start them with somewhere between one and five thousand dollars . Other than that , gains ( or loses , in a bad period ) from a fund are directly proportional to the amount of money you have invested in that fund . It 's just that 8 % of $ 500 is a much less impressive absolute number that 8 % of $ 500,000 ... But the way you get the $ 500,000 is a combination of ongoing deposits and compound interest over a decade or three .
One risk with any investment denominated in foreign currency is the exchange rate risk . Specifically , if the value of your local currency increases relative to the Australian Dollar , then it has the potential to reduce , eliminate , or even give you a negative return on your investment unless you plan to keep the proceeds in Australian currency . Of course , this could work to your advantage to and enhance your return if your local currency gets weaker relative to the foreign currency .
I contacted Vanguard with this question ; they responded with : All fund accounts that hold Admiral ( tm ) Shares are reviewed for eligibility on an annual basis , typically in June . If any of your Admiral Shares fund accounts have balances below the required level at the time of this review , we will notify you by mail so that you 'll have an opportunity to increase the balance . If a fund balance subsequently remains below the required minimum , we will convert your account in that fund to Investor Shares . Conversions are not a taxable event . Your fund balance is solely determined by market value , so if the market value of your position in the fund is below the minimum threshold for Admiral shares ( which is $ 10K or $ 50K , depending on the fund ) when Vanguard reviews your account , they 'll contact you . It does n't matter if the decline in value occurred because you sold shares or because the market moved ; Vanguard will still downgrade you if you do n't top up your position . In terms of taxes , if you sell shares in a non-tax-sheltered account , you may incur capital gains and will therefore pay taxes on that amount , but Vanguard themselves wo n't charge you any fees or penalties when they downgrade you . One more note on the rest of your question . Remember that a mutual fund investment is n't as liquid as a savings account ; you 'll face a delay between selling your shares and the settlement of your funds , so in terms of liquidity , a mutual fund investment is n't a substitute for a savings account . You should always have an emergency fund that covers at least 3-6 months of living expenses set aside that is highly liquid , regardless of your other investments . Also , you 'll face much more volatility with an investment in an equity fund . For longer-term investments , this is n't necessarily a problem , but if you might need these funds for emergencies , you probably do n't want to expose yourself to the risk that when you might need the funds when their value is at a low point .
The difference between dividend and growth in mutual funds has to do with the types of stocks the mutual fund invests in . Typically a company in the early stages are considered growth investments . In this phase the company needs to keep most of its profits to reinvest in the business . Typically once a company gets a significant size the company 's growth prospects are not as good so the company pays some of its profits in the form of a dividend to the shareholders . As far as which is the best buy is totally a personal choice . There will be times when one is better then the other . Most likely you will want to " diversify " and invest in both types .
At your age , I do n't think its a bad idea to invest entirely in stocks . The concern with stocks is their volatility , and at 40 + years from retirement , volatility does not concern you . Just remember that if you ever want to call upon your 401 ( k ) for anything other than retirement , such as a down payment on a home ( which is a qualified distribution that is not subject to early distribution penalties ) , then you should reconsider your retirement allocations . I would not invest 100 % into stocks if I knew I were going to buy a house in five years and needed that money for a down payment . If your truly saving strictly for a retirement that could occur forty years in the future , first good for you , and second , put it all in an index fund . An S&amp;P index has a ridiculously low expense ratio , and with so many years away from retirement , it gives you an immense amount of flexibility to choose what to do with those funds as your retirement date approaches closer every year .
Pro : - Faces less redemption pressure and hence the Fund Manager can focus more on long term gains rather than immediate gains . - Works well in emerging markets . - Less churn out in case the market falls sharply , there by making more money in long run . Cons : - No additional money to invest/take advantage of market situation . - Less liquid for investor as he is locked in for a period .
The main risks will depend on where your funds are invested . If you select a more aggressive allocation like shares and property your investment funds will be more susceptible to short term market risks , if however you select a more conservative allocation like fixed interest and bonds you will be exposed to less short term market risk . However , if you want to save on fees you might look into an industry fund rather than a retail fund . Industry funds are generally non-for profit , have lower fees and many have better medium and long term returns than most retail funds . Being over 60 and still working you may qualify for a Transition to Retirement Pension . Here you can start a pension and receive the income tax free from your super , whilst salary sacrificing part of your pay to reduce tax outside of super . EDIT With regard to the fund manager going bankrupt your funds are actually held on trust for you and held entirely separately from the fund manager 's capital . Your funds are also protected by strict regulations . What happens to the financial status of your fund manager has little or no direct impact on your funds . So if your fund manager collapses , then largely your funds remain intact but a new fund manager might become the new administrator of your super fund . As I said previously the main risks to your funds would be primarily the asset allocation you chose and the level of fees you are paying . If you are ever unhappy with your current fund you can fairly easily roll over your super to a different fund .
If more than one of them charge account fees , you 'll be paying more in fees than you should .
What you 're asking for is a short-term , large return investment . When looking for big returns in a short period of time , risk is inevitable . The more risk you are willing to assume , the higher your potential returns . Of course , the flip is is that the higher your risk , the higher the potential to lose all your money ! Since this is an exercise for school ( and not real money and not your life savings ) your best bet is to " go big or go home " . You can safely assume 100 % risk ! Do n't look for value stocks , dividend stocks , or anything that pays a steady return over a long period of time . Instead , look for something risky that has the potential of going up , up , up in the next few months . Are you allowed to trade options in your fake portfolio ? Options can have big risk and big reward potential . Penny stocks are super volatile , too . Do some research , look for a fad . In other words , you will most likely lose it all . But you get a little lucky , you could win this thing outright by making some risky investments . A 5 % chance of winning $ 3000 vs 95 % of going broke may be pretty good odds if everyone else is value investing for just a few months . You will need to get lucky . Go big or go home !
I 'm adding this as it seems we 've come to a conclusion , but strictly among the comments . Your comment nails it - " After the PIA is established , the bonus for delaying is applied . Begin at age 68 and you get PIA x 108 % , age 69 gets PIA x 116 % , and age 70 gets PIA x 124 % . Since it is not compounded , the increase from age 69 to 70 is more like 7 % . " One good feature of the <URL> site is the ability to forecast your benefit , either COLA adjusted or not . So , I can see my benefit with either the 8 % year on year increase , or with COLA included .
I highly recommend <URL> Professor Damodaran . He 's written some of the best valuation books in existence ( my favorite , simply " Investment Valuation " ) . On his website you 'll find a big pile of spreadsheets , that are models for working the various approaches to valuing a company . Also , he teaches an MBA-level valuation course at Stern School of Business in NYC . And he videotapes it and you can watch it for free . Very smart , kind , generous man .
end question
start question
What is the role of a manager in a passively managed index fund ?
There still is some buying and selling to do in a passively-managed fund . The stocks might pay dividends . If the fund manager did n't reinvest these dividends , the fund would begin to accumulate a cash position , which would cause it to stray from being an index fund . Stocks come and go from an index as well ; if the fund is to maintain a composition that matches a particular index , this must be taken into account as well . The role of the manager is to ensure that the fund maintains the composition that it was intended to replicate . It does n't involve as much " stock picking " that active managers do . The manager has less leeway as to what s/he buys and sells , but there still is work involved .
In a word , no . Diversification is the first rule of investing . Your plan has poor diversification because it ignores most of the economy ( large cap stocks ) . This means for the expected return your portfolio would get , you would bear an unnecessarily large amount of risk . Large cap and small cap stocks take turns outperforming each other . If you hold both , you have a safer portfolio because one will perform well while the other performs poorly . You will also likely want some exposure to the bond market . A simple and diversified portfolio would be a total market index fund and a total bond market fund . Something like 60 % in the equity and 40 % in the bonds would be reasonable . You may also want international exposure and maybe exposure to real estate via a REIT fund . You have expressed some risk-aversion in your post . The way to handle that is to take some of your money and keep it in your cash account and the rest into the diversified portfolio . Remember , when people add more and more asset classes ( large cap , international , bonds , etc. ) they are not increasing the risk of their portfolio , they are reducing it via diversification . The way to reduce it even more ( after you have diversified ) is to keep a larger proportion of it in a savings account or other guaranteed investment . BTW , your P2P lender investment seems like a great idea to me , but 60 % of your money in it sounds like a lot .
Breakpoints are a feature of front-end fee payment mutual funds . As outlined in <URL> , perhaps a normal front-end fee would be 0.5 % of your investment . If , however , you put up more than a certain amount , perhaps $ 100,000 , then you would pay 0.4 % or some such . You get a break on the fees charged . There may be multiple levels , as you mention . The thought process on their part is likely two-fold . First is that it is still a sizable amount of money , even discounted . Secondly , and probably more importantly , investors with a lot of cash are generally but not always more sophisticated . They are less likely to use mutual funds at all , and may need the incentive of a lower fee to consider them as part of their investment mix . Good Luck
First : what 's your risk tolerance ? How long is your investment going to last ? If it 's a short-term investment ( a few years ) and you expect to break even ( or better ) then your risk tolerance is low . You should not invest much money in stocks , even index funds and " defensive " stocks . If , however , you 're looking for a long-term investment which you will put money into continually over the next 30 years , the amount of stock you purchase at any given time is pretty small , so the money you might lose by timing the market wrong will also be rather small . Also , you probably do a remarkably poor job of knowing when to buy stocks . If you actually knew how to time the market to materially improve your risk-adjusted returns , you 've missed your calling ; you should be making six figures or more on Wall Street . :)
The All Ords Index consists of the 500 largest companies by market capitalisation listed on the Australia Stock Exchange . Each stock in the All Ords . Index is given a weighting based on its market capitalisation . As the price of the stocks within the All Ords . Index change , so does the points on the index itself . The Index is more sensitive to changes in the larger capitalised stocks due to their larger weighting in the Index . Example : If a company has a weighting of 10 % and its price goes up by 10 % , and all other stocks in the Index do n't go up or down , then this will cause the All Ords Index to go up by 1 % ( 10 % of 10 % ) .
Index funds may invest either in index components directly or <URL> ( like ETFs , index options , futures , etc. ) which are highly correlated with the index . The specific fund prospectus or description on any decent financial site should contain these details . Index funds are not actively managed , but that does not mean they are n't managed at all - if index changes and the fund includes specific stock , they would adjust the fund content . Of course , the downside of it is that selling off large amounts of certain stock ( on its low point , since it 's being excluded presumably because of its decline ) and buying large amount of different stock ( on its raising point ) may have certain costs , which would cause the fund lag behind the index . Usually the difference is not overly large , but it exists . Investing in the index contents directly involves more transactions - which the fund distributes between members , so it does n't usually buy individually for each member but manages the portfolio in big chunks , which saves costs . Of course , the downside is that it can lag behind the index if it 's volatile . Also , in order to buy specific shares , you will have to shell out for a number of whole share prices - which for a big index may be a substantial sum and wo n't allow you much flexibility ( like " I want to withdraw half of my investment in S&amp;P 500 " ) since you ca n't usually own 1/10 of a share . With index funds , the entry price is usually quite low and increments in which you can add or withdraw funds are low too .
Most people carry a diversity of stock , bond , and commodities in their portfolio . The ratio and types of these investments should be based on your goals and risk tolerance . I personally choose to manage mine through <URL> which combine the three , but <URL> are also becoming popular . As for where you keep your portfolio , it depends on what you 're investing for . If you 're investing for retirement you are definitely best to keep as much of your investment as possible in <URL> or <URL> ( preferably <URL> ) . Many advisers suggest contributing as much to your 401k as your company matches , then the rest to IRA , and if you over contribute for the IRA back to the 401k . You may choose to skip the 401k if you are not comfortable with the choices your company offers in it ( such as only investing in company stock ) . If you are investing for a point closer than retirement and you still want the risk ( and reward potential ) of stock I would suggest investing in <URL> , or eating the tax and investing in regular mutual funds . If you are going to take money out before retirement the penalties of a 401k or IRA make it not worth doing . Technically a savings account is n't investing , but rather a place to store money .
Typically the catch is liquidity , and the margins are pretty small , so you ca n't just leverage up and make a percentage off that . Typically you 'll be trapped in the options position .
From a technical perspective , it 's all to do with how matching ( or crossing ) works . Many exchanges impose a maximum tick frequency just to have an upper limit on the outgoing data . The order book and the matching engine are usually two independent , orthogonal concepts . There 's a working cycle that , at time , takes a state of the order book ( a snapshot if you will ) and all incoming orders ( a snapshot of the order queue ) and feeds them to the matching engine . An order can either result in a cross , in which case something is taken from the book , or when there 's no matching cross side an order can be added to the book . Once this cycle is over , the order book ( and all executions in that time slot ) is disseminated again , and the working cycle can be re-run . Just a thought experiment now : If they did process each order individually ( i.e. start a new round and send the order book afterwards ) then I could create a lot of noise by sending an order and its cancellation , or an order and a self-crossing order at the same time ( it 's called quote stuffing ) . Everyone could see every single state the order book goes through , in particular they will see my order coming in , only that I 'm the only one knowing that this order will be cancelled moments later , and while they decide whether or not to react I can use the time to do something useful , my abusive behaviour has given me a time advantage . The exact configuration of the time windows above depend on many factors and is often not even disclosed to the public . If you need this number because you 're building a trading system and need an upper bound or so , you could check with the exchange 's tech or API department . Edit Just to clarify , I 'm talking about changes in the order book at any level ( not necessarily the top level ) , and since most exchanges for a given price level consolidate all orders ( they only show you the total quantity at that price level ) , they will have to report the new quantity after every round . Also , I 'm using crossing and matching synonymously . Edit Not from personal experience , but have a look at <URL> ( in particular <URL> ) , they demonstrate how the cycle in principle looks , but provide no figures how much time is allocated to each step ( from Matching Engine Gap Fill to Gap Fill )
An index fund tracks the performance of an index by investing in securities in the benchmark in the same proportions as the benchmark . The funds track their indexes pretty closely , with the following factors contributing to deviations : Dividends . Some indexes exclude the dividends in their numbers , while the fund invested in the stocks of the index earns dividends . This helps the fund outperform the index . Cash . Because of redemptions and contributions , some of the fund 's funds are in cash rather than securities . Example : if 5 % of the fund is in cash , only 95 % is subject to growth or decline . If the market goes up 1 % , the fund 's value goes up 0.95 % . Similarly if the market goes down 1 % the fund loses 0.95 % . This helps the fund outperform in bad markets and underperform in bad markets . Fee : the fund incurs expenses for management , infrastructure , administrative fees , etc. . The index is a theoretical portfolio . This hurts the fund 's performance relative to the index . Trading : Funds incur trading costs any time contributions or redemptions occur . Also some indexes are rebalanced frequently , causing funds that follow them to trade more frequently to keep matched to the benchmark . This hurts performance . Benchmark deviations : While the funds attempt to mirror the index , they can never do it 100 % at all times due to market fluctuations , purchase timings , etc. . This can either hurt or help the performance of the fund . Hope this helps .
For US stocks it 's a bit of a gamble . Many actively managed funds underperform the market indexes , but some of them outperform in many years . With an index you will get average results . With an active manager you " might " do better than average . So you can view active management as a higher risk , potentially higher reward investment approach . On the other hand , if you want to diversify some of your investments into international stocks , bonds , junk bonds , and real estate ( REITs ) active management is highly likely to be better than indexing . For these specialized areas specialized knowledge and research is needed .
The probability of a single # 1 bond winning a prize in any given month are 1/24000 ( see <URL> - the linked terms and conditions say that a bond unit is # 1 ) . Ignoring the small probability of two or more bonds winning in the same month , that makes the probability of a win in a single month from # 100 of bonds equal to 1/240 . So , at current interest rates , the expected wait is 20 years . However since the probability of winning varies with interest rates , which are currently quite low by historical standards , the real expected wait from now is probably lower .
You 've nicely narrowed down your question to how to invest extra cash for long term gain . Easy : Plagiarize from schools . Universities also have cash they must invest for maximum long-term gain , volatility is not a concern . This is their Endowment , and the future of the school depends on its growth . But they must prove to donors , Board and attorney general that they are investing prudently per the law ( UPMIFA ) . Do what they do . Schools are happy to tell you . You 'll get a lot of answers , all of which vaguely resemble this : 50 % domestic stocks 20 % international stocks 10 % real estate 20 % bonds Of course the big institutions are hands-on and even <URL> , but they can afford the overhead of managers to do all that . For us mortals , I 'd say index funds ( or rather , ETFs . ) Because our biggest win is keeping overhead costs low , like John Bogle discusses widely . I was not able to find real estate ETFs I was happy with , so I just put that fraction into domestic stocks . Use ETFs when not in a retirement account , because index ( mutual ) funds generate lots of taxable events which make taxes a nightmare .
How I recognize a silver bubble : It seems like everyone is talking about their latest silver investment . This is similar to tech stocks in the '90s and real estate in the ' 00s . Your plumber is talking about how he is making a fortune in silver . Your brother-in-law is talking about how is making a fortune in silver . New investment products are being announced almost daily offering different ways to invest in silver - indexes , etf 's , mining companies , securitization products , etc. . Many investors talk about how you ca n't go wrong with silver . It 's a " no-brainer " . I do n't think silver is in a bubble . You state : What goes up , must come down I 'm not sure I agree with this . Yes , prices fluctuate . But most prices generally go up over time due to inflation - somethings more than others . Was coffee in a bubble in early 2005 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this : Was gold in a bubble in Argentina in 2001 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this ( sorry for the mismatching chart scales ) : Was gold in a bubble in Weimar in 1922 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this : Maybe US farmland is in a bubble since prices are rising rather dramatically . I do n't think it is in a bubble since I rarely hear anyone talking about investing in farmland :
As you alluded to in your question , there is not one answer that will be true for all mutual funds . In fact , I would argue the question is not specific to mutual funds but can be applied to almost anyone who must make an investment decision : a mutual fund manager , hedge fund manager , or an individual investor . Even though money going into a company 401 ( k ) retirement savings plan is typically automatically allocated to different funds as we have specified , this is generally not the case for other investment accounts . For example , I also have a Roth IRA in which I have some money from each paycheck direct deposited and it 's up to me to decide whether to leave that money in cash or to invest it somewhere else . Every time you invest more money into a mutual fund , the fund manager has the same decision to make . There are two commonly used mutual fund figures that relate to your question : turnover rate , and cash reserves . Turnover rate measures the percent of a fund 's portfolio that changes every year . For example , a turnover rate of 100 % indicates that a fund replaces every asset it held at the beginning of the year with something else at the end of the year -- funds with turnover rates greater than 100 % average a holding period for a given asset of less than one year , and funds with turnover rates less than 100 % average a holding period for a given asset of more than one year . Cash reserves simply measure the amount of money funds choose to keep as cash instead of investing in other assets . Another important distinction to make is between actively managed funds and passively managed funds . Passively managed funds are often referred to as " index funds " and have as their goal only to match the returns of a given index or some other benchmark . Actively managed funds on the other hand try to beat the market by exploiting so-called market inefficiencies ; e.g. buying undervalued assets , selling overvalued assets , " timing " the market , etc. . To answer your question for a specific fund , I would encourage you to look at the fund 's prospectus . I take as one example of a passively managed fund the Vanguard 500 Index Fund ( VFINX ) , a mutual fund that was created to track the S&amp;P 500 . In <URL> , the fund states that , " to track its target index as closely as possible , the Fund attempts to remain fully invested in stocks " . Furthermore , the prospectus states that " the fund 's daily cash balance may be invested in one or more Vanguard CMT Funds , which are very low-cost money market funds . " Therefore , we would expect both this fund 's turnover rate and cash reserves to be extremely low . When we look at <URL> , we see this is true -- it is currently at a 4.8 % turnover rate and holds 0.0 % in short term reserves . Therefore , we can assume this fund is regularly purchasing shares ( similar to a dollar cost averaging strategy ) instead of holding on to cash and purchasing shares together at a specific time . For actively managed funds , the picture will tend to look a little different . For example , if we look at the <URL> , we can see it has a turnover rate of 42 % , and holds around .95 % in cash/short term reserves . In this case , we can safely guess that trading activity may not be as regular as a passively managed fund , as an active manager attempts to time the market . You may find mutual funds that have much higher cash reserves -- perhaps 10 % or even more . Granted , it is impossible to know the exact trading strategy of a mutual fund , and for good reason -- if we knew for example , that a fund purchases shares every day at 2:30 PM in order to realign with the S&amp;P 500 , then sellers of S&amp;P components could up the prices at that time to exploit the mutual fund 's trade strategy . Large traders are constantly trying to find ways to conceal their actual trading activity in order to avoid these exact problems . Finally , I feel obligated to note that it is important to keep in mind that trade frequency is linked to transactions costs -- in general , the more frequently an investment manager ( whether it be you or a mutual fund manager ) executes trades , the more that manager will lose in transactions costs .
That 's the kind of strategy that " works until it does n't . " Some people have observed daily , monthly , " seasonal " patterns in trading that exist , usually for psychological reasons . These observations work until enough people " catch on . " Then they move the calendar . In order to continue to succeed , you have to keep one step ahead of the crowd .
" Minimum investment " is what you need to put into the account to open it . They may charge you maintenance fees if you fall below some amount , but once you 're in you 're in . They 'll be more than happy to take their management fee . :)
As I recall , the Scottrade minimum is only $ 500 . ( By the way , Scottrade has a feature to automatically reinvest any dividends which the securities pay ) Once you have an account , you can buy into an index fund . SPY tracks the S&amp;P 500 . It is also currently paying nearly 2 % in dividends . You can shop for other alternatives here : <URL>
What you propose puts you at risk to owe tax next April . If you are using the Traditional , pre-tax account , $ 100 you put in will reduce the tax withheld , so you might see $ 70 less in your check . By bumping the allowances you withhold even less . If the employer is doing it right , the allowances do n't change for the fact that your 401 ( k ) changes deposits . Edit - To clarify - Traditional 401 ( k ) are withheld pretax . The effect is that my W2 reflects a box 1 Wages figure that is lower than either my Social Security wages or Medicare wages . All else being equal , 2 people with same number of W4 allowances , first has $ 60K income with a $ 10K 401 ( k ) deduction , the second has $ 50K income . The federal tax withholding should be identical as payroll withhold on the same $ 50K for each . My <URL> may help explain this a bit more . To specifically answer your last edited line , if your W4 is perfect , and you increase 401 ( k ) deductions , aside from trivial anomalies , it should remain perfect .
Shares often come associated with a set of rights , such as ability to vote in the outcome of the company . Some shares do not have this right , however . With your ability to vote in the outcome of the company , you could help dictate that the company paid dividends at a point in time . Or many other varieties of outcomes . Also , if there were any liquidity events due to demand of the shares , this is typically at a much higher price than the shares are now when the company is private/closely held .
end question
start question
When does Public Service Loan Forgiveness NOT make sense ?
At your income , I would guess that you will not be able to get a monthly payment low enough to stretch your loan out for longer than 10 years . However , even if you could , I would not recommend the loan forgiveness program for you . I realize that $ 28k sounds like a lot of money , and it would be nice if you did n't have to pay it . However , the PSLF program lasts 10 years before you see any benefit . You and your wife have a high income , and you should be able to pay off this loan much , much quicker than 10 years . ( One or two years should be your goal . ) The quicker you pay it off , the less interest you will pay . If you decide to pursue the PSLF program , you will be stuck in your current job for the next 10 years . You did n't specify what your monthly payment is , or what the current length of the loan is , but let 's look at a few scenarios . Let 's say that you were somehow able to get by with interest-only payments on the loan for the next 10 years . ( I do n't think this is possible . ) In this scenario , you would be paying $ 140 per month , $ 1680 per year , or almost $ 17k over the next 10 years , and you will remain $ 28k in debt until you complete 10 years at your job , when you 'll get the debt forgiven . Let 's say instead that you arrange a $ 200 per month payment . ( At your income , I do n't think you 'll be able to obtain a monthly payment this low . ) Without the PSLF , this would pay off the loan in 20 years . You would be paying $ 2400 per year , or $ 24k over the next 10 years , and at the end of the program you 'd still have over $ 18k of principal that would need to be forgiven . With both of these situations , it is true that you end the program with significant loan forgiveness . However , you are still paying a lot , and since most of it is interest , you still remain at a very high debt burden . If you need to leave your job for any reason , it will be a tremendously costly decision . Instead , let 's say that you decide to skip the PSLF program , and just pay it off as quickly as possible . If you pay $ 1250 per month , you 'd have the loan completely paid off in 24 months , paying a total of under $ 29.8 k , meaning that you will have paid less than $ 1800 in total interest . Summary : Scenario 1 : $ 140 per month , $ 17k total cost , 10-year commitment ( not really possible ) Scenario 2 : $ 200 per month , $ 24k total cost , 10-year commitment Scenario 3 : $ 1250 per month , $ 30k total cost , No commitment , 2-year payoff The idea behind the PSLF program is to provide relief for people with a very high student loan debt and reward them for taking a low-paying public service job . You , however , have a great income , and can afford to pay it off early . If I were you , I would not want to make the 10-year commitment to a job just to save at most $ 6k ( probably less ) .
You do n't have to make the repairs , if they 're just cosmetic . The insurance company does n't care if your house looks good or not . On the other hand , if the repairs are structurally necessary to prevent water damage to the house , not making them may result in the company raising your rate or not renewing the policy due to the increased risk . You can try asking your agent if you can get a ruling on that now , before deciding whether to spend the money . And of course if you do n't do it , they may not count this damage toward your deductible for future damage this year .
How does it work * ? To keep it simple , let 's say that A shares trade at 500 on average between April 2nd 2014 and April 1st 2015 ( one year anniversary ) , then if C shares trade on average : above 495 ( less than 1 % discount ) , you 'll get nothing between 490 and 495 ( 1-2 % ) , you 'll get 20 % of the difference ( between 500 and 49x ) between 485 and 490 ( 2-3 % ) , you 'll get 40 % of the difference between 480 and 485 ( 3-4 % ) , you 'll get 60 % of the difference between 475 and 480 ( 4-5 % ) , you 'll get 80 % of the difference below 475 ( more than 5 % discount ) , you 'll get $ 25 The payment will be made either in cash or in shares within 90 days . Can you make money out of it ? It may work : let 's say you manage to buy the Cs at a 2 % discount to As now , say 490 vs 500 . At the end of the period , if Cs have traded on average at a 0.8 % discount to As , you do n't get anything , so the result of your trade will depend on whether Cs are trading at less than 2 % discount vs. As when you unwind your trade . However , if the average discount has been 0.8 % , then you would have had opportunities to exit at a gain , but that would require your monitoring the spread carefully . It may not work : you buy at a 2 % discount but the market values the voting rights at more than 5 % per share ( it can happen - see for example Discovery Communications C shares trading at a discount of 6.1 % vs A shares as I write this ) - let 's say 8 % per share on average over the year : you get paid 5 % but have lost 6 % which results in a net loss of 1 % for the trade . The difficulties come from the fact that the formula is based on an average price over a year , which is not directly tradable , and that the spread is only covered between 1 % and 5 % . In practice , it is unlikely that the market will attribute a large premium to voting shares considering that Page &amp; Brin keep the majority and any discount of Cs vs As above 2-3 % ( to include cost of trading + borrowing ) will probably trigger some arbitrage which will prevent it to extend too much . But there is no guarantee . How is it going so far ? FYI here is what the spread has looked like since April 3rd : * details in the section called " Class C Settlement Agreement " in <URL>
The closer the contribution is to the December 31st date , the more profitable that specific contribution is , only taking into consideration the 5 % discount . On your case , the first contribution that beats your student loans interest rate is the August one , where you get about 9 % annual return , the remaining contributions go up from there .
I do n't know of any free API 's for these data , but I 'll provide what information I can . Compiling all of this information from the <URL> system and exposing an interface to it requires a fair amount of work and maintenance , so it 's usually market data companies that have the motivation and resources to provide such interfaces . I know of a few options that may or may not be close to what you 're looking for . The SEC provides <URL> to the EDGAR system . You could download and parse the text files they provide . Yahoo Finance provides summary files of financial statements ( e.g. , <URL> ) as well as links to the full statements in the EDGAR system . Once again , parsing may be your only option for these data . Xignite , a proprietary market data provider , provides a <URL> . If you need these data for a commercial application , you could contact them and work something out . ( Frankly , if you need these data for a commercial application , <URL> ) The <URL> provides data from financial statements . I believe it 's also exposed through several of their API 's . As with most financial data , CRSP is sort of a gold standard , although I have n't personally used their API to fetch data from financial statements , so I ca n't speak for it specifically . <URL> mentions the quantmod R package and <URL> . I ca n't vouch for either of those options personally . Unfortunately , you 'll probably have to do some parsing unless you can find a paid data provider that 's already compiled this information in a machine-readable format .
There are many different methods for a corporation to get money , but they mostly fall into three categories : earnings , debt and equity . Earnings would be just the corporation 's accumulation of cash due to the operation of its business . Perhaps if cash was needed for a particular reason immediately , a business may consider selling a division or group of assets to another party , and using the proceeds for a different part of the business . Debt is money that ( to put it simply ) the corporation legally must repay to the lender , likely with periodic interest payments . Apart from the interest payments ( if any ) and the principal ( original amount leant ) , the lender has no additional rights to the value of the company . There are , basically , 2 types of corporate debt : bank debt , and bonds . Bank debt is just the corporation taking on a loan from a bank . Bonds are offered to the public - ie : you could potentially buy a " Tesla Bond " , where you give Tesla $ 1k , and they give you a stated interest rate over time , and principal repayments according to a schedule . Which type of debt a corporation uses will depend mostly on the high cost of offering a public bond , the relationships with current banks , and the interest rates the corporation thinks it can get from either method . Equity [ or , shares ] is money that the corporation ( to put it simply ) likely does not have a legal obligation to repay , until the corporation is liquidated ( sold at the end of its life ) and all debt has already been repaid . But when the corporation is liquidated , the shareholders have a legal right to the entire value of the company , after those debts have been paid . So equity holders have higher risk than debt holders , but they also can share in higher reward . That is why stock prices are so volatile - the value of each share fluctuates based on the perceived value of the entire company . Some equity may be offered with specific rules about dividend payments - maybe they are required [ a ' preferred ' share likely has a stated dividend rate almost like a bond , but also likely has a limited value it can ever receive back from the corporation ] , maybe they are at the discretion of the board of directors , maybe they will never happen . There are 2 broad ways for a corporation to get money from equity : a private offering , or a public offering . A private offering could be a small mom and pop store asking their neighbors to invest 5k so they can repair their business 's roof , or it could be an ' Angel Investor ' [ think Shark Tank ] contributing significant value and maybe even taking control of the company . Perhaps shares would be offered to all current shareholders first . A public offering would be one where shares would be offered up to the public on the stock exchange , so that anyone could subscribe to them . Why a corporation would use any of these different methods depends on the price it feels it could get from them , and also perhaps whether there are benefits to having different shareholders involved in the business [ ie : an Angel investor would likely be involved in the business to protect his/her investment , and that leadership may be what the corporation actually needs , as much or more than money ] . Whether a corporation chooses to gain cash from earnings , debt , or equity depends on many factors , including but not limited to : ( 1 ) what assets / earnings potential it currently has ; ( 2 ) the cost of acquiring the cash [ ie : the high cost of undergoing a public offering vs the lower cost of increasing a bank loan ] ; and ( 3 ) the ongoing costs of that cash to both the corporation and ultimately the other shareholders - ie : a 3 % interest rate on debt vs a 6 % dividend rate on preferred shares vs a 5 % dividend rate on common shares [ which would also share in the net value of the company with the other current shareholders ] . In summary : Earnings would be generally preferred , but if the company needs cash immediately , that may not be suitable . Debt is generally cheap to acquire and interest rates are generally lower than required dividend rates . Equity is often expensive to acquire and maintain [ either through dividend payments or by reduction of net value attributable to other current shareholders ] , but may be required if a new venture is risky . ie : a bank/bondholder may not want to lend money for a new tech idea because it is too risky to just get interest from - they want access to the potential earnings as well , through equity .
It would n't hurt . Even if you have n't had any credit or loan activity , someone may have gotten a card or a loan under your name : identity theft . That gives you the opportunity to clear things up before you apply the first time . Granted , it may be a long shot , but as littleadv said : " Why not ? "
No . Even if you do n't need the additional salary income now , you might be able to contribute the incremental amount over the Roth max to either of the other two types of IRAs , or maybe even something else . You never want to take a lower salary , especially not in exchange for something that is conditional e.g. benefits . Your salary is the only thing that is guaranteed as a condition of employment . Other things can be changed by the employer at a future point in time . If you have two different job offers and the salaries are different , that is a separate scenario . You should make the decision based on overall comparison , not just using Roth limit contribution criteria .
The Fidelity funds have an expense ratio , and while some funds may have little to no profit , having you as a customer lets them try to sell you on their managed account/portfolio and other services . It 's possible they do n't make much or any money from you at all , but with so many accounts it 's fine as long as it averages out . Similar to having a credit card and never paying interest on it , but reaping the rewards anyway . Averaged out , they make plenty of money across all accounts . An <URL> is usually given as a percentage , and it 's the amount you pay for the fund per year . If it has a 1 % ER , and you have $ 1,000 invested in it , then it costs you $ 10 for the year ( a very simplified example ) . You wo n't notice this as a direct transaction since it gets taken from the funds assets directly , but this is lowering the return ( or worsening the loss ) on the fund . You can find the ER in your Fidelity account for any funds that are available to you . Something else I thought of is that you add liquidity to their funds , and your assets increase the amount " under management " which may be a selling point , may lower overall costs , etc. .
The fact that you got your check does n't mean you 're not going to be audited . It just means that your return was properly filed and accepted . Audit notices usually start to appear at about half a year after returns are filed , and come as late as 3 years after . In fact , your tax return can be audited many years after you filed it , if the information on it affects a future year tax liability ( for example - depreciation deduction , passive activity , NOL , capital losses , foreign tax credits , and many other things that can stretch into the future ) .
At its heart , I think the best spirit of " donation " is helping others less fortunate than yourself . But as long as the US remains solvent , the chief benefit of paying down the national debt is - like paying off a credit card - lowering the future interest payments the U.S. taxpayer has to make . Since the wealthy pay a disproportionately large portion of taxes ( per capita ) , your hard earned money would be disproportionately benefitting the wealthy . So I 'd recommend you do one or both of the following : instead target your donations to a charity whose average beneficiary is less fortunate than yourself take political action with an aim towards balancing the federal budget ( since the US national debt is principally financed in the form of 30 year treasuries , the U.S. will be completely out of debt if it can maintain a balanced budget for 30 years recanted , see below )
If you have enough experience and information to make a reasonable guess as to the likelihood of ( 1 ) , then it makes sense to hold , generally speaking . If it were ME , and I did n't have much experience or knowledge on the specific companies involved , I 'd probably take the gain . But that 's just what I would do , based on the isolated and limited info you provided . Reality is probably a lot more complicated .
How about MSN 's <URL> ? ShareBuilder 's <URL> <URL> has news about them . E * Trade refers me to <URL> .
It can be done , but it takes a very special set of circumstances : You must be willing to buy only items that you can get for free or nearly free . You must be willing to buy as many items as the store will allow you to in a single visit The store must offer programs like double or triple manufacturers coupons . You must be willing to do everything you can to get as many coupons as you can . You must take advantage of the store loyalty programs . You must have many hours free to plan these types of events , and to gather all the required coupons . Plus the time to get that many items off the shelves and into the carts . And the most important item - There must be some extraordinary deal at that store that day or that week that allows them to essentially give you free money . If you want to buy only the products you like , in quantities that you need , at the closest store to your house you ca n't reach those levels . When you read about these types of shoppers keep in mind they are not going to this extreme to do their regular grocery shopping .
One reason a lot of bond ETFs like Financials are because of how financial companies work . They usually have amazing cash flows due to deposits and fees and therefore have little risk associated with paying their debts in the short term . The rest of VCSH contains companies with low default risk and good cash flow generation as well : GE Verizon Apple Abbive This is of course the objective of VCSH : Seeks to provide current income with modest price fluctuation . Invests primarily in high-quality ( investment-grade ) corporate bonds . Maintains a dollar-weighted average maturity of 1 to 3 years Banks themselves issue a lot of bonds to raise cash to lend for other purposes . Banks are intermediary and help make funds liquid for investors and spenders . Hope that helped answer your question . If not comment below and I 'll try to adjust the answer to be more complete .
The company gets the proceeds from the sales of shares on the open market . If a company is selling 1,000,000 shares at $ 12/share then they will receive $ 12,000,000 from the underwriter minus some fees that the underwriter will collect . The part that ties into valuation is to consider what percentage is the company selling of itself that is coming from its own holdings . If the company is putting out 10 % of its shares in the IPO from treasury holdings on a $ 10B valuation then it will get $ 1B minus the fees I 'd suspect . Where I worked in late 1990s/early 2000s had an IPO where the underwriter did a bridge loan and the IPO so that the company did n't get all the money raised but did get enough to run operations for a while before ending operations . <URL> notes that after an IPO other offerings would be called " seasoned equity offering " that may or may not be dilutive as they could come from new or existing shares .
To compare apples-to-apples , let 's pretend that you are considering saving $ 5,500 each year ( $ 458 per month ) , which is the current IRA contribution limit . And we 'll compare your 401 ( k ) to a traditional IRA , which is pre-tax just like your 401 ( k ) . Let 's assume the rate of growth on your investment is 8 % . In the 401 ( k ) , when you contribute $ 458 per month , your employer kicks in another $ 46 with your 10 % match . After 5 years of investment at a rate of growth of 8 % , your account is worth $ 37,032 . In the traditional IRA , with no match , after 5 years of investment at $ 458 per month and a rate of growth of 8 % , your account is worth $ 33,652 . If the rate of growth and expenses are equal between the 401 ( k ) and the IRA , the match makes a big difference . However , as you noted , 401 ( k ) accounts typically have a limited investment options and higher expenses . To beat the 401 ( k ) with the IRA in 5 years , you would need to earn about an 11.6 % growth rate in the IRA . This is a difference of 3.6 % , which can cover a lot of 401 ( k ) expenses . The longer you are investing , the easier it is for the IRA to beat the 401 ( k ) . Looking 10 years into the future , the IRA would only need to earn 9.7 % ( or 1.7 % higher ) to meet the 401 ( k ) , and a 20 year outlook only requires that the IRA earn 8.75 % ( only 0.75 % higher ) . It is important to remember that once you leave your job , you can roll your 401 ( k ) funds into an IRA . So the timeframe you need to look at for this comparison is how long you will be at your current job . Ultimately , the answer to this problem depends on how long you plan on staying with this employer ( which determines how long you will be getting this match ) and how bad the 401 ( k ) 's investment options are . You also mentioned the vesting period . Obviously , if you are planning on leaving the employer before the vesting period is complete , this entire discussion on the match is moot , as you wo n't be receiving any of the match . Note : I used <URL> to determine these returns . It is pretty handy for comparing different investment strategies .
The biggest reason why one might want to leave 401k money invested in an ex-employer 's plan is that the plan offers some superior investment opportunities that are not available elsewhere , e.g. some mutual funds that are not open to individual investors such as S&amp;P index funds for institutional investors ( these have expense ratios even smaller than the already low expense ratios of good S&amp;P index funds ) or " hot " funds that are ( usually temporarily ) closed to new investors , etc. . The biggest reason to roll over 401k money from an ex-employer 's plan to the 401k plan of a new employer is essentially the same : the new employer 's plan offers superior investment opportunities that are not available elsewhere . Of course , the new employer 's 401k plan must accept such roll overs . I do not believe that it is a requirement that a 401k plan must accept rollovers , but rather an option that a plan can be set up to allow for or not . Another reason to roll over 401k money from one plan to another ( rather than into an IRA ) is to keep it safe from creditors . If you are sued and found liable for damages in a court proceeding , the plaintiff can come after IRA assets but not after 401k money . Also , you can take a loan from the 401k money ( subject to various rules about how much can be borrowed , payment requirements etc ) which you can not from an IRA . That being said , the benefits of keeping 401k money as 401k money must be weighed against the usually higher administrative costs and usually poorer and more limited choices of investment opportunities available in most 401k plans as Muro has said already .
For all intents and purposes , a lease affects your credit score in a similar manner as a loan . In fact , a lease often requires slightly better credit in order to get the best terms , compared to a loan . Alternative answer to your question : <URL> . A car loan may not be the answer . Sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There are cases in which some Lease agreements will allow you to exit them without charge , but you can not simply vacate a location without paying . Cases that would allow you to leave the lease , if they are stated within the lease , are usually for reasons like : You or an immediate family member must move for a job . If you can prove that you have a job that is over a certain distance from the place you are currently residing in , there may be a clause that would allow you to break you lease , or simply the landlord may be more willing to allow you to go . You find the apartment or house to be unlivable If situations have changed , and conditions are now such that you can not safely live in the place , you may be able to break the lease . If you have a copy of your lease , look for these clauses or others near the end , that 's where they appear in mine . There are also other situations where if you give sufficient notice , and have been a long time tenant , breaking a lease may be only a small fee , certainly worth looking into rather than facing any legal recourse .
end question
start question
How does one interpret financial data for stocks listed on multiple exchanges ?
First and foremost you need to be aware of what you are comparing . In this case , HSBC as traded on the NYSE exchange is not common shares , but an <URL> ( American Depository Receipt ) with a 5:1 ratio from the actual shares . So for most intents and purposes owning one ADR is like owning five common shares . But for special events like dividends , there may be other considerations , such as the depository bank ( the institution that created the ADR ) may take a percentage . Further , given that some people , accounts or institutions may be required to invest in a given country or not , there may be some permanent price dislocation between the shares and the ADR , which can further lead to discrepancies which are then highlighted by the seeming difference in dividends .
The " D " suffix is designated for stocks that are going through a corporate reorganization and is typically applied for those stocks that is about to or just has undergone a reverse split . It typically lasts about 20 trading days ( almost a calendar month ) . In the case of MDCN ( Medican Enterprises ) is traded as MDCND for the period 20150418 until 20150514 . On 20150515 it reverted back to MDCN . It had a 10:1 reverse split with exdate 20150420 . Regarding multiple tickers - a ticker is just a point-in-time identifier . This company has had many tickers across its lifetime : TCXC TCXB TCXBD MDCN MDCND and possible XCAL and XCALE . The 5th letter suffix is detailed here : <URL>
They should send you the new card about 30-60 days before the expiration . I 've never heard of a case where you actually need to ask for it to happen , it should be done automatically . The card expiration is a security feature , it 's not the end of the contract between you and the credit card company where they " need to think about it " whether to send you a new one . Check if the original card was lost ( or worse - stolen ) while en route .
In the context of EDV , 4.46 is the indicated dividend rate . The indicated dividend rate is the rate that would be paid per share throughout the next year , assuming dividends stayed the same as prior payment . sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
It reminds me of the Efficient Market Hypothesis , except that just states in its weakest form that the current market price accounts for all information embedded in previous market prices . In other words , people buying today at 42 know it was selling for 40 yesterday , and the patterns and such . To say that stock is memoryless strikes me as not quite right -- to the extent that stocks are valued based on earnings , much of what we infer about future earnings relies on past and present earnings . One obvious counterexample to this " memoryless " claim is bankruptcy . If a stock files bankruptcy , and there is n't enough money to pay senior debt , your shares are worth 0 in perpetuity .
See the FX section of the <URL> . Foreign Exchange <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
How long is a piece of string ? This will depend on many variables . How many trades will you make in a day ? What income would you be expecting to make ? What expectancy do you need to achieve ? Which markets you will choose to trade ? Your first step should be to develop a Trading Plan , then develop your trading rules and your risk management . Then you should back test your strategy and then use a virtual account to practice losing on . Because one thing you will get is many losses . You have to learn to take a loss when the market moves against you . And you need to let your profits run and keep your losses small . A good book to start with is Trade Your Way to Financial Freedom by Van Tharp . It will teach you about Expectancy , Money Management , Risk Management and the Phycology of Trading . Two thing I can recommend are : 1 ) to look into position and trend trading and other types of short term trading instead of day trading . You would usually place your trades after market close together with your stops and avoid being in front of the screen all day trying to chase the market . You need to take your emotion out of your trading if you want to succeed ; 2 ) do n't trade penny stocks , trade commodities , FX or standard stocks , but keep away from penny stocks . Just because you can buy them for a penny does not mean they are cheap .
If I buy VUSA from one exchange , can I sell it in a different exchange , assuming my brokerage account lets me trade in both exchanges ? Or is it somehow tied to the exchange I bought it from ? This does n't happen for all securities and between all stock exchanges . So that is dependent on broker and country . I checked for VUSA with Selftrade . They categorically refused allowing me to trade in VUSA in different exchanges . I can only buy and sell in same currency only , albeit sell ( buy ) in the same exchange where I buy ( sell ) from . Should be the same behaviour for all brokers for us mere mortals , if you are a bank or a millionaire than that might be a different question . The VUSA you quote is quoted in GBP in LSE and in EUR in AEX , and the ETF has been created by an Irish entity and has an Irish ISIN . As Chris mentioned below , happens between US and Canadian exchanges , but not sure it happens across all exchanges . You can not deal in inter-listed stocks in LSE and NYSE . Since it 's the same asset , its value should not vary across exchanges once you compensate for exchange rates , right ? Yes , else it opens up itself for arbitrage ( profit without any risk ) which everybody wants . So even if any such instance occurs , either people will exploit it to make the arbitrage profit zero ( security reflects the equilibrium price ) or the profit from such transaction is so less , compared with the effort involved , that people will tend to ignore it . Anyways arbitrage profit is very difficult to garner nowadays , considering the super computers at work in the market who exploit these discrepancies , the moment they see them and bring the security right to the zero arbitrage profit point . If there 's no currency risk because of # 2 , what other factors should I consider when choosing an exchange to trade in ? Liquidity ? Something else ? Time difference , by the time you wake up to trade in Japan , the Japanese markets would have closed . Tax implications across multiple continents . Law of the land , providing protection to investors . Finding a broker dealing in markets you want to explore or dealing with multiple brokers . Regulatory headaches .
The short answer is " yes " , paying more towards the loan as soon as a you can will reduce the interest . There are <URL> or you could work up a spreadsheet using the specialized family of functions : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . My personal view : The amount of interest you offset in this manner is going to be fairly small ( I 'm going to guess less than $ 5 or $ 10 a month , but I have n't done the math ) . I would say what is more important is to automate your payments at a comfortable level , while making sure your other obligations are taken care of . Then add an extra payment when you save up a chunk of money to pay towards it . Make sure you never miss a payment . That means making sure you set up emergency fund to cover the payments if you lose your job or need to visit a sick family member for a while or the car breaks down or ...
Wikipedia has a nice definition of <URL> ( emphasis below is mine ) : [ ... ] refers to an individual 's ability to make informed judgments and effective decisions about the use and management of their money . Raising interest in personal finance is now a focus of state-run programs in countries including Australia , Japan , the United States and the UK . [ ... ] As for how you can become financially literate , here are some suggestions : Learn about how basic financial products works : bank accounts , mortgages , credit cards , investment accounts , insurance ( home , car , life , disability , medical . ) Free printed &amp; online materials should be available from your existing financial service providers to help you with your existing products . In particular , learn about the fees , interest , or other charges you may incur with these products . Becoming fee-aware is a step towards financial literacy , since financially literate people compare costs . Seek out additional information on each type of product from unbiased sources ( i.e. sources not trying to sell you something . ) Get out of debt and stay out of debt . This may take a while . Focus on your highest-interest loans first . Learn the difference between good debt and bad debt . Learn about compound interest . Once you understand compound interest , you 'll understand why being in debt is bad for your financial well-being . If you are n't already saving money for retirement , start now . Investigate whether your employer offers an advantageous matched 401 ( k ) plan ( or group RRSP/DC plan for Canadians ) or a pension plan . If your employer offers a good plan , sign up . If you get to choose your own investments , keep it simple and favor low-cost balanced index funds until you understand the different types of investments . Read the material provided by the plan sponsor , try online tools provided , and seek out additional information from unbiased sources . If your employer does n't offer an advantageous retirement plan , open an individual retirement account or IRA ( or personal RRSP for Canadians . ) If your employer does offer a plan , you can set one of these up to save even more . You could start with access to a family of low-cost mutual funds ( examples : <URL> for Americans , or <URL> for Canadians ) or earn advanced credit by learning about discount brokers and self-directed accounts . Understand how income taxes and other taxes work . If you have an accountant prepare your taxes , ask questions . If you prepare your taxes yourself , understand what you 're doing and do n't file blind . Seek help if necessary . There are many good books on how income tax works . Software packages that help you self-file often have online help worth reading -- read it . Learn about life insurance , medical insurance , disability insurance , wills , living wills &amp; powers of attorney , and estate planning . Death and illness can derail your family 's finances . Learn how these things can help . Seek out and read key books on personal finance topics . e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> Seek out and read good personal finance blogs . There 's a wealth of information available for free on the Internet , but do check facts and assumptions . Here are <URL> and <URL> . Subscribe to a personal finance periodical and read it . Good ones to start with are <URL> in the U.S. and <URL> in Canada . The business section in your local newspaper may sometimes have personal finance articles worth reading , too . Shameless plug : Ask more questions on this site . The Personal Finance &amp; Money Stack Exchange is here to help you learn about money &amp; finance , so you can make better financial decisions . We 're all here to learn and help others learn about money . Keep learning !
I think Infochimps has what you are looking for : <URL> and <URL> .
The only thing that makes a stock worthless is when the company goes out of business . Note that bankruptcy , by itself , does not mean the company is closing . It could successfully restructure its affairs and come out of bankruptcy with a better outlook . Being a small or unprofitable business may cause a company 's to trade in the " penny stock " range , but there is still some value there . Since most dying companies will pass through the penny stock phase , you may be able to track down what you 're looking for by finding companies who have been ( or are about to be ) delisted . Delisting is not death , it 's just the point at which the company 's shares no longer meet the qualifications to be traded on a particular exchange . If you find old stock certificates in your grandmother 's sock drawer , they may be a treasure , or they may be worthless pieces of paper if the company changed its ownership and Grandma did n't know about it .
There is no one answer to this question , but there are some generalities . Most exchanges make a distinction between the passive and the aggressive sides of a trade . The passive participant is the order that was resting on the market at the time of the trade . It is an order that based on its price was not executable at the time , and therefore goes into the order book . For example , I 'm willing to sell 100 shares of a stock at $ 9.98 but nobody wants to buy that right now , so it remains as an open order on the exchange . Then somebody comes along and is willing to meet my price ( I am glossing over lots of details here ) . So they aggressively take out my order by either posting a market-buy , or specifically that they want to buy 100 shares at either $ 9.98 , or at some higher price . Most exchanges will actually give me , as the passive ( i.e. liquidity making ) investor a small rebate , while the other person is charged a few fractions of a cent . Google found <URL> details , and most other exchanges make their fees public as well . As of this writing the generic price charged/credited : $ 0.0023 per share ( credit ) for orders that provide liquidity to the Book $ 0.003 per share ( fee ) for orders that take liquidity from the Book But they provide volume discounts , and many of the larger deals do fall into another tier of volume , which provides a different price structure .
support and resistance levels exist . these are just psychological barriers that are easily charted . gaps fill , breakouts happen , volume and price diverge and converge indicators that need charting frequently do n't work simply because there is n't enough pricing information and volume .
Two " data sources " I 've used : Former coworkers I 've kept in touch with , especially if they 're now working as hiring managers for the type of job I 'm seeking . A quick call to them , and they 'll usually provide the range you can expect to see . Recruiters . There are several recruiters that I 've been in occasional contact with for several years . None of them have ever placed me , but I 've forwarded their open positions to some friends . When I 've asked they 've been willing to give me typical ranges for annual salary and hourly contract rates . Obviously , you need to keep your network active in order to be able to tap either of these sources for data .
It is just a different category of stock issued by a company that gives its owners different treatment when it comes to dividend payment and a few other financial transactions . Preferred stock holders get treated with some preference with regard to the company 's profits and assets . For example , dividends are typically guaranteed to preferred stock holders whereas the leadership in the company can elect at any time not to pay dividends to common stockholders . In the event the company is liquidated , the preferred stockholders also get to be in line ahead of common stockholders when the assets are distributed .
You will want to focus on how much is needed for retirement , and what types of investments within the current 401K offerings will get you there . Also will need to discuss non-401K investments such as an IRA , college savings , savings for a house , and an emergency fund . The 401K should be a part of your overall financial picture , how much you invest in the 401K depends on the options you have ( Roth 401K available ) , how much matching ( some a little or a lot ) , and your family plans . You have a few choices : Your company through the 401K provider may provide this service . They may have limited knowledge in what non-401K funds you should invest in , but should be able to discuss types of investment . Fee only planner . They will be able to discus types of investments , and give you some suggestions . Because they do n't work on a commission they will not make the investment for you . You need to be able to make the actual selection of investments , so make sure you get criteria to focus on as part of the package . Commission based planner . Will make money off your investment choices . May steer you towards investments that their company offers or ones that offer them the best commissions in that investment type . If the 401K does n't use funds that the planner can research you will need to provide a copy of the prospectus provided by the 401K . My suggestion is the fee only planner . They balance the limited focus of the 401K company without limiting themselves to the funds their company sells . Before sitting down with the planner get in writing how they fee structure works . A flat fee or hourly fee planner will be expecting you to do all the investment work . This is what you want . Let the fee only planner help you define your plan . But also reanalyze the plan every few years as your needs change .
Why do people keep talking about 401K 's at work ? That is NOT dollar cost averaging . DCA refers to when you have a large sum of money . Do you invest it all at once or spread it out over several smaller purchases over a period of time ? There really is n't a " when " should I use it . It is simply a matter of where your preferences lie on the risk/reward scpectrum . DCA has lower risk and lower reward than lump sum investing . In my opinion , I do n't like it . DCA only works better than lump sum investing if the price drops . But if you think the price is going to drop , why are you buying the stock in the first place ? Example : Your uncle wins the lottery and gives you $ 50,000 . Do you buy $ 50,000 worth of Apple now , or do you buy $ 10,000 now and $ 10,000 a quarter for the next four quarters ? If the stock goes up , you will make more with lump-sum ( LS ) than you will with DCA . If the stock goes down , you will lose more with LS than you will with DCA . If the stock goes up then down , you will lose more with DCA than you will with LS . If the stock goes down then up , you will make more with DCA than you will with LS . So it 's a tradeoff . But , like I said , the whole point of you buying the stock is that you think it 's going to go up ! So why pick the strategy that performs worse in that scenario ?
What you 're asking for is a short-term , large return investment . When looking for big returns in a short period of time , risk is inevitable . The more risk you are willing to assume , the higher your potential returns . Of course , the flip is is that the higher your risk , the higher the potential to lose all your money ! Since this is an exercise for school ( and not real money and not your life savings ) your best bet is to " go big or go home " . You can safely assume 100 % risk ! Do n't look for value stocks , dividend stocks , or anything that pays a steady return over a long period of time . Instead , look for something risky that has the potential of going up , up , up in the next few months . Are you allowed to trade options in your fake portfolio ? Options can have big risk and big reward potential . Penny stocks are super volatile , too . Do some research , look for a fad . In other words , you will most likely lose it all . But you get a little lucky , you could win this thing outright by making some risky investments . A 5 % chance of winning $ 3000 vs 95 % of going broke may be pretty good odds if everyone else is value investing for just a few months . You will need to get lucky . Go big or go home !
An IAU share represents a smaller chunk of gold than a GLD share . GLD used to have a higher volume and better spread than IAU . These days I believe they are about the same .
end question
start question
What is the rationale behind stock markets retreating due to S&P having a negative outlook on the USA ?
Many of the major indices retreated today because of this news . Why ? How do the rising budget deficits and debt relate to the stock markets ? It does seem strange that there is a correlation between government debt and the stock market . But I could see many reasons for the reaction . The downgrade by S&amp;P may make it more expensive for the government to borrow money ( i.e. higher interest rates ) . This means it becomes more expensive for the government to borrow money and the government will probably need to raise taxes to cover the cost of borrowing . Rising taxes are not good for business . Also , many banks in the US hold US government debt . Rising yields will push down the value of their holdings which in turn will reduce the value of US debt on the businesses ' balance sheets . This weakens the banks ' balance sheets . They may even start to unload US bonds . Why is there such a large emphasis on the S&amp;P rating ? I do n't know . I think they have proven they are practically <URL> . That 's just my opinion . Many , though , still think they are a credible ratings agency . What happens when the debt ceiling is reached ? Theoretically the government has to stop borrowing money once the debt ceiling is reached . If this occurs and the government does not raise the debt ceiling then the government faces three choices : Raise taxes Default on debt payments Reduce spending
A credit balance can happen any time you have a store return , but paid the bill in full . It 's no big deal . Why not just charge the next gas purchase or small grocery store purchase , to cycle it through ? Yes - unused cards can get canceled by the bank , and that can hurt your credit score . In the US anyway . I 'm guessing it 's the same system or similar in Canada .
Emancipation Day falls on the 16th , but is being observed on the 15th this year . This is observed only in Washington , DC , therefore the IRS is closed on the 15th . This means the next business day is the 18th . Note that Maine and Massachusetts residents have until the 19th to file because there is a state holiday ( Patriot 's Day ) on April 18th . <URL>
The simplest was is to just divide your total dividends for the year by your starting capital for that year . For example , if you start with $ 100000 in capital and earn $ 5000 in dividends during the year your dividend yield for that year would be 5 % . Even if you have n't fully invested your total capital during the year it is still available to be invested and the total should be used for the calculation . Once the year has ended you will have a new balance for you capital , which is the value you should use in the following year . An alternative to this calculation is to use your average capital for the year , add your starting and ending capital values and divide by 2 . You may want to use this method if you trade often during the year instead of buying all your investments only at the start of the year . Also , another thing to consider is whether you include the dividends as additions to your capital or if you withdrawal dividends when they are paid for your own cashflow . If you reinvest your dividends , then they should be included as part of your capital .
I 've never heard of such a thing , but seems like if such a product existed it would be easily manipulated by the big trading firms - simply bet that trading volume will go up , then furiously buy and sell shares yourself to artificially drive up the volume . The fact that it would be so easily manipulated makes me think that no such product exists , but I could be wrong .
The key difference I 've found between a stock split and a stock dividend -- of the exact same stock and class , as opposed to a spin-off -- seems to be from the company 's own accounting perspective . There does n't appear to be any actual transfer of value to the shareholder with either kind of transaction ; i.e. in theory , each transaction would be immaterial to the value of your holdings . With respect to the company 's accounting , a stock split affects the par value of the shares , whereas a stock dividend reduces the retained earnings account in order to increase paid-in or contributed capital . I found a good online source which explains the history behind this accounting difference : <URL> . Small quote : [ ... ] Besides being based on fallacious reasoning , accounting for stock dividends by artificially reclassifying " earned " capital as " invested " capital conflicts with the reporting objective of reporting shareholders ' equity by source . Despite these limitations , this outdated accounting standard still applies . REASONS FOR STOCK DIVIDENDS . Since neither the corporation nor its shareholders apparently benefits from stock dividends , why do companies declare them ? 23 Occasionally , a company tries to give shareholders the illusion that they are receiving a real dividend . Another reason is merely to enable the corporation to take advantage of the accepted accounting practice of capitalizing retained earnings . Specifically , a company might wish to reduce an existing balance in retained earnings -- otherwise available for cash dividends -- so it can reinvest the earned assets represented by that balance without carrying a large balance in retained earnings . [ ... ] There 's a lot more on that page , before and after , worth reading . From another book : <URL> . Small quote : 5.6.2 . Stock dividends The distribution of dividends in the form of stock or " bonus " shares to existing shareholders typically involves a transfer for corporate law purposes of retained earnings into stated capital . It can been [ sic ] viewed as a deemed distribution of a cash dividend to the shareholders followed by a corresponding contribution to capital or as solely as an event at the corporate level which has no effect on the shareholders whose economic interest in the corporation is unchanged by the receipt of additional shares . The systems have taken varied approaches to the stock dividend problem . The treatment is in part a function of the rules dealing with distributions of stated capital . [ emphases above are mine ] [ ... continues w/descriptions of different countries ' tax treatments of the kinds of stock dividends . Includes U.S. , Sweden , Japan , Netherlands , Canada , Australia , U.K. , France , Germany . ... ] As far as why a corporation might want to capitalize earnings and reduce the equity otherwise available for dividends , I can only imagine that , ignoring taxes for a moment , that it may have something to do with capital ratios that need to be maintained for financing or regulatory purposes ? Yet , I remain curious . If I discover more on this then I 'll update my answer . Additional resources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There is no ready made forumulae . Put the Deposit in cell B3 as 10,000,000 Put the rate of interest in Cell B2 as 2 % [ Format this as Percnetage ] In Cell c3 write the formulae as = B3 * B2 * 3/12 [ Interest for 3 months till Dec ] In cell B4 write = B3 + C3 [ Principal as of 1st jan 13 and in cell C4 as = B4 * B2 [ Interest for full years ] In Cell B5 wirte = B4 + C4 [ new principal as of Jan 14 ] and in cell C5 as = B5 * B2 * 3/12 [ interest for 3 months on year 2014 ] In Cell B6 write = B5 + C5 . This is your revised amount at the end of period . My Calculation show this as 10,319,340 If you now want to find the interest for final amount of 10,300,000 use the Goal Seek function in XLS 2003 it is under tools - > Goal Seek , Enter the values as Set Cell : B6 To Value : 10,300,000 By Changing Cell : B2 The answer I got for the above problem is 1.87982299790449
For the last few years around 2,500 metric tonnes of gold have been produced each year . This is on top of existing supply of 160,000 metric tonnes . Existing yearly production is around 1.5 % of the existing supply . Charts from <URL> .
At a very high-level , the answer is yes , that 's a good idea . For money that you want to invest on the scale of decades , putting money into a broad , market-based fund has historically given the best returns . Something like the Vanguard S&amp;P 500 automatically gives you a diverse portfolio , with super low expenses . As it sounds like you understand , the near-term returns are volatile , and if you really think you might want this money in the next few years , then the stock market might not be the best choice . As a final note , as one of the comments mentioned , it makes sense to hold a broad , market-based fund for your IRA as well , if possible .
No , that 's the whole point of the freeze . Your credit is locked and will not be pulled . They may not deny you , it 's up to them . But they will not be able to see your credit report .
Federal Funds Rate The interest rate at which a depository institution lends funds maintained at the Federal Reserve to another depository institution overnight . The federal funds rate is generally only applicable to the most creditworthy institutions when they borrow and lend overnight funds to each other . The federal funds rate is one of the most influential interest rates in the U.S. economy , since it affects monetary and financial conditions , which in turn have a bearing on key aspects of the broad economy including employment , growth and inflation . <URL>
S&amp;P does n't use a fixed schedule . I emailed Standard and Poor 's Rating Desk to ask , however , and they confirmed that : There is no set schedule for the updating of our Sovereign Credit Ratings . Furthermore , these ratings are reviewed at least once every 1-2 years , and the reports are updated whenever a review is completed . They also sent me a PDF with information on how they rate sovereign debt . I believe the actual PDF is only available to users that register ( their website says registration is free ) , but you can find a <URL> on Google . In the section titled " Process For Rating Government Issuers " , it says : For government issuers , Standard &amp; Poor 's rating process is typically initiated when the issuer or its representative requests a rating for a particular debt issue . ... Most sovereign issuers have rating agreements with us , but some sovereign ratings are classified as " unsolicited " because we do not have a rating agreement with the issuer . We continue to rate these sovereigns when we believe there is significant market interest in them and there is also sufficient public information of reliable quality to support our analysis and ongoing surveillance . The portion I emphasize probably explains why ratings were published more frequent during the height of various debt crises ; not only is the market more interested in credit ratings during such periods , but new information relevant to market conditions was continually coming to light in some cases . On their <URL> , S&amp;P states that their ratings for the UK are unsolicited . I asked for clarification on this and they responded that although there are n't any set dates for such reviews , they usually take place " once or twice a year . " Ratings are published once the review is completed , which according to the document linked above , " typically takes four to six weeks to complete , but can run longer or shorter . " Short answer : You can probably expect new ratings to be published about twice a year for the UK because it 's a sizable economy and major issuer of sovereign debt , but apart from that , S&amp;P does n't follow a set schedule .
None of the above . The fair value is a term used to describe an analytical result of projecting the company 's future dividends and profits into a present value . Such estimates are published by the likes of Morningstar , S&amp;P and Value Line . It is quite common for a stock to trade well above or below such estimated fair values .
No , a loss on the sale of a primary residence is not tax deductible ( just as the gains are not taxable , up to a limit ) See here - <URL> Specifically , on page 5 : Loss on sale . If the amount realized is less than the adjusted basis , the difference is a loss . A loss on the sale of your main home can not be deducted .
The curved lines ( on my screen orange , yellow and pink ) are simple moving averages . The fuchsia and blue straight lines are automatically generated trend lines . Those lines are attempting to show how a stock is trending by showing potential bounce points and are commonly used in technical analysis ( TA ) .
Generally , prize money is miscellaneous income , reported on line 21 of your 1040 and not subject to self employment tax . See <URL> for more details ; under ' Prizes and Awards ' , they give an example of winning a photography contest . Now , there are a couple of exceptions . If your main occupation is participating in contests such as this - or you do it sufficiently that it could be considered such - then it may be considered something you should pay self employment taxes on . If it 's your first one - you 're fine . Also , it would have to be something that does n't look like work for me to be confident it 's self employment income . I 'm not sure that winning the Netflix prize for improving on their algorithm by 10 % would n't run the risk of being considered sort of employment . I 'm not a tax advisor , but in that case I would hire one to be sure . I could imagine companies abusing ' prizes ' otherwise to get out of paying employment taxes ...
I 'm assuming this was a cashless exercise because you had income show up on your w-2 . When I had a similar situation , I did the following : If you made $ 50,000 in salary and $ 10,000 in stock options then your W-2 now says $ 60,000 . You 'll record that on your taxes just like it was regular income . You 'll also get a form that talks about your stock sale . But remember , you bought and sold the stock within seconds . Your forms will probably look like this : Bought stock : $ 10,000 Sold stock : $ 10,000 + $ 50 commission Total profit ( loss ) : ( $ 50 ) From the Turbotax/IRS view point , you lost $ 50 on the sale of the stock because you paid the commission , but the buy and sell prices were identical or nearly identical .
From a technical perspective , it 's all to do with how matching ( or crossing ) works . Many exchanges impose a maximum tick frequency just to have an upper limit on the outgoing data . The order book and the matching engine are usually two independent , orthogonal concepts . There 's a working cycle that , at time , takes a state of the order book ( a snapshot if you will ) and all incoming orders ( a snapshot of the order queue ) and feeds them to the matching engine . An order can either result in a cross , in which case something is taken from the book , or when there 's no matching cross side an order can be added to the book . Once this cycle is over , the order book ( and all executions in that time slot ) is disseminated again , and the working cycle can be re-run . Just a thought experiment now : If they did process each order individually ( i.e. start a new round and send the order book afterwards ) then I could create a lot of noise by sending an order and its cancellation , or an order and a self-crossing order at the same time ( it 's called quote stuffing ) . Everyone could see every single state the order book goes through , in particular they will see my order coming in , only that I 'm the only one knowing that this order will be cancelled moments later , and while they decide whether or not to react I can use the time to do something useful , my abusive behaviour has given me a time advantage . The exact configuration of the time windows above depend on many factors and is often not even disclosed to the public . If you need this number because you 're building a trading system and need an upper bound or so , you could check with the exchange 's tech or API department . Edit Just to clarify , I 'm talking about changes in the order book at any level ( not necessarily the top level ) , and since most exchanges for a given price level consolidate all orders ( they only show you the total quantity at that price level ) , they will have to report the new quantity after every round . Also , I 'm using crossing and matching synonymously . Edit Not from personal experience , but have a look at <URL> ( in particular <URL> ) , they demonstrate how the cycle in principle looks , but provide no figures how much time is allocated to each step ( from Matching Engine Gap Fill to Gap Fill )
According to <URL> , this started out as a way to fund health insurance and unemployment insurance , and has gradually increased its scope to cover pensions . At least in part , what you can claim back from these systems is connected to what you paid into them - you ca n't just work one week and then claim 51 weeks of unemployment benefit , or a full pension - which makes them different from taxes . As well , the money collected is not supposed to go into general government revenue , but to be used only for the specific programs it funds . The UK is certainly not the only country where employees and employers send a fraction of each paycheque to the government for purposes other than income tax . Here in Canada we have Employment Insurance and Canada Pension Plan contributions as well as income tax that come off every paycheque . It 's just the way the system works - not everything that the government collects as your income is paid to you is in fact an income tax . There are advantages to all of us to keep these accounts separate - I do n't want my pension money spent on a road by someone who wants to get re-elected 20 years before my pension needs to be paid .
Amounts on line 1 of the K-1 are translated into taxable income to you . Amounts on line 16 of the K-1 with code D are translated into reduction of your cost basis for the shares . If your cost basis is already $ 0 - they are <URL> . You need to track and adjust your cost basis in the shares . When you sell your shares - you 'll pay capital gains tax on the difference between the proceeds and the adjusted basis . When distributions wipe out your basis , further distributions are treated as gains , and taxed at the year distributed . So at the end of 2014 , your adjusted cost basis in these shares is $ 3000 : $ 4000 you paid - $ 1000 you got back ( distribution on line 16 with code D ) .
end question
start question
Credit card changed by card company : Why is Citi changing my Visa dividend platinum select card to dividend world Mastercard ?
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
They claim they can help you build your credit score Able to get one will n't build your credit score but the usage will . The usage of a debit card / credit card / bank card helps building up a profile of yours with the tracking of how you use credit . Considering that citizens who have had a credit record , loose all of it when they are out of UK after a certain period ( not exactly sure how long ) , that is why Britishers who have been living abroad for quite long run into troubles with credit institutions because of non existent records . Did you read this part of their website where they mention how the credit record is built ? Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd ( APS ) lends you a limited fixed amount which goes towards paying for all or part of a year 's use of the account , interest-free . The loan is paid to Advanced Payment Solutions Financial Limited ( AFL ) , so no money changes hands and it 's never available to spend Just repay the loan with 12 small monthly installments and we 'll pass on your payment history to the credit reference agencies Make all your monthly payments on time and you 'll have shown that you can manage credit responsibly Just seems like a way to play around the rules , but not illegal . So primarily they push your score up by showing you have used their credit responsibly . And if your brother works he can get a no frills account from one of the high street banks , which is a more better option .
This is just my opinion , but paying an annual fee for a credit card these days is simply not worth it . Also , if you are just going for the airline miles , I 'd suggest a cash back card is a better choice . Cash is much more fungible between airlines , and they ca n't jack with your rewards by limiting the number of award seats or the number of miles/surcharges for using frequent flier miles on tickets .
The credit card may have advantages in at least two cases : In some instances ( at least in the US ) , a merchant will put a " hold " on a credit card without charging it . This happens a lot at hotels , for example , which use the hold as collateral against damages and incidental charges . On a credit card this temporarily reduces your credit limit but never appears on your bill . I 've never tried to do it on a debit card , but my understanding is that they either reject the debit card for this purpose or they actually make the withdrawal and then issue a refund later . You 'll actually need to account for this in your cash flow on the debit card but not on the credit card . If you get a fraudulent charge on your credit card , it impacts that account until you detect it and go through the fraud resolution process . On a debit card , the fraudulent charge may ripple through the rest of your life . The rent payment that you made by electronic transfer or ( in the US ) by check , for example , is now rejected because your bank account is short by the amount of the fraud even if you did n't use the debit card to pay it . Eventually this will probably get sorted out , but it has potential to create a bigger mess than is necessary . Personally , I never use my debit card . I consider it too risky with no apparent benefit .
If this is a pre-authorized automatic billing , and if you have signed any contract with the merchant , cancelling may not block any future charges from the merchant . Happens with gyms , magazines , memberships quite often . There is a time period after the cancellation this will occur , then it 'll be completely dead .
For the most part , they 're pretty similar . I have never noticed any differences related to MC vs. VISA , most differences are from the banks offering the cards . It does seem that there is a greater acceptance rate for VISA cards internationally . I have also heard that the MC warranty program ( where they extend the manufacturers ' warranty on anything purchased on a MC ) is outstanding . I think VISA has a similar offering though , for their Signature cardholders .
Here in the UK it 's certainly possible . We call it stoozing . The basic steps are Get a credit card with a long 0 % period for purchases and a savings account with as high a rate as possible . Do your regular shopping on the credit card , make minimum payments each month Put the money you would normally spend on your regular shopping into the high rate savings account instead . At the end of the 0 % period either pay the card off in full or get a suitable card and do a balance transfer . Get a new spending card ( may be the same one as the balance transfer card but you often get better deals with seperate cards ) . <URL> I guess people get away with this because the number of people with the skills/diligance to do it right and who can be bothered with the hassle is fairly small .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
Some things that most financial authors acknowledge is that FICO continually upgrades its algorithm for determining your credit score , they are really good at it , and they are continuing to get better . The article mentioned by Chuck says that it was last updated in 4/2013 . Most assuredly FICO has tweaked its algorithm a few times since the article was last updated . From observation it seems that when an author informs the public of a method to game their FICO score , the engineers take steps to prevent inaccurate scores . An example of this is to keep your accounts open after they are paid off . For myself , I found that behavior is not a necessary part of achieving or maintaining a high credit score . The bottom line is that short term fluctuations should not concern you . By paying your bills you will get a good credit score . A credit score does not in and of itself indicate financial success , rather a balance sheet does . My advice would be to do a budget ( seems like you have that done well ) , pay your bills ( ditto ) , and focus on how you can get more into investments ( improve here ) . The credit score will take care of itself .
It is not delayed and if it did n't show yet - will not show on that agency 's credit report . However , you may find it on another agency 's report . There are three major agencies , and creditors do n't always check all of them ( each inquiry costs them money ) .
There is no central government signature database . ( at least not in the US , and at least not yet ) For debit and credit card transactions , the merchant may check the signature on your reciept against the signature on back of the card . This is intended to verify that you did n't steal the card . So , if you want to change the signature on the back of the card , all you need to do is get a new card and re-sign it . Your card has an expiration date . When that happens , you will get a new card to re-sign . If your card expires soon , you can just wait . If you are impatient , you can call your bank and ask for a new card . If they give you a lot of grief about issuing a new card ( it is an unusual request ) , you can tell them you lost your card and need a new one . In that case they will typically disable the old card and issue a new one with a new account number . Note that if you want to change how you sign your name , there are some other places you should also update : All of your other debit and credit cards Your bank should have a " signature card " on file , which they use periodically to check the signature of your checks and endorsed deposits . You should have filled out a signature card when you opened your account . I believe most banks will let you fill out a new signature card , although you will probably have to show multiple forms of ID . ( Had to do this after my wife changed her name when we got married . ) Worst case , you can close your account and move to a new bank . The signature on your driver 's license . When signing a legal document , someone may ask to see your driver 's license to check it against the document . If you start signing your name differently , this may be an issue . So , you may need a new driver 's license issued . Call your local DMV . Also , keep in mind that people 's signatures naturally drift over time . This fact is generally understood and accepted by people who check signatures .
No . Higher credit limit is good for your credit score . It 's a good sign that the credit card company thinks you are low credit risk . Especially if they are not pulling your credit reports , enjoy the higher credit limit . Keep in mind that in general the higher your total credit line , the lower your debt , hence the lower the " utilization " , the better it is for your credit score . See this <URL> and this <URL> .
In the UK the bank owns it for all the reasons you give . But if the bank ever asks for it back you should cut it in two before giving it back , as you can never be 100 % that it IS the bank that is asking for it .
They make you do it ( click the mouse a few times to activate the rewards ) because X percent wo n't do it . Those that do n't click get nothing . If it was automatic people who did n't make an effort would accidentally get a benefit . But If you are aware of which category gets the bonus you might make an effort to boost your reward . Of course that extra usage will cost them more , but it also may help their bottom line because of the additional fees and interest .
Yes you can deposit money into your credit card . When you make a repayment of your credit card bill you are making a deposit into it and it will show up as a credit on your statement . If you get a refund for an item you returned this will also be listed as a credit on your statement .
You should start with a credit card with lower underwriting standards . A gasoline card or department store card is a good example . Make modest purchases and pay them off early or on time in full . I 'm assuming that you 're not leaving out things like late rent payments , judgements , defaulted loans , etc. . Do that for a few months , and sign up for a card marketed towards students . I 'd personally recommend an American Express card with no annual fee .
I do n't know what the official rule is , but I 've found that outside the USA it is a common practice to charge extra on credit card transactions . I 've personally seen credit card surcharges in Europe , Latin America and Japan .
Am I correct in understanding that a Scrip Dividend involves the issue of new shares instead of the purchase of existing shares ? Yes . Instead of paying a cash dividend to shareholders , the company grants existing shareholders new shares at a previously determined price . This allows shareholders who join the program to obtain new shares without incurring transaction costs that would normally occur if they purchased these shares in the market . Does this mean that if I do n't join this program , my existing shares will be diluted every time a Scrip Dividend is paid ? Yes , because the number of shares has increased , so the relative percentage of shares in the company you hold will decrease if you opt-out of the program . The price of the existing shares will adjust so that the value of the company is essentially unchanged ( similar to a stock split ) , but the number of outstanding shares has increased , so the relative weight of your shares declines if you opt out of the program . What is the benefit to the company of issuing Scrip Dividends ? Companies may do this to conserve their cash reserves . Also , by issuing a scrip dividend , corporations could avoid the <URL> that they would normally pre-pay on their distributions . Since the abolition of the ACT in 1999 , preserving cash reserves is the primary reason for a company to issue scrip dividends , as far as I know . Whether or not scrip dividends are actually a beneficial strategy for a company is <URL> ( this looks like a neat study , even though I 've only skimmed it ) . The issue may be beneficial to you , however , because you might receive a tax benefit . You can sell the scrip dividend in the market ; the capital gain from this sale may fall below the <URL> for capital gains , in which case you do n't pay any capital gains tax on that amount . For a cash dividend , however , there is n't a minimum taxable amount , so you would owe <URL> on the entire dividend ( and may therefore pay more taxes on a cash dividend ) .
If I recall correctly , in order to activate it without another human 's intervention I had to call from a phone number they had on file . Otherwise , I believe I would have had to speak to a rep and do it that way . Presumably , that would entail some sort of verification that I was indeed the legitimate owner of the account . Another possibility , which has little to nothing to do with your account security , is management of the number-space . Cards that are not activated in some period of time ( 180 days ? ) can easily be cancelled . Whether this means that they then reuse the number or not , I have no idea . This may be question of reducing their liability , by reducing the number of possible cards that can be used fraudulently , since they ca n't be used until activated . ( Granted , if they still have the sticker on them and there are no safeguards built into the activation process , it would be a trivial matter to activate the card . )
Cash is king . PIN-based debit transactions are cheap . In terms of credit cards , a regular ( ie . not a gold card ) with no rewards has the lowest rates . Bigger merchants with lots of card volume likely have better deals that make the differences less pronounced .
end question
start question
How to compare goverment bonds to generic money market position ?
Bonds might not be simple , but in general there are only a few variables that need to be understood : <URL> . <URL> clearly lay those out , and if you 're talking about <URL> a lot of things ( <URL> ) do n't apply ( although <URL> is still a concern ) . This might be overly simplistic , but I view <URL> 's primarily as an easy way to bring somewhat esoteric instruments ( like grain futures ) into the easily available markets of Nasdaq and the NYSE . That they got " enhanced " with leveraged funds and the such is interesting , but perhaps not the original intent of the instrument . Complicating your situation a bit more is the fee that gets tacked onto the ETF . <URL> . That 's not huge , but it 's not particularly appealing either considering that ( unlike rounding up live cattle futures ) , it 's not that much work to buy US government bonds , so the expense might not seem worth it to someone who 's comfortable purchasing the securities directly . I 'd be interested to see someone else 's view on this , but in general I 'd say that if you know what you want and know how to buy it , the government bond ETF becomes a lot less relevant as the liquidity offered ( including the actual " ease of transacting " ) seem to to be the biggest factors in favor . From <URL> : The bond ETF is an exciting new addition to the bond market , offering an excellent alternative to self-directed investors who , looking for ease of trading and increased price transparency , want to practice indexing or active bond trading . However , bond ETFs are suitable for particular strategies . If , for instance , you are looking to create a specific income stream , bond ETFs may not be for you . Be sure to compare your alternatives before investing .
The link to an article about <URL> Joe Strazzere pointed to answers this question quite clearly . It 's between Buffett ( not Berkshire ) and Protg ( the firm , not its funds ) . And there 's serious money at stake . Each side put up roughly $ 320,000 . The total funds of about $ 640,000 were used to buy a zero-coupon Treasury bond that will be worth $ 1 million at the bet 's conclusion . So , $ 640,000 , not $ 320,000 , in bonds become $ 1M ten years later , a bit over 4 % annual growth . That seems eminently reasonable to me . Each side put up $ 500k effectively and agreed that the whole $ 1M will be given to charity .
I like to put money I am going to spend in my Quicken register ( similar to Money in my limited experience ) and that is the big ticket feature missing from mint.com . Mint.com can only tell you what you did , or in a very general sense what you plan to do . As a register , mint.com is flexible enough for me to categorize my transactions . As a planning / budgeting tool mint.com is very simple and fast to get going , but lacks the depth of a budget I want to manage every week . Mint.com also tracks my investments , but I freely admit my investment management is nothing more than putting money into the same accounts . I bother with investment tracking other than looking to see it is n't zero . I say try mint.com . Mint.com has a place to totally delete your account .
I would disagree with your analysis . To me there are two purposes for a money market ( MM ) : Emergency Fund Pre-purchase money parking fund Your emergency fund should be from 3 to 6 months of expenses . Think of it of an insurance policy against Murphy . You may want to have some money designated for big expenses , or even sinking funds . For example , I keep some money in a MM for a car as both the wife , daughter , and I driver older vehicles . I may need to replace them . If you were planning on making a larger purchase car , house , boat , engagement ring I would put the money in a MM fund so you are not subject to the whims of the market . After that you are free to invest all your money . Its likely that you should have some money outside of tax advantaged funds so if you want to start a business you will not have to do high cost withdrawals .
Sometimes you may want to be in a position long term but are worried about short term volatility and the price going against you in that period . You do n't want to sell and re-buy back later as this may trigger a capital gain . Plus you do n't know the extent of the price drop or when it will start recovering , so an alternative is to hedge against any potential short term weakness in prices but still reap the long term gains without triggering any intermittent capital gains .
If you are n't familiar with <URL> , it 's worth looking at . This is a mechanism using a Canadian brokerage account to simultaneously execute one stock trade in CAD and one in USD . The link I provided claims that it only starts potentially making sense somewhere in the 10,000 + range .
No , you do n't . But you do need to file <URL> to report your foreign accounts if you have $ 10K or more at any given day in all of them combined , when you 're a US resident . You need to file FBAR annually by the end of June ( note : it must be received by FinCEN by the end of June , but nowadays you file it electronically anyway ) .
It depends how much risk you 're prepared to accept . The short-term risk-free rate of return at present is something in the vicinity of 0.1 % ( three month US treasuries are currently yielding 0.08 % ) , so anything paying a higher rate on money that 's accessible quickly will involve some degree of risk -- the higher the rate then the higher the risk .
Yes , only if the sell order quantity available at $ 55 is greater than or equal to the quantity of the market order you entered , and that sell order is not an " All or None " order . If you submitted a market order to buy 100 shares , and there are 30 shares available at $ 55 and 70 shares available at $ 60 , your order will be filled at two different prices , resulting in a weighted average of $ 58.5 to you .
If you are in it for the long run and are not worried about intra day fluctuations and buying within + or - 1 % you would be better off going for a market order as this will make sure you buy it on the day . If you use limit orders you risk missing out on the order if prices gap and start rising in the morning . Another option is to employ stop buy trigger orders ( if offered by your broker ) . So you would have to sum up and decide which type of order would suit your strategy the best . Are you looking to buy the security because you are looking for long term growth and gains , or are you after getting the best price possible to help your short term gains ?
Yes , you will need to deposit the funds into your HSA , then withdraw them to reimburse yourself for the expenses . The tax deduction comes when you contribute ( deposit ) to your HSA . If you do not deposit the money there , you will not be able to claim the deduction . Your HSA provider reports the amount of your contributions to the IRS , so the amount you say you contribute to your HSA on your tax return has to match what your HSA provider reports . When you deposit the money to your HSA , you need to explicitly tell your provider that the contribution is for tax year 2014 . The reason is that you want to make sure that they report the amount of your 2014 contributions to the IRS correctly . After you 've deposited the amount into your HSA , you can withdraw it to reimburse yourself for an eligible medical expense . In order to be eligible , it needs to be an expense that was incurred while you had the HSA in place . If you had your HSA account in place before you paid the expense , no problem . But if you set up the HSA account after you paid for the expense , you might be out of luck . The distribution ( withdrawal ) will be a part of tax year 2015 , and you 'll see this amount included as part of the gross distributions on your 1099-SA form next year . When I first set up my HSA , I did n't have any extra money to fund the HSA , so I handled it just like you are talking about . I would wait until I had a medical bill , then deposit the amount I needed into my HSA and withdraw it back out to pay the bill .
1 . Interest rates What you should know is that the longer the " term " of a bond fund , the more it will be affected by interest rates . So a short-term bond fund will not be subject to large gains or losses due to rate changes , an intermediate-term bond fund will be subject to moderate gains or losses , and a long-term bond fund will be subject to the largest gains or losses . When a book or financial planner says to buy " bonds " with no other qualification , they almost always mean investment-grade intermediate-term bond funds ( or for individual bonds , the equivalent would be a bond ladder averaging an intermediate term ) . If you want technical details , look at the " average duration " or " average maturity " of the bond fund ; as a rough guide , if the duration is 10 , then a 1 % change in interest rates would be a 10 % gain or loss on the fund . Another thing you can do is look at long-term ( 10 years or ideally longer ) performance history on some short , intermediate , and long term bond index funds , and you can see how the long term funds bounced around more . Non-investment-grade bonds ( aka junk bonds or high yield bonds ) are more affected by factors other than interest rates , including some of the same factors ( economic booms or recessions ) that affect stocks . As a result , they are n't as good for diversifying a portfolio that otherwise consists of stocks . ( Having stocks , investment grade bonds , and also a little bit in high-yield bonds can add diversification , though . Just do n't replace your bond allocation with high-yield bonds . ) A variety of " complicated " bonds exist ( convertible bonds are an example ) and these are tough to analyze . There are also " floating rate " bonds ( bank loan funds ) , these have minimal interest rate sensitivity because the rate goes up to offset rate rises . These funds still have credit risks , in the credit crisis some of them lost a lot of money . 2 . Diversification The purpose of diversification is risk control . Your non-bond funds will outperform in many years , but in other years ( say the -37 % S&amp;P 500 drop in 2008 ) they may not . You will not know in advance which year you 'll get . You get risk control in at least a few ways . Rebalancing . When the S&amp;P 500 dropped 37 % , you would move a bunch of bonds into stocks . Then when the S&amp;P 500 went back up , you bought more stocks at a low bargain price , and now you have a lot more stocks . Over time this gives you higher and more predictable returns . Timing . If you for some reason need to withdraw money at time T , then less unpredictable bouncing around in your portfolio makes it more likely that you are n't selling at some horrible low point . A diverse portfolio , in the aggregate , does less bouncing . Also , you would have the option of cashing out the bonds instead of the stocks , if stocks were too low . Then you could wait for stocks to go back up some and sell the stocks later to re-establish your bond percentage . Behavior . If you have 100 % stocks and the market drops 37 % , empirically speaking , many if not most people will freak out and sell the stocks low , which has dire consequences offsetting any extra return you could possibly hope to get from 100 % stocks . Of those who do n't freak out and sell , most will at least freak out and experience substantial mental anguish and distraction . There 's also an academic Modern Portfolio Theory explanation for why you should diversify among risky assets ( aka stocks ) , something like : for a given desired risk/return ratio , it 's better to leverage up a diverse portfolio than to use a non-diverse portfolio , because risk that can be eliminated through diversification is not compensated by increased returns . The theory also goes that you should choose your diversification between risk assets and the risk-free asset according to your risk tolerance ( i.e. select the highest return with tolerable risk ) . See <URL> for excruciating detail . The translation of the MPT stuff to practical steps is typically , put as much in stock index funds as you can tolerate over your time horizon , and put the rest in ( intermediate-term investment-grade ) bond index funds . That 's probably what your planner is asking you to do . My personal view , which is not the standard view , is that you should take as much risk as you need to take , not as much as you think you can tolerate : <URL> But almost everyone else will say to do the 80/20 if you have decades to retirement and feel you can tolerate the risk , so my view that 60/40 is the max desirable allocation to stocks is not mainstream . Your planner 's 80/20 advice is the standard advice . Before doing 100 % stocks I 'd give you at least a couple cautions : I believe 90 % stocks 10 % bonds does better on average historically than 100 % stocks , because of the value of diversification . stocks outperform bonds reliably only over 20-30 year time horizons , if you never panic or screw up or take the money out of the stocks in that entire length of time . 10 years is not long enough . Just look a
In general , things to look for are : How high is is the account 's rate of return ? How easy is it to access your money ? Things to look out for : Minimum monthly amounts to put into checking accounts , or you 'll be dinged with a monthly fee Large expense ratios in " mutual funds " you invest into , or $ 5 + dollar expenses when investing in mutual funds . I 'd recommend two places : Find a high interest HSA savings account . For example , <URL> currently offers 1.5 % to members without direct deposit , 2.5 % to members with $ 500 direct deposit in a checking account . EDIT : SFCU has dropped their rates substantially and is not a recommended bank for this purpose . For longer term investments , consider <URL> which have Vanguard Admiral funds . Realize this is a bit more risky if you 're depositing/withdrawing money often , but it can pay off assuming the stock/bond market has a higher rate of return . This is , however , risky , as many people mention that you should not plan on having " growth " in a mutual fund like this unless you keep and hold money there for 3 or more years . Additionally , the customer service of Fulton Bank is awesome . I 'd recommend reading up on HSA 's in this <URL> .
The <URL> of the <URL> 's 2012 General Income Tax and Benefit Guide explains how to donate money to the federal debt servicing and reduction account . The guide writes : To make a gift to this account , make it payable to the Receiver General , and send it with a note asking that we apply it to this account , to : Place du Portage Phase III , 11 Laurier Street Gatineau , Quebec K1A 0S5 Donations are tax-deductible : they 'll send you a tax receipt .
In a money market fund , one share is worth $ 1 . For your fund , you 'll earn $ 0.0010 a year per share , or 0.10 % . That is all that you will earn . The APY is just another number to represent this interest rate , not a separate income stream . If you were expecting extra money from a separately credited dividend , you were mistaken . ( Usually the APY is a slightly different number than the interest rate , to reflect the way that the interest is compounded over the course of the year . In this case the compounding is too slight to notice with just 2 decimal places . ) If you were investing in a regular savings account , you would see the rate you are paid expressed as an APY also , but not as a dividend ( as no shares are involved ) and use that number to compare the two . If you were buying a bond fund or stock fund that did not have a fixed price , you could calculate the dividend yield based on the current stock price , but you would not probably see an APY listed . Money market funds are kind of an odd hybrid of ' fund ' and ' savings ' , so they list both .
This is in the balance sheet , but the info is not usually that detailed . It is safe to assume that at least some portion of the cash/cash equivalents will be in liquid bonds . You may find more specific details in the company SEC filings ( annual reports etc ) .
One thing I would add to TTT 's answer : One of the benefits of using an LLC for your business is right there in the name - " limited liability " . It provides a level of protection for your personal assets should your business go bankrupt , get sued , and so forth . However , if someone can show that there 's no real separation between your LLC 's activities and your personal activities , then they can <URL> and go after your personal assets . If this loan is really purely personal and not related to your business activities , you may create a paper trail that can later be used in this way . My advice would be to just avoid the whole thing and make the loan from personal funds . I do n't see any upside to doing this out of the LLC funds .
I 'm familiar with the quote . The institution you donate to can keep you anonymous . The person actually benefiting is not aware of your generosity . This is how I understand the biblical meaning . By the way , a number of people who donate , do not take the tax deduction , so as to not benefit . To them I suggest they calculate the refund , and add that to their donations the next year .
As usual on a marketplace - depends on the buyers and sellers . Any country would love its bonds to be denominated in its own currency . However , the bond buyers need to trust the currency the bonds issued in , otherwise they would n't invest . Bond terms vary as well . Some have fixed interest , some variable , some promise inflation adjustments , some do n't . Again - whatever the buyers and the sellers can agree upon . In the US for example , the bonds are denominated in the US dollars , own currency . Some bonds have inflation protection ( as mentioned by JB King ) . However , in Greece , the bonds are denominated in EUR , which is the currency used in Greece , but not controlled by Greece . In Russia , bonds are denominated in EUR or USD , neither is used nor controlled by the Russians . Similarly most of the world uses USD or EUR for international transactions with very rare exceptions . Thus the country 's inflation does n't affect the bond value ( the US/EUR inflation does , though ) .
If this is your money , and if you can - if asked - prove that you legally made it , there is no limit . You pay taxes on your income , so sending it into the world is tax free . Your citizenship is not relevant for that .
end question
start question
Why is OkPay not allowed in the United States ?
The U.S. requires money transfer services to be licensed under 31 USC 5330 in addition to any applicable laws at the state level . According to multiple sources online , including the thread referenced by MD-Tech 's answer , OkPay either can not or will not get a license , so they are out . I dug on this a bit more because I thought it was interesting , and OkPay has other issues with U.S. and other regulators related to its interaction with Bitcoins , which themselves are a hot potato for regulation right now and may explain the licensing problem . It seems to also be facing regulatory pressure in other countries , by the way , so it 's not strictly a problem they face in the U.S. Just for whatever reason , the problem is greater here . Some interesting summary points : With mounting pressure on online money exchanges from US regulators , payments processor OKPay has announced that it is suspending processing for all Bitcoin exchanges , including industry leader Mt. Gox . ... Earlier this month , the US Department of Homeland Security seized Mt. Gox 's account with mobile payment processor Dwolla , on allegations that the account was in violation of US Code 18 USC  1960 by operating an " unlicensed money transmitting business . " Just where the Bitcoin market falls under US law is unclear , because the legality of Bitcoin transactions has yet to be tried in court and law enforcement has refused to comment on ongoing investigations , such as the Dwolla case . <URL> In March , the US Treasury said any firms dealing in the virtual currency would be considered " money services businesses " just like any other , which means they must hand over transaction information to the government and work to prevent money laundering . <URL> In the UK , it apparently has also had trouble with banking partners ( quoting a OkPay official regarding changing bank providers ) : The UK bank that we used before did not make a final decision on whether to handle transactions in favour of crypto-currencies or not . Therefore the compliance department of the bank asked us to restrict such transfers . This apparently allowed them to reverse a policy in the UK : OKPAY 's policy shift comes just months after it stipulated that GBP users check a box , verifying that their funds would not be spent on cryptocurrency , a feature that further incited users . <URL> I had n't heard of this company prior to your question , but having done some research , I tend to think that at least the part of this quote about language , attributed to a user , is true : OKPAY are quite paranoid about AML and another problem is that their support people seem to be very bad at English , so their replies are often hard to understand . Their support are also slow [ sic ] . However in my experience they are an honest company . I found at least one case where rumors that the entire company were going to shut down were traced back to a poorly translated message issued by the company . Again , I know only what I read just now about this company , but it looked like there were a few red flags - the problems with the US probably not being the most important . This type of service is probably part of the future , but I 'm not sure that I 'd send money through it now in its current state or organization and regulation .
As a general premise : In most of the online transactions in case of dispute the benefit of doubt is given to the customer . IE if the customer refuses to pay and claims that its not his transaction , the card company reverses the charges and does not pay the merchant ( or recovers if its already paid ) . There are many types of online vendors who use a variety of methods to ensure that they are not at loss . Some of these are : Ensuring entry of 3-4 digit CVV indicating that if someone used the card , he was in possession of it . However anyone at a POS while swiping the card can make a note of this and misuse the card . Additional address/ZIP code validation . This ensure slightly better protection that for a misuse , the card number , the CVV , the address need to be known . In spite of this online merchants Factoring in the probable loss due to fraud and marking up the price of the product to that extent . Certain merchants like say Netflix is not bothered about any validation as their service involves delivering a movie to the doorstep everyday and they would know the customer much better and can easily track down errant subscribers . Plus the cost of fees is for a month of service recovered in advance . This may hold good for one time occassioanal delivery by say Amazon as the cost of tracking and getting back the goods is high . Even if the subscriber makes away with a DVD on the first go , the loss to Netflix is just the cost of DVD copy though the gain to thief may be the market price of such DVD . Similar is the case with say Norton or other virus service providers , they would simply deactivate the product code ( if paid by card and later refused ) when you go online and the purchase would be of no use . The online industry is also plagued with cases where the transactions are actually made by card owners , who after enjoying the services dispute the claim with the card providers . Certain countries like India have now mandated that all online card transactions be validated by additional password apart from card number and CVV . The password needs to be generated by contacting the merchant bank before online transactions are allowed . Of course there is still a debate if the merchant is outside India , why should he comply with the additional norm . If an card issued outside India is used in India , they may not have additional password issued by their card providers .
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ( SIFMA ) publishes these and other relevant data on their <URL> , in the " Treasury &amp; Agency " section . The <URL> contains annual and monthly data with bins for varying maturities . These data only go back as far as January 2001 ( in most cases ) . SIFMA also publishes <URL> with monthly data for bills , notes , bonds , etc. going back as far as January 1980 . Most of this information comes from the <URL> , so that 's another source of specific information that you could aggregate yourself . Somewhere I have a parser for the historical data ( since the Treasury does n't provide it directly ; it 's only available as daily text files ) . I 'll post it if I can find it . It 's buried somewhere at home , I think .
It is very helpful to understand that Free File is not actually " by " the US Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) . The IRS does indeed offer access to the program through their website , but Free File is actually a public-private partnership program operated and maintained by the <URL> . Who is the Free File Alliance ? Well , according to their <URL> : 1040NOW Corp. , Drake Enterprises , ezTaxReturn.com , FileYourTaxes , Free Tax Returns , H&amp;R Block , Intuit , Jackson Hewitt , Liberty Tax , OnLine Taxes , TaxACT , TaxHawk , and TaxSlayer . Why the income restriction ? Well , that 's part of the deal the IRS struck - <URL> " dedicated to helping 70 percent of American taxpayers prepare and e-file their federal tax returns " . Technically the member companies are offering their own software to handle tax preparation , and the rule is that 70 % of American 's must ' qualify ' for at least one product , so this adjusted gross income limit changes periodically so that 70 % of the population can use it . Why restrict it at all ? This was part of the give and take involved in negotiation with the businesses involved . If the program was " everyone files for free " , then it is presumed that many reputable businesses that make the program valuable would choose not to continue to participate . In other words , they want to be able to not give away their services for free to customers who are - at least by income definition - more than capable of paying them . The IRS has said it does not want to be in the tax prep software business , so they are not offering their own free software to do the job that private companies would otherwise charge for . However , there are other restrictions to being in the program - like the fact that no business in the program can offer " <URL> " , offer commercial services more than a certain amount of times ( so they ca n't hound you to upgrade ) , and so on . Some businesses were making a killing off these , though they are pretty much solely developed to be predatory on people with the lowest incomes ( and education levels , and IQ , and with cognitive disabilities , and basically anyone they could sucker into paying what were effectively absurd rates for short term loans along with inflated filing/preparation fees ) . Finally , Free File was partly developed as an initiative to increase the amount of digitally filed taxes and reduce the paper-based burdens of accepting and processing turns . In other words : to cut government costs , not to be a government welfare program . Even if it were , one can generally obtain commercial software for $ 30 - $ 100 , so the benefit to those above gross income levels is pretty minor ; yearly costs to file taxes with such software for those payers would be less than 0.001 % of their yearly expenses . Compared to the benefits obtainable by households living below the poverty line , fighting to cover an extra 5-30 % of the population at the potential expense of having the whole program be a failure probably seemed like a more than worthwhile trade-off .
You should n't liquidate a strong investment purely because it 's denominated in the same currency . You do n't want to look at the worsening CAD-USD conversion , but the fees charged by the broker . The worsening rate just means that your USD investments are a slightly bigger proportion of your overall assets . And if you expect the CAD-USD to continue the trend , then selling out USD means you are selling an appreciating investment . You should use the assets that you expect to give you the least return in the future , such as uninvested cash ( if any ) . You 're really looking at two questions : ( 1 ) should we pay off the loan now or make regular payments , and ( 2 ) if paying it off , should we liquidate the US index fund to do it ? The analysis for whether to pay it off is how you expect the costs to rise in the future ( conversion rate , loan interest ) versus the opportunity cost of paying it off ( the ROI you could 've gotten with the money if you did n't pay your loan , plus the flexibility and convenience of having the assets in the interim ) . If you decide to pay off now , then deciding which assets to use should turn more on their expected future performance than the conversion rate . If USD is going to continue rising relative to CAD , then do n't sell USD investments .
Let me start by giving you a snippet of a report that will floor you . Beat the market ? Investors lag the market by so much that many call the industry a scam . <URL> This is the 2015 year end data from a report titled Quantitive Analysis of Investor Behavior by a firm , Dalbar . It boggles the mind that the disparity could be this bad . A mix of stocks and bonds over 30 years should average 8.5 % or so . Take out fees , and even 7.5 % would be the result I expect . The average investor return was less than half of this . Jack Bogle , founder of Vanguard , and considered the father of the index fund , was ridiculed . A pamphlet I got from Vanguard decades ago quoted fund managers as saying that " indexing is a path to mediocrity . " Fortunately , I was a numbers guy , read all I could that Jack wrote and got most of that 10.35 % , less .05 , down to .02 % over the years . To answer the question : psychology . People are easily scammed as they want to believe they can beat the market . Or that they 'll somehow find a fund that does it for them . I 'm tempted to say ignorance or some other hint at lack of intelligence , but that would be unfair to the professionals , all of which were scammed by Madoff . Individual funds may not be scams , but investors are partly to blame , buy high , sell low , and you get the results above , I dare say , an investor claiming to use index funds might not fare much better than the 3.66 % 30 year return above , if they follow that path , buying high , selling low . Edit - I am adding this line to be clear - My conclusion , if any , is that the huge disparity can not be attributed to management , a 6.7 % lag from the S&amp;P return to what the average investor sees likely comes from bad trading . To the comments by Dave , we have a manager that consistently beats the market over any 2-3 year period . You have been with him 30 years and are clearly smiling about your relationship and investing decision . Yet , he still has flows in and out . People buy at the top when reading how good he is , and selling right after a 30 % drop even when he actually beat by dropping just 22 % . By getting in and out , he has a set of clients with a 30 year record of 6 % returns , while you have just over 11 % . This paragraph speaks to the behavior of the investor , not managed vs indexed .
I believe the insurance you are talking about is the type of insurance that makes your payment in the event you ca n't pay due to some specific reasons . These types of insurance are profit centers for the credit card companies and are generally not worth it for the consumer . You are better off picking the best credit card that meets your needs and then finding your insurance needs separately . Typically , the best credit card payment insurance plan is to not carry a balance and have a reasonable emergency fund . Putting the money that would have gone to insurance towards those two goals will likely help you more than paying for the credit card insurance policy .
Short answer : Liquidity . Well , you have to see it from an exchange 's point of view . Every contract they put up is a liability to them . You have to allocate resources for the order book , the matching engine , the clearing , etc. . But only if the contract is actually trading they start earning ( the big ) money . Now for every new expiry they engage a long term commitment and it might take years for an option chain to be widely accepted ( and hence before they 're profitable ) . Compare the volumes and open interests of big chains versus the weeklies and you 'll find that weeklies can still be considered illiquid compared to their monthly cousins . Having said that , like many things , this is just a question of demand . If there 's a strong urge to trade July weeklies one day , there will be an option chain . But , personally I think , as long as there are the summer doldrums there will be no rush to ask for Jul and Aug chains .
Insurance provided by companies on a pre-tax basis must follow IRS regulations . Insurance is part of a " cafeteria plan " and they must limit your ability to change the items in the plan except during an annual open season , or after an IRS defined life event . The Affordable Care Act also has the concept of open season , to minimize the ability to wait until a person is sick before enrolling for coverage . There will be a annual open season , and there will be an ability to make changes after a life event . Even without the IRS regulations and the Affordable Care Act law insurance companies would want to minimize your ability to switch coverage levels . If you could add orthodontics coverage after your dentist tells you your child needs braces ; and then drop it after they are put on ; they would never be able to collect enough money to fairly price it . Therefore they limit your ability to make changes to open season/life events .
If I do n't need this money for decades , meaning I can ride out periodical market crashes , why would I invest in bonds instead of funds that track broad stock market indexes ? You would n't . But you can never be 100 % sure that you really wo n't need the money for decades . Also , even if you do n't need it for decades , you can never be 100 % certain that the market will not be way down at the time , decades in the future , when you do need the money . The amount of your portfolio you allocate to bonds ( relative to stocks ) can be seen as a measure of your desire to guard against that uncertainty . I do n't think it 's accurate to say that " the general consensus is that your portfolio should at least be 25 % in bonds " . For a young investor with high risk tolerance , many would recommend less than that . For instance , <URL> from T. Rowe Price suggests no more than 10 % bonds for those in their 20s or 30s . Basically you would put money into bonds rather than stocks to reduce the volatility of your portfolio . If you care only about maximizing return and do n't care about volatility , then you do n't have to invest in bonds . But you probably actually do care about volatility , even if you do n't think you do . You might not care enough to put 25 % in bonds , but you might care enough to put 10 % in bonds .
<URL> It 's 5 days later , and the site shows as above ( i.e. they fixed it after receiving my note ) . For whatever one can say to criticize the tax code , it 's written by congress , not the IRS . When I say " my friends at the IRS " it 's not to be snarky , but a sincere thanks for how responsive and helpful I 've found them in my 35 years of paying taxes . ( And for what it 's worth , this morning I saw an IRS email , telling me they corrected the typo and thanking me for the note . )
In the context of EDV , 4.46 is the indicated dividend rate . The indicated dividend rate is the rate that would be paid per share throughout the next year , assuming dividends stayed the same as prior payment . sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Form 10-K is the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 's ( SEC ) name and mandated filing format for an annual report to shareholders , codifying the <URL> that public companies listed on a U.S. exchange must annually disclose and file with the SEC . In the U.K. , similar concerns governing publicly traded companies fall under the UK <URL> , and the Financial Services Authority ( FSA ) that came before it . The FCA 's handbook has one part on <URL> , specifically <URL> , which mandates publication of annual financial reports . Brief quote : Publication of annual financial reports An issuer [ whose transferable securities are admitted to trading and whose home state is the U.K. ] must make public its annual financial report at the latest four months after the end of each financial year . An issuer must ensure that its annual financial report remains publicly available for at least five years . Content of annual financial reports The annual financial report must include : the audited financial statements ; a management report ; and responsibility statements . [ ... goes on to describe contents in more detail ... ] According to <URL> , such reports must be published using a Regulatory Information Service ( RIS ) ( e.g. , an approved news wire service ) as well as made available to the public , typically on the company web site . Shareholders may opt to receive a hard copy notification that the information has been published .
They 're not negotiating trade rates for you , you set the trade rates in your order . What they might have is a slightly slower system , delivering your orders a second later than the competition would . If that 's critical to you then you should look at that , otherwise look at their fees , customer support and research aids because that 's where the broker value is .
After the initial public offering , the company can raise money by selling more stock ( equity financing ) or selling debt ( e.g. borrowing money ) . If a company 's stock price is high , they can raise money with equity financing on more favorable terms . When companies raise money with equity financing , they create new shares and dilute the existing shareholders , so the number of shares outstanding is not fixed . Companies can also return money to shareholders by buying their own equity , and this is called a <URL> . It 's best for companies to repurchase their shared when their stock price is low , but " <URL> " The management of a company typically likes a rising stock price , so their stock options are more valuable and they can justify bigger pay packages .
It varies per state . In NY I could do 6 or 12 months when I lived there . In NC was the same , at least a few years ago . In KY , to the best of my knowledge , you do a year . There are also variations between states as to whether the car or the driver are required to be insured ( NY is car , NC is driver , for example ) .
Nearly every country has its own exchange because so many countries have their own currency , and currency permeates every part of an exchange 's business . Generally , an exchange will support transaction and settlement only in local currency . Securities ( except those that explicitly enable FX trading ) are denominated and will trade in a single currency -- you can only buy a share of IBM in U.S. dollars . Securities trading always seeks to be a clean , frictionless , scalable process , and adding cross-currency translation to the mix would just complicate things . So it 's one exchange , one currency . In most countries , citizens and even businesses are largely restricted to having bank accounts in local currency . There are various political reasons for this , but there it is : it is difficult or impossible to open a domestic bank account in a foreign-denominated currency . A public company headquartered in a given country will be required to publish financial statements in local currency , will be more likely to do business with the local citizenry and businesses in that currency , and so will likely look for investors from that same pool -- which generally means listing in local currency , which means on an exchange in that country . There are exceptions , of course . Big multinationals do business all over the world , and many seek investors all over the world as well . Mechanisms have been created to permit this ( American Depositary Receipts or ADRs , for example ) . But once again , cross-currency translation makes things more complicated , so ADRs and their like are only practical for very big international players . As to why there may be many exchanges in a single country , IMO Nick R has it right . Read " Flash Boys " ; many market makers profit from trading between exchanges , and so have an interest in there being many of them . And in the U.S. , regulators have expressed an interest in " innovation " in the exchange space , and so permit them . There is also an argument to be made against having a single " Too Big To Fail " exchange just like the argument for banks , but I would n't call that a " reason " for the current state of affairs .
In general , things to look for are : How high is is the account 's rate of return ? How easy is it to access your money ? Things to look out for : Minimum monthly amounts to put into checking accounts , or you 'll be dinged with a monthly fee Large expense ratios in " mutual funds " you invest into , or $ 5 + dollar expenses when investing in mutual funds . I 'd recommend two places : Find a high interest HSA savings account . For example , <URL> currently offers 1.5 % to members without direct deposit , 2.5 % to members with $ 500 direct deposit in a checking account . EDIT : SFCU has dropped their rates substantially and is not a recommended bank for this purpose . For longer term investments , consider <URL> which have Vanguard Admiral funds . Realize this is a bit more risky if you 're depositing/withdrawing money often , but it can pay off assuming the stock/bond market has a higher rate of return . This is , however , risky , as many people mention that you should not plan on having " growth " in a mutual fund like this unless you keep and hold money there for 3 or more years . Additionally , the customer service of Fulton Bank is awesome . I 'd recommend reading up on HSA 's in this <URL> .
When I left the UK four years ago , free banking is still an option and I 'm pretty sure it still is . Therefore , you have chosen to have a bank account with a 5.00 / month charge . In return for this charge , you will be eligible to receive certain benefits . For example ; reduced borrowing costs , discounted mortgage rates , free overdraft on small amounts , " rewards " for paying household bills by direct debit , and things of this sort . Amongst these benefits may be preferential savings rates . However , from HMRC 's point of view it will be the extra perks you are paying for with your monthly charge . You have chosen to pay for the account and HMRC is not interested in how you choose to spend your money , only in the money you earn . While I agree with you that it does have an element of unfairness , the problem is how would you divide the cost amongst the various benefits .
That is a pretty exclusive club and for the most part they are not interested in highly volatile companies like Apple and Google . Sure , IBM is part of the DJIA , but that is about as stalwart as you can get these days . The typical profile for a DJIA stock would be one that pays fairly predictable dividends , has been around since money was invented , and are not going anywhere unless the apocalypse really happens this year . In summary , DJIA is the boring reliable company index .
end question
start question
Is there any way to attach a statement of explanation while submitting a tax return electronically using Free Fillable Forms ?
Depending on what you need to explain , you can submit your electronic return without the supplemental information and subsequently mail a Form 8453 with the additional information . This is helpful for form 8489 , for example , where you need to list every transaction reported by your stock broker on a 1099-B . See <URL> for more details on this form . If the information you need to submit an attachment for does n't follow one of the options on that form , you will likely need to file a paper return or use a paid tax preparation service/application . Limitations of FreeFile are explained here , along with a list of forms that are available : <URL> The " Attaching Statements " and " Write-in information " sections seem like they might apply to your situation . Attaching Statements - If you need to add statements and you ca n't use Form 8453 , U.S. Individual Income Tax Transmittal for an IRS e-file Return , to mail that information , you will not be able to use this program to efile your return Identity Protection PIN 's ( IP PIN ) - This program only supports the entry of a Primary taxpayer 's IP PIN . If the spouse or dependents have an IP PIN , you can not use this program to efile the return . Writing In Information - Your ability to " write in " additional information to explain an entry is generally limited to the 1040 forms and some of the more frequently submitted forms . If you need to write in additional information on a form , other than the 1040 series , you may not be able to use this program to efile your tax return . E-filing Forms - To efile forms , ( except Form 4868 ) they must be attached to a 1040 series form ( 1040 , 1040A or 1040EZ ) . Form Limitations - There may be Known Limitations of forms you plan to complete . Please review them . A form limitation may keep you from completing or e-filing your return .
We use <URL> to handle our household budget - their latest version allows cloud sync between Android/iOS devices and various desktop installs . I have the budget folder shared with my wife 's Dropbox account so we both an view the budget , enter spending , and make changes .
<URL> is a great resource to help you understand what you can and ca n't deduct . It 's not a yes/no question , it depends on the exact company use , other use , and contemporaneous record keeping .
The trick is that any payment you send over the minimum required will be applied to the check balance first , not your main purchases . I guess if you do n't use that card for anything else at all it might work out .
For tax year 2015-2016 onwards , HMRC have a company car tax calculator , so you can calculate how much tax you would have to pay if you took the car : <URL> If you take the money instead , of course it is taxed just as your normal income - so if you are a higher rate tax payer that is 40 % . A : Take the car Calculate : how much you can sell your own car for , how much you save on tax / insurance / fuel ( depending on exactly what package they are offering you , i.e. are they paying for these things or not ) , and deduct the tax payment the HMRC calculator gives you . ( Of course on an ongoing basis you ca n't include the sale price of your own car in these calculations as that is a one-off benefit ) . B : Take the money Calculate : how much your take home pay will increase by ( 60 % of the car allowance payment if you are a higher rate tax payer . You should be able to do a comparison between the two figures obtained this way and see which is better for you . It depends on all sorts of factors including how much you use your car for private use , how long your commute is , etc. .
No state taxes , but Italy also has a favorable treaty with the US Federal Government . Look into to lowering your federal taxes to 5 % ;) its a thick read , <URL> and also try to determine if the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion applies to you , reducing your Federal tax to ZERO on the first $ 95,100 earned abroad . <URL> but then you may be subject to a 20 % + italy tax . so maybe you should just try for the tax treaty
Yes , in fact I used this method for my travels to the UK . You can get one <URL> , and you can even get it on the spot in some of their locations .
Depending on what you need to explain , you can submit your electronic return without the supplemental information and subsequently mail a Form 8453 with the additional information . This is helpful for form 8489 , for example , where you need to list every transaction reported by your stock broker on a 1099-B . See <URL> for more details on this form . If the information you need to submit an attachment for does n't follow one of the options on that form , you will likely need to file a paper return or use a paid tax preparation service/application . Limitations of FreeFile are explained here , along with a list of forms that are available : <URL> The " Attaching Statements " and " Write-in information " sections seem like they might apply to your situation . Attaching Statements - If you need to add statements and you ca n't use Form 8453 , U.S. Individual Income Tax Transmittal for an IRS e-file Return , to mail that information , you will not be able to use this program to efile your return Identity Protection PIN 's ( IP PIN ) - This program only supports the entry of a Primary taxpayer 's IP PIN . If the spouse or dependents have an IP PIN , you can not use this program to efile the return . Writing In Information - Your ability to " write in " additional information to explain an entry is generally limited to the 1040 forms and some of the more frequently submitted forms . If you need to write in additional information on a form , other than the 1040 series , you may not be able to use this program to efile your tax return . E-filing Forms - To efile forms , ( except Form 4868 ) they must be attached to a 1040 series form ( 1040 , 1040A or 1040EZ ) . Form Limitations - There may be Known Limitations of forms you plan to complete . Please review them . A form limitation may keep you from completing or e-filing your return .
Yes you can sell the property while it is being rented . The new owner has to honor the current lease agreements . Expect to provide copies of the leases to the potential buyer so they can review the contracts before committing to the purchase . The current owner is n't obligated to inform the renters that the property is for sale , though being able to show rented units would require notification in advance . The rules for notification may be discussed in the lease documents , or local law . It is not unheard of for the new owners to offer incentives to the current renters to either leave early , or to encourage them to not renew . This is so they can either renovate a building or convert the building to another use . Renters in a month-to-month mode have to understand that they could receive their notice to not extend at any time , with the notice following the rental contract provisions .
Standard deviation from <URL> : In statistics and probability theory , the standard deviation ( represented by the Greek letter sigma ,  ) shows how much variation or dispersion from the average exists . <URL> A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be very close to the mean ( also called expected value ) ; a high standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values . In the case of stock returns , a lower value would indicate less volatility while a higher value would mean more volatility , which could be interpreted as high much change does the stock 's price go through over time . Mean would be interpreted as if all the figures had to be the same , what would they be ? So if a stock returns 10 % each year for 3 years in a row , then 10 % would be the mean or average return . Now , it is worth noting that there are more than a few calculations that may be done to derive a mean . First , there is the straight forward sum and division by the number of elements idea . For example , if the returns by year were 0 % , 10 % , and 20 % then one may take the sum of 30 % and divide by 3 to get a simple mean of 10 % . However , some people would rather look at a Compound Annual Growth Rate which in this case would mean multiplying the returns together so 1 * ( 1 +.1 ) * ( 1 +.2 ) = 1.1 * 1.2 = 1.32 or 32 % since there is some compounding here . Now , instead of dividing a cubic root is taken to get approximately 9.7 % average annual return that is a bit lower yet if you compound it over 3 years it will get up to 32 % as 10 % compounded over 3 years would be 33.1 % as ( 1.1 ) ^ 3 = 1.331 . Sharpe Ratio from <URL> : A ratio developed by Nobel laureate William F. Sharpe to measure risk-adjusted performance . The Sharpe ratio is calculated by subtracting the risk-free rate - such as that of the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond - from the rate of return for a portfolio and dividing the result by the standard deviation of the portfolio returns . Thus , this is a way to think about given the volatility how much better did the portfolio do than the 10 year bond . R-squared , Alpha and Beta : These are all around the idea of " linear regression " modelling . The idea is to take some standard like say the " S &amp; P 500 " in the case of US stocks and see how well does the portfolio follow this and what if one were to use a linear model are the multipliers and addition components to it . R-squared can be thought of it as a measure as to how good is the fit on a scale of 0 to 1 . An S &amp; P 500 index fund may well have an R-squared of 1.00 or 0.99 to the index as it will track it extremely closely while other investments may not follow that well at all . Part of modern portfolio theory would be to have asset classes that move independently of each other and thus would have a lower R-squared so that the movement of the index does n't indicate how an investment will do . Now , as for alpha and beta , do you remember the formula for a line in slope-intercept form , where y is the portfolio 's return and x is the index 's return : y = mx + b In this situation m is beta which is the multiple of the return , and b is the alpha or how much additional return one gets without the multiple . Going back to an index fund example , m will be near 1 and b will be near 0 and there is n't anything being done and so the portfolio 's return computed based on the index 's return is simply y = x . Other mutual funds may try to have a high alpha as this is seen as the risk-free return as there is n't the ups and downs of the market here . Other mutual funds may go for a high beta so that there is volatility for investors to handle .
You 're thinking that by rolling over your Roth 401 ( k ) to Roth IRA the whole amount becomes " contribution " . That is not so , you 're not losing the characteristics of the amounts within the account . The grouping rules of <URL> still apply , and you still need to separate contributions from earnings . See specifically this text in the statute : Any distribution allocated to a qualified rollover contribution under clause ( ii ) ( II ) shall be allocated first to the portion of such contribution required to be included in gross income . So no , you do not get to withdraw earnings tax free just because you rolled them over . As a general rule , when you read the IRS pub 590 - consider your rollover from Roth 401 ( k ) as if it was a roll-over from a different Roth IRA . But do consult a tax professional ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) as there are intricacies . You seem to be confused about various holding period limitations ( " 5-year rules " ) for Roth IRA . There are two : You can not have qualified distributions unless you had the Roth IRA for at least 5 years . You can not withdraw earnings on amounts from conversions without penalty ( additional 10 % ) within the first 5 years of conversion . These are two separate and unrelated limitations . Since you 're talking about Roth 401 ( k ) roll-over - the second one does n't apply , since you did n't do any conversion . The first one does . See <URL> for in-depth discussion on this . In any case , you pay tax ( with or without the additional 10 % penalty ) on distribution attributed to earnings , unless it is qualified distribution .
Yes , you can do everything that Fidelity promises with the cash management account . Your benefits are : Free checks ATM fees reimbursed Free bill pay Free account Relatively easy to set up direct deposit or ACH transfers . Free debit card The downsides ? They do n't have branches everywhere , so if you do need to see a person , you may not be able to do so . Likewise , you wo n't be able to do cash deposits . Before anyone says it 's too good to be true , brokerages like Schwab and Fidelity offer this because the hope is that you 'll end up establishing or using other services they offer , so they do have ways to profit from this . Still , compared to the joke that is many other banks , it 's a good deal provide you 're aware of the two downsides listed above this .
Years ago I hired someone part time ( not virtual however ) to help me with all sorts of things . Yes it helps free up some time . However particularly with finances , it does take a leap of faith . If you have high value accounts that this person will be dealing with you can always get them bonded . Getting an individual with a clean credit history and no criminal background bonded usually costs < $ 600 a year ( depending on $ risk exposure ) . I would start out small with tasks that do not directly put that person in control of your money . In my case I did n't have an official business , I worked a normal 9-5 job , but I owned several rental units , and an interest in a bar . My assistant also had a normal 9-5 job and worked 5-10 hours a week for me on various things . Small stuff at first like managing my calendar , reminding me when bills were due , shipping packages , even calling to set up a hair cut . At some point she moved to contacting tenants , meeting with contractors , showing apartments , etc. . . I paid her a fixed about each week plus expenses . I would pay her extra if I needed her more ( say showing an apartment on a Saturday , or meeting a plumber ) . She would handled all sorts of stuff for me , and I gave her the flexibility when needed to fit things in with her schedule . After about a month I did get her a credit card for expenses . Obviously a virtual assistant would not be able to do some of these things but I think you get the point . Eventually when the trust had been built up I put her on most of my accounts and gave her some fiduciary responsibilities as well . I 'm not sure that this level of trust would be possible to get to with a virtual assistant . However , with a virtual assistant you might be able to avoid one really big danger of hiring an assistant ... You see , several years later when I sold off my apartment buildings I no longer needed an assistant , so I married her . Now one good thing about that is I do n't have to pay her now . ;)
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
The short answer is that it probably does n't matter if you select Visa or MasterCard . Both offer <URL> ( and in Europe , too ) and are widely accepted . The longer answer is that Visa and MasterCard are separate payment networks . While most merchants that accept one will accept both , that is not always the case , and there are some differences , see this <URL> for details .
Six years ago I heard a story on US public radio which resulted in an article , <URL> To summarize , the credit score might not be directly impacted , but the issuing bank does n't like to see lottery tickets , retreading tires , cash advances , hookers/strip joints , booze in large quantity . In my opinion , the data mining has gotten out of control . But the original story really got me thinking .
Are you allowed to have two personal current accounts with a debit card attached to each one ? Yes , you may have as many current accounts you want , but you should ask why should I have more than one . It is cumbersome and time consuming to keep track of ongoing incoming credits and outgoing debits . Open to bank fraud too , if you are n't careful . If yes , can a sole trader in the UK use the second personal account for business transactions ? Yes , but no payments to the business . At the end of the year you file you P11D , even if you have a business bank account . You would need to justify the expenses by keeping the bills and stuff . As it will be a personal account , you have to little more careful , not to mix personal and business expenses . If you are allowed to use a second personal account for business transactions , then why would someone choose to open a business bank account , where you have to pay ? What are the benefits ? First of all no company will pay into you personal account , for any transactions , they need to pay you . They will only pay to an account registered with the business , with whom they are dealing with . Benefits are you have your business expenses sorted out in one account and personal expenses in other . Pure business expenses comes out of the business account , rather than from your personal purse , keeps the accounts smooth . No need to sort out expenses at the end of each quarter or at the end of each month .
To the best of my understanding , the CPA is wrong . You can only deduct the contributions in the year you made them . From the <URL> : There shall be allowed as a deduction any charitable contribution ( as defined in subsection ( c ) ) payment of which is made within the taxable year . A charitable contribution shall be allowable as a deduction only if verified under regulations prescribed by the Secretary . A discussion on the topic on the <URL> : As with all itemized deductions , timing is everything . You can take the deduction for your contribution in the year that you make it . If the amounts are substantial , you can amend the return for that year and claim the additional deduction . If it is indeed the CPA 's omission , I 'd expect him to prepare the amended return for you at no charge .
Stop watching . When I first got a job where I could log in to a website and view accounts , I did so pretty heavily for a few months . Typically there is n't any harm , but there are downsides ; you might be more tempted to trade or act on a rumor . You simply have more opportunity to act on a whim if you are logged in to your account . So stop watching . I have will power issues , so I ca n't have too much junk food in the house , and I learned to quit logging into my brokerage account . ( I still stare at quicken every couple nights . ) Just setup up systems to automatically deposit money and make purchases . Once a year on your birthday , log in and do whatever maintenance you need to do like overbalancing and such . If you really are a buy and hold type investor ( I am , for all the reasons you cited ) then be a buy and hold and stop watching one .
No they do not . From <URL> , a single , non-blind dependent under age 65 must file if the following are true : You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was over $ 1,000 . Your earned income was over $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- $ 1,000 , or Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 . There is no return required for receipt of a gift .
end question
start question
Mileage Deduction as Independent Contractor ?
If you drive from your home to work site you can not deduct the mileage because it is considered a commuting expense . Now if you have an office ( not a home office ) and drive to the office and then on to the client site it would be deductible . Whether you buy or lease a car for the purpose wo n't have any affect on the deduct-ability ( assuming sole prop or single per LLC ) .
No . There are additional credits ( such as itemized or standard deductions and personal exemptions ) against AGI that result in a different " taxable income " . Extra credit ( line numbers confirmed on 2012 forms ) On form 1040 : line 38 is your AGI , line 43 is your taxable income . On form 1040EZ : line 4 is your AGI ; line 6 is your taxable income .
Yes , they are deductible . The treatment is a little weird because of the self-employed nature . Profit Sharing contributions made to employees are deductible at the Employer level and are reported on line 19 of the Schedule C. However , contributions made by the employer on behalf of the self-employed individual are reported on the individual 's 1040 ( line 28 ) , which reduces the individual 's adjusted gross income . Disclosure : I am not a CPA . Consult your CPA or Tax Attorney . Sources : <URL> - Page 8
Yes , for 401k , that is correct . Specifically , if you contribute or your employer contributes ( though in most cases employers only contribute if you contribute so it 's mostly the same as saying if you contribute ) . Yes . But then why are you not contributing more into your 401k ? You just have to make up your mind to do your planned pre-tax contributions for each year all to IRAs or all to 401ks . No . In the case where you are contributing to the 401k ( and are thus covered by an employer retirement plan ) , and I 'm assuming you 're filing as Married Filing Jointly , your AGI would have to be below $ 98k to get a full IRA deduction . I think your $ 184k number is from the case where you 're not covered by an employer plan , but your spouse is , and you 're filing jointly .
From the Joint Committee on Taxation 's <URL> , page 220 : Congress concluded that rules that encourage filing separate returns give rise to unnecessary complexity and place an unwarranted burden on the administration of the tax system . Although this section of the document is not about IRAs , this act altered the IRA contribution rules among other things , and that statement appears to be the general philosophy : the government just does n't like married couples filing separately , and essentially tries to punish them for doing so . Note that the same income limit applies for deductible contributions to Traditional IRAs , if either spouse is covered by an employer-provided plan ( see <URL> ) . <URL> suggests one such incentive for the IRA in particular : " The rationale : the government does n't want to give you a tax break in case your spouse is high-income " . If one spouse is earning a lot -- for instance , over the Roth IRA limit -- and the spouses are living together , the other spouse is presumably reaping some of the benefits of those high earnings , so should not be allowed to benefit from the Roth , which is supposed to be unavailable to high earners . Also , if one spouse had earnings over the Roth IRA limit , they could possibly use financial sleight-of-hand to shift some of the income to the other spouse , thus enabling both to contribute . I do n't see that these reasons really justify the drastic nature of the penalty , but I think that 's about as much logic as we can hope for in the tax code .
I do n't see countries switching to the USD , I see countries moving away from it . The US has the largest peace time debt ever , is not being even close to fiscally responsible ( approving ~ 4 trillion budget ! ) and is faced with 100 trillion in future commitments ( social security , medicare ) with a workforce ( tax base ) that is decreasing as the baby boomers retire . When the US can not meet those obligations ( and most experts agree there is no hope of that anymore ) they will have to print money and devalue the currency .
Yeah , it 's kindof assumed that if you have to go to the client , you 're not staying there forever . You deduct your mileage for the whole trip , including the part where you actually have to leave there and go back .
I read an account of why the U.K. did n't end up with the euro as its currency in David M. Smick 's great book <URL> . Chapter 6 of the book is titled " Nothing Stays the Same : The 1992 Sterling Crisis . " Here 's a very brief excerpt ; emphasis mine : [ ... ] As this story shows , such blindness to the realities of a changing world can be very dangerous . In this case , the result was the brutal collapse of the British pound , which explains why the British people still use their own currency , the pound or sterling , and not the euro . The events that unfolded in the autumn of 1992 were totally unforeseen , yet they reshaped the European monetary world and represent a phenomenon that continues to impact global economies . [ ... ] Smick 's account of the events around 1992 runs about 28 pages . Here 's my version , in a nutshell : At the time , Britain was part of the <URL> , or ERM . The belief in Europe was that by uniting currencies under a common mechanism , Europe could gain influence in international financial policy largely dominated by the United States . The ERM was a precursor to monetary union . The <URL> would eventually create the European Union and the euro . Britain joined the ERM later than other nations , in 1990 , and after some controversy . Being part of the ERM required member nations to agree to expand and contract their currencies only within certain agreed upon limits called <URL> . Due to the way this had been structured , Germany 's strong position placed it at the top of the system . At some point in 1992 , Germany had raised interest rates to curb future inflation . However , Britain wanted Germany to cut rates -- Britain was not in as enviable a position , economically speaking , and its currency was under pressure . The currency band system would put Britain in a tighter spot with Germany raising rates . Enter <URL> , the Hungarian billionaire , a.k.a. " the man who broke the Bank of England . " Soros took a huge short position against the Sterling . He believed the Sterling was overvalued relative to the German deutsche mark , and Britain would be forced to devalue its currency and realign with respect to the ERM . Other traders followed and also sold the Sterling short . With much pressure on the currency , the Bank of England had to buy up Sterling in order to maintain its agreement under the ERM . Of course , they needed to borrow other currencies to do this . Soon the BoE was in over its head defending the Sterling , realizing the exchange rate it needed to maintain under the ERM simply was n't sustainable . Britain was forced to withdraw from the ERM on <URL> , September 16th , 1992 . And so , Britain does not use the euro today -- and any talk of doing so is politically controversial . Therefore I would n't bet on Britain adopting the euro any time soon -- too many of the players are still in politics and remember 1992 well . I think if Britain adopting the euro is ever to happen , it will be when the memory of 1992 has faded away . BTW , George Soros made off with more than US$ 1 billion . Soros is <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> .
Your analysis is not comparing apples to apples which is why it looks like investing money in a non-qualified account is better than a 401k ( traditional or Roth ) . For the non-qual you are using post tax dollars ( money that has already been taxed ) . Now on top of that original tax you are also going to pay capital gains tax for any growth plus dividend rates for any dividends it throws off . For the 401k , let 's assume for the moment that $ 10,000 is invested in a traditional and that the marginal tax rate is always 20 % . And for growth let 's assume 10x . With a traditional your money will grow to $ 100,000 and then the IRS gets $ 20,000 as you pull the money out . The result is a net 80,000 for you . For a Roth 401k , it is taxed first so only $ 8,000 gets invested . This then grows by the same multiplier to $ 80,000 . ( Until you consider changing tax rates the Roth and traditional give the same growth of money ) . Considering the non-qual option , like with the Roth we only have $ 8,000 to invest . However in this case you will not realize the full 10x growth as you will have to pay taxes on $ 72,000 . These are taxes that the 401ks ( and also IRAs ) do not pay . There are other reasons to consider non-qual over maxing out your 401k . Liquidity , quality of investments , and fees being some of those . But the capital gains rate vs. ordinary income rate is not one , as the money in the non-qual still has to go through that ordinary income tax first before it is available to even invest .
From <URL> : Banq ( also Banc , banc-corp , bancorp , or bancorporation ) is an intentionally erroneous spelling of the word bank , but pronounced the same way . It has been adopted by companies which are not banks but wish to appear as such , and satisfy legal restrictions on the usage of the word bank . ... For instance , if the original company is known as Bank of America , then the new investment banking entity may be known as Banc of America Securities LLC . If the original company is known as Bank of Manhattan , then its insurance business might be known as " Banc of Manhattan Insurance " and its holding company might be called " Manhattan Bancorp " . This practice originates from legal necessity : Under the laws of most states , a corporation may only use the word " bank " in its name if it has obtained a banking charter under state or federal banking laws . So , " Banc of America " is the subsidiary of BoA that does n't have appropriate licenses to be called " bank " . Wonders of complex regulation :)
Before filing your first business tax return , you will need to choose a taxation method , either corporation or partnership . If you choose a partnership , then it 's moot - your business income flows through to your personal taxes via form K-1 . Also , regardless of your taxation method , you should consult a legal expert , since having your business pay off your personal debt would almost always be counted as income to you , and may cause you to lose the personal liability protections provided by the LLC ( aka " piercing the corporate veil " ) . Having a single-member LLC with no employees , you have to be very careful how you manage the finances of the business . Any commingling of personal and business could jeopardize your protections .
No , certainly not , with respect to what you wrote about the payroll contributions . You 're misunderstanding calculation and the meaning of the $ 53,600 " maximum amount " , which is but one input to the calculation that limits the pensionable earnings ( salary ) amount before a contribution rate is applied to those pensionable earnings to determine contributions . The employee and the employer each pay a percentage of salary ( 4.95 % ) into CPP , on the amount of pensionable earnings exceeding the basic exemption amount ( $ 3500 , constant ) and not exceeding the year 's maximum pensionable earnings ( $ 53,600 in 2015 , varying each year as it is indexed for average wage growth . ) So , a full-time employee earning $ 100K per year will pay in annual CPP contributions , and their employer the same ( 100 % match ) . The two contributions combined equal what a self-employed individual would pay into CPP for pensionable earnings ( salary , but not dividends ) . The calculation for employees and self-employed individuals is the same -- the principal difference is that somebody who is self-employed must pay both the employee portion ( 4.95 % ) and the employer portion ( also 4.95 % ) of the CPP contributions , for a total 9.9 % on their pensionable earnings exceeding $ 3,500 but not exceeding $ 53,600 . After all , somebody who works for their own company is both the employee and employer . Service Canada makes it very clear <URL> . Quoting : If you have an employer , you pay half the required contributions and your employer pays the other half . If you are self-employed , you make the whole contribution . The retirement pension benefit calculation is also identical . Years of self-employment pensionable earnings are not worth any more or any less than years of regular pensionable earnings from employment . Here 's a great article on estimating your CPP benefits : <URL> . The author of that article worked for Service Canada and is a CPP expert . Finally , the real ( and only ) advantage that self-employed individuals that work through their own corporation have with respect to CPP is that they can elect , in any given year , to take more compensation as dividend income instead of as salary . Dividends are n't subject to CPP contributions , and so less can be paid into CPP than someone who ca n't structure their compensation that way . Yet , since the CPP retirement pension calculation drops some low earnings years from the earnings history , a self-employed individual who takes lower salaries from time to time ( and pays less into CPP in those years ) could still end up with an unreduced pension -- provided they plan accordingly .
You have to be the owner of record before the ex-dividend date , which is not the same day as the date the dividend is paid . This also implies that if you sell on or after the ex-dividend date , you 'll still get the dividend , even if you no longer own the stock . Keep in mind , also , that the quoted price of the stock ( and on any open orders that are not specifically marked as " do not reduce " ) on its ex-dividend date is dropped by the amount of the dividend , first thing in the morning before trading starts . If you happen to be the first order of the day , before market forces cause the price to move , you 'll end up with zero gain , since the dividend is built into the price , and you got the same value out of it -- the dividend in cash , and the remaining value in stock . As pointed out in the comments ( Thanks @Brick ) , you 'll still get a market price for your trade , but the price reduction will have had some impact on the first trade of the day . Source : <URL> Also , remember that the dividend yield is expressed in annualized terms . So a 3 % yield can only be fully realized by receiving all of the dividend payments made by the company for the year . You can , of course , forget about individual companies and just look for dividends to create your own effective yield over time . But , see the final point ... Finally , if you keep buying and selling just to play games with the dividends , you 're going to pay far more in transaction fees than you will earn in dividends . And , depending on your individual circumstances , you may end up paying more in capital gains taxes .
Only cash and goods are considered charitable donations . A gift of services ( in this case free rent ) does not apply . She might qualify as a <URL> though . However since she you wrote " almost all of 2010 " I suspect she may go over the ~ $ 3k income limit .
" I have money to invest . Where should I put it ? " Anyone who answers with " Give it to me , I 'll invest it for you , do n't worry . " needs to be avoided . If your financial advisor gives you this line or equivalent , fire him/her and find another . Before you think about where you should put your money , learn about investing . Take courses , read books , consume blogs and videos on investing in stocks , businesses , real estate , and precious metals . Learn what the risks and rewards are for each , and make an informed decision based on what you learned . Find differing opinions on each type of investment and come to your own conclusions for each . I for example , do not understand stocks , and so do not seriously work the stock market . Mutual funds make money for the folks selling them whether or not the price goes up or down . You assume all the risk while the mutual fund advisor gets the reward . If you find a mutual fund advisor who can not recommend the purchase of a product he does n't sell , he 's not an advisor , he 's a salesman . Investing in business requires you either to intimately understand businesses and how to fund them , or to hire someone who can make an objective evaluation for you . Again this requires training . I have no such training , and avoid investing in businesses . Investing in real estate also requires you to know what to look for in a property that produces cash flow or capital gains . I took a course , read some books , gained experience and have a knowledgeable team at my disposal so my wins are greater than my losses . Do not be fooled by people telling you that higher risk means higher reward . Risks that you understand and have a detailed plan to mitigate are not risks . It is possible to have higher reward without increasing risk . Again , do your own research . The richest people in the world do not own mutual funds or IRAs or RRSPs or TFSAs , they do their own research and invest in the things I mentioned above .
The IRS is n't going to care how you filed for benefits - they 're effectively the high man on the totem pole . The agency that administers the SNAP program is the one who might care . File the 1040 correctly , and then deal with SNAP as you note . Do deal with SNAP , though ; otherwise they might be in trouble if SNAP notices the discrepancy in an audit of their paperwork . Further , SNAP does n't necessarily care here either . SNAP defines a household as the people who live together in a house and share expenses ; a separated couple who neither shared expenses nor lived together would not be treated as a single household , and thus one or both would separately qualify . See <URL> or <URL> for more details ; and ask the state program administrator . It may well be that this has no impact for him/her . The details are complicated though , particularly when it comes to joint assets ( which may still be joint even if they 're otherwise separated ) , so look it over in detail , and talk to the agency to attempt to correct any issues . Note that depending on the exact circumstances , your friend might have another option other than Married Filing Jointly . If the following are true : You file a separate return . A separate return includes a return claiming married filing separately , single , or head of household filing status . You paid more than half the cost of keeping up your home for the tax year . Your spouse did n't live in your home during the last 6 months of the tax year . Your spouse is considered to live in your home even if he or she is temporarily absent due to special circumstances . See Temporary absences , under Qualifying Person , later . Your home was the main home of your child , stepchild , or foster child for more than half the year . ( See Home of qualifying person , under Qualifying Person , later , for rules applying to a child 's birth , death , or temporary absence during the year . ) You must be able to claim an exemption for the child . However , you meet this test if you can not claim the exemption only because the noncustodial parent can claim the child using the rules described in Children of divorced or separated parents ( or parents who live apart ) under Qualifying Child in chapter 3 , or referred to in Support Test for Children of Divorced or Separated Parents ( or Parents Who Live Apart ) under Qualifying Relative in chapter 3 . The general rules for claiming an exemption for a dependent are explained under Exemptions for Dependents in chapter 3 . Then she may file as " Head of Household " , and her ( soon-to-be ) ex would file as " Married Filing Separately " , unless s/he also has dependents which would separately allow filing as Head of Household . See the IRS document on <URL> for more details , and consider consulting a tax advisor , particularly if she qualifies to consult one for free due to lower income .
I suspect @SpehroPefhany is correct and that your bank will cash a check from the US Department of the Treasury . Especially since they 're the same ones who guarantee the U.S. Dollar . They may hold the funds until the check clears , but I think you 'll have good luck going through your bank . Of course , fees and exchange rate are a factor . Consider browsing the IRS and US Treasury Department websites for suggestions/FAQs . I suggest you line up a way to cash it , and make sure there 's enough left after fees and exchange rate and postage to get the check that the whole process is worth it , all before you ask it to be shipped to you . If there 's no way to do it through your bank , through a money exchange business ( those at the airport come to mind ) or through your government ( postal bank ? ) , and the check is enough that you 're willing to go through some trouble , then you should look into assigning power of attorney for this purpose . I do n't know if it is possible , but it might be worth looking into . Look for US based banks in your area .
I would n't think so . It has no positive value . It is in fact a liability . You owe a specific amount of money per month as a payment for the lease . You could owe additional charges at the end of the lease for excess miles or above average wear . If you need to get out of the lease there could be a penalty . At the end of the lease period you have nothing , except an option to buy the car . Which may or may not be a good deal depending on the exact terms of the lease contract . It does need to appear in your budgeting , and insurance is needed to prevent the liability from blowing up in your face if something happens to the car . You might also need insurance to make sure you can make the payments if you are unemployed or disabled . Though those risks are similar to a loan .
You 're a partnership . You should ask the money to be paid to the partnership . You 'll have to fill partnership income tax return ( form 1065 ) and each of you will get a K-1 schedule with your own personal portion of the income . For example , you 're Adam , Ben and Clara . You work together on a project and are being paid . You get a check for $ 300 issued to " Adam , Ben and Clara , DBA ABC Partnership " . You do n't have to have a DBA , it just makes it easier to show you as a single entity . You then deposit the check to an account you set up for your partnership , and from that account you transfer $ 100 to each of you . Year end , you file form 1065 , showing $ 300 income , and attach K-1 for each of the partners showing $ 100 income . That $ 100 income will flow to your individual tax returns . The overhead here is setting up a partnership account , potentially making a DBA , and filing the extra tax return . That 's the proper way to do it , especially if it is something you 're going to do regularly . For a one-time thing , one of you can get paid , report it as income on his/her Schedule C , and issue 1099 to the rest of you for your parts , and deduct the amount as his/her expense . Here , the overhead is Schedule C for each of you ( instead of Schedule E if handling it as a partnership ) , extra 1099 forms ( instead of 1065 and K-1s ) , and a risk of one partner defrauding the others ( depends on how much you trust each other ) . With proper documentation , each of these is equally legal , and tax-wise the costs are the same ( i.e. : either way you pay the same taxes ) . With partnership the overhead is a bit more expensive ( DBA +1065 extra cost ) , but in the long term it will make your life easier if you do this kind of thing regularly . You may want to consider setting up your partnership as a LLC/LLP ( depending on what your State allows ) , but that would require State paperwork and potentially more fees .
No . Even if you were married , she ( and you , jointly ) still could not claim anything above $ 2500 for the two of you combined ( even if she separately had interest ) - the deduction is $ 2500 max regardless of married or single . See <URL> for more details . If you were her dependent ( and she claimed you as such ) , she could claim the deduction but not you ; but that 's only if you were her dependent ( and again , the max in total would still be $ 2500 ) . Further , the details include that the loan must have been taken out in your name , and the student must be you , your spouse ( not fiance , sorry ) or dependent . As such , only one person ( or one married couple ) is ever eligible to deduct student loan interest from a particular loan .
end question
start question
What are the risks in buying a property from a " Tax Deed " auction ?
You should read into the local and Federal laws that concern these kinds of sales . Potential pitfalls that I know of ( there are probably much more ) : In many states , these " auctions " are rather random , and you ca n't chose the property you buy . Owners may repay the taxes , in which cases ( depending on the local laws ) you may have to give up the property back to the owner . You 'll have to foreclose on the property to get full ownership on it . There may be time limitations as to what and when you can do ( for example , I know that in some states you have to wait for a certain period of time before you 're allowed to foreclose , several years ) . Auctions in general mean : Many times you can not inspect the property prior to purchase . You have to pay very quickly ( and to decide very quickly ) . You will probably have to invest significantly in rehab and repairs before reselling . You might not get a title insurance
" Leverage " is when you borrow in order to invest . Mind you , most people are n't going to just give you money to gamble on the stock market completely unsecured ; rather , you deposit ( say ) $ 10,000 and buy a stock ... and then you have $ 10k in assets which you can borrow against , so you can buy another $ 10,000 of that stock . Now if the stock goes up you 'll make twice the gain ( 2x leverage ) . However , if it goes down , you 'll lose twice as much as well . If the value of your stock falls , your line of credit will be reduced as well ; in this case , since you used all your credit and are now over your limit , your broker will issue a margin call ( they will demand a deposit of additional funds , or they will sell some of your stock at their discretion ) . This protects you from owing more than you invested , but it 's still sometimes possible ( for instance , if a company spontaneously goes bankrupt and becomes worthless , and your stock becomes worthless ) . There are also things like leveraged index funds and commodity funds which aim to return some multiple of the market 's earnings . These are designed for intraday trading , though , and usually end up underperforming significantly over the long term . [ edit ] Mose people who accept borrowed funds should generally accept real cash as well . However , if you 're trying to short sell , i.e. borrow shares and sell them ( in the hopes you can get them back cheaper later after the stock falls ) you will need a margin line of credit to do so as well . [ edit 2 ] clarified margin calls
To start , I hope you are aware that the properties ' basis gets stepped up to market value on inheritance . The new basis is the start for the depreciation that must be applied each year after being placed in service as rental units . This is not optional . Upon selling the units , depreciation is recaptured whether it 's taken each year or not . There is no rule of thumb for such matters . Some owners would simply collect the rent , keep a reserve for expenses or empty units , and pocket the difference . Others would refinance to take cash out and leverage to buy more property . The banker is not your friend , by the way . He is a salesman looking to get his cut . The market has had a good recent run , doubling from its lows . Right now , I 'm not rushing to prepay my 3.5 % mortgage sooner than it 's due , nor am I looking to pull out $ 500K to throw into the market . Your proposal may very well work if the market sees a return higher than the mortgage rate . On the flip side I 'm compelled to ask - if the market drops 40 % right after you buy in , will you lose sleep ? And a fellow poster ( @littleadv ) is whispering to me - ask a pro if the tax on a rental mortgage is still deductible when used for other purposes , e.g. a stock purchase unrelated to the properties . Last , there are those who suggest that if you want to keep investing in real estate , leverage is fine as long as the numbers work . From the scenario you described , you plan to leverage into an already pretty high ( in terms of PE10 ) and simply magnifying your risk .
Pro : - Faces less redemption pressure and hence the Fund Manager can focus more on long term gains rather than immediate gains . - Works well in emerging markets . - Less churn out in case the market falls sharply , there by making more money in long run . Cons : - No additional money to invest/take advantage of market situation . - Less liquid for investor as he is locked in for a period .
A good explanation from the Wikipedia article on <URL> : Points , sometimes also called a " discount point " , are a form of pre-paid interest . One point > equals one percent of the loan amount . By charging a borrower points , a lender effectively > increases the yield on the loan above the amount of the stated interest rate . Borrowers can > offer to pay a lender points as a method to reduce the interest rate on the loan , thus > obtaining a lower monthly payment in exchange for this up-front payment . For each point > purchased , the loan rate is typically reduced by 1/8 % ( 0.125 ) . To know whether or not paying points for a mortgage is a good idea for you , you can use one of many online calculators . I like the <URL> ( see calculators 10-11 ) . There 's a payback period associated with this prepayment -- if you sell or refinance your mortgage before the payback period , you lose money on the investment of points . If you keep your mortgage past the payback period , you save money from the lower interest rate .
If all the property is going up and down at the same rate , it 's probably a bit of a wash . However , there are markets ( e.g. the Front Range of Colorado , where I live ) , where property at different price levels and locations has performed very differently . For a place to live , I think it 's most useful to look at housing as a consumption decision , like buying a car , rather than an investment decision , like buying art ( since it is similarly illiquid ) . Consider what you need and want ( features , location ) , how important the " own vs rent " tradeoffs are to you ( including the risk of losing your equity ) , and what you can comfortably afford . Then do n't worry so much about price trends . This , it seems to me , is the lesson of the recent housing bust .
No , a loss on the sale of a primary residence is not tax deductible ( just as the gains are not taxable , up to a limit ) See here - <URL> Specifically , on page 5 : Loss on sale . If the amount realized is less than the adjusted basis , the difference is a loss . A loss on the sale of your main home can not be deducted .
Not all call options that have value at expiration , exercise by purchasing the security ( or attempting to , with funds in your account ) . On ETNs , they often ( always ? ) settle in cash . As an example of an option I 'm currently looking at , AVSPY , it settles in cash ( please confirm by reading the documentation on this set of options at <URL> , but it is an example of this ) . There 's nothing it can settle into ( as you ca n't purchase the AVSPY index , only options on it ) . You may quickly look ( wikipedia ) at the difference between " American Style " options and " European Style " options , for more understanding here . Interestingly I just spoke to my broker about this subject for a trade execution . Before I go into that , let me also quickly refer to Joe 's answer : what you buy , you can sell . That 's one of the jobs of a market maker , to provide liquidity in a market . So , when you buy a stock , you can sell it . When you buy an option , you can sell it . That 's at any time before expiration ( although how close you do it before the closing bell on expiration Friday/Saturday is your discretion ) . When a market maker lists an option price , they list a bid and an ask . If you are willing to sell at the bid price , they need to purchase it ( generally speaking ) . That 's why they put a spread between the bid and ask price , but that 's another topic not related to your question -- just note the point of them buying at the bid price , and selling at the ask price -- that 's what they 're saying they 'll do . Now , one major difference with options vs. stocks is that options are contracts . So , therefore , we can note just as easily that YOU can sell the option on something ( particularly if you own either the underlying , or an option deeper in the money ) . If you own the underlying instrument/stock , and you sell a CALL option on it , this is a strategy typically referred to as a covered call , considered a " risk reduction " strategy . You forfeit ( potential ) gains on the upside , for money you receive in selling the option . The point of this discussion is , is simply : what one buys one can sell ; what one sells one can buy -- that 's how a " market " is supposed to work . And also , not to think that making money in options is buying first , then selling . It may be selling , and either buying back or ideally that option expiring worthless . -- Now , a final example . Let 's say you buy a deep in the money call on a stock trading at $ 150 , and you own the $ 100 calls . At expiration , these have a value of $ 50 . But let 's say , you do n't have any money in your account , to take ownership of the underlying security ( you have to come up with the additional $ 100 per share you are missing ) . In that case , need to call your broker and see how they handle it , and it will depend on the type of account you have ( e.g. margin or not , IRA , etc ) . Generally speaking though , the " margin department " makes these decisions , and they look through folks that have options on things that have value , and are expiring , and whether they have the funds in their account to absorb the security they are going to need to own . Exchange-wise , options that have value at expiration , are exercised . But what if the person who has the option , does n't have the funds to own the whole stock ? Well , ideally on Monday they 'll buy all the shares with the options you have at the current price , and immediately liquidate the amount you ca n't afford to own , but they do n't have to . I 'm mentioning this detail so that it helps you see what 's going or needs to go on with exchanges and brokerages and individuals , so you have a broader picture .
For an individual there will not be much impact immediately . This arrangement will help Corporates and Banks settle payments more easily . - It would typically help companies dealing with Yuan [ Buying or selling to China or Countries that accept Yuan as payment ] to make payments at a cheaper cost &amp; in less time . - In the near future it would make it easier for companies to invest more into China financial markets - It would also open up / create new market for derivatives and other allied products - It would also make Singapore a market place for Yuan outside China [ and Hong Kong ] resulting in more money and related product . In a related move this would make it easy for Singapore Central Bank to invest in China . Once the markets matures more , there could be some products for Individuals .
This depends on how your agreement with the US Company is structured . Consult a professional CA who will guide you . As you have stated , the entire amount of $ 1000 would be treated as income , for certain professions and type of activities , you can claim the tax paid in US and only pay additional in India , ie if you have paid 25 % in US and are liable for 30 % in India you just pay 5 % more .
Many branches of maths study the market , your question would need a lenghty answer . The mathematical problem with the behaviour of the stock markets is that their movements react to human emotions . Fear and greed as you probably knows . So you need to find a mathematical branch specialised on irregular and chaotic behaviour . There are practical researchs being done nowadays in financial institutions with program trading , you can check it out searching the web . The objective is always to make money , that is greed disguised . I would suggest you start by reading this article on <URL> .
They are taxed , but you are allowed to deduct cost . So you only profit if you sell them for more than you paid . If you are truly worried about taxes , you might be better off donating them to Goodwill and writing off the donation
How I recognize a silver bubble : It seems like everyone is talking about their latest silver investment . This is similar to tech stocks in the '90s and real estate in the ' 00s . Your plumber is talking about how he is making a fortune in silver . Your brother-in-law is talking about how is making a fortune in silver . New investment products are being announced almost daily offering different ways to invest in silver - indexes , etf 's , mining companies , securitization products , etc. . Many investors talk about how you ca n't go wrong with silver . It 's a " no-brainer " . I do n't think silver is in a bubble . You state : What goes up , must come down I 'm not sure I agree with this . Yes , prices fluctuate . But most prices generally go up over time due to inflation - somethings more than others . Was coffee in a bubble in early 2005 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this : Was gold in a bubble in Argentina in 2001 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this ( sorry for the mismatching chart scales ) : Was gold in a bubble in Weimar in 1922 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this : Maybe US farmland is in a bubble since prices are rising rather dramatically . I do n't think it is in a bubble since I rarely hear anyone talking about investing in farmland :
A lot of Americans have used Swiss bank accounts to avoid paying taxes . However recently several large Swiss banks have started disclosing the details on some of their customers to the IRS . There is n't much security in Swiss banking at this point in time .
Cart 's answer is basically correct , but I 'd like to elaborate : A futures contract obligates both the buyer of a contract and the seller of a contract to conduct the underlying transaction ( settle ) at the agreed-upon future date and price written into the contract . Aside from settlement , the only other way either party can get out of the transaction is to initiate a closing transaction , which means : The party that sold the contract buys back another similar contract to close his position . The party that bought the contract can sell the contract on to somebody else . Whereas , an option contract provides the buyer of the option with the choice of completing the transaction . Because it 's a choice , the buyer can choose to walk away from the transaction if the option exercise price is not attractive relative to the underlying stock price at the date written into the contract . When an option buyer walks away , the option is said to have expired . However -- and this is the part I think needs elaboration -- the original seller ( writer ) of the option contract does n't have a choice . If a buyer chooses to exercise the option contract the seller wrote , the seller is obligated to conduct the transaction . In such a case , the seller 's option contract is said to have been assigned . Only if the buyer chooses not to exercise does the seller 's obligation go away . Before the option expires , the option seller can close their position by initiating a closing transaction . But , the seller ca n't simply walk away like the option buyer can .
It 's not a reason to buy a home , but it is a nice plum that in effect subsidizes your loan in the early years when you pay alot of interest . EDIT : Depending on the market that you 're in , things like mortgage interest , taxes and insurance are already priced into your rent . Renting lets you avoid the downside risks associated with owning property -- but you also lose the potential upside . The buy/rent decision is based on the following : Your life . ( When you 're 23 , a house means you 're " tied down " . When you 're 33 , it 's " stability " ) Your income/financial condition . The market ( for both rentals and purchases ) The market is a huge factor here . I live in a small city ( Albany , NY ) with a very tight rental market . Renting a 2 bedroom apartment costs like $ 1,300-1 ,600 and is difficult to find . But a nice 3-bedroom house in a great neighborhood goes for $ 150-170k in the city and $ 180-200k in the burbs . Obviously if you live in the Bay Area , where an empty lot in the hood goes for $ 750k , ymmv .
Yes , the penalty is the tax you pay on it again when you withdraw the money . The withdrawal of the excess contribution is taxed as your wages ( but no penalty ) . Excess contribution can not be added to the basis or considered " after-tax " ( hence the double taxation ) . Note that allowing you to keep the excess contribution in the plan may lead to disqualifying the plan , so it is likely that the plan administrator will force you to remove the excess contribution if they become aware of it . Otherwise you may end up forcing early 401 ( k ) withdrawal on all of your co-workers . More on <URL> . And <URL> .
<URL> covers this . Rollovers to Roth IRAs . You can roll over distributions directly from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) to a Roth IRA . You must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) that you would have had to include in income if you had not rolled them over into a Roth IRA . However , special rules apply for any amounts rolled over in 2010 . See How to treat 2010 Roth IRA rollovers , later . You do not include in gross income any part of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is a return of contributions to the plan that were taxable to you when paid . In addition , the 10 % tax on early distributions does not apply . Any amount rolled over into a Roth IRA is subject to the same rules for converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA . For more information , see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1 of Publication 590 . How to report . Enter the total amount of the distribution before income tax or deductions were withheld on Form 1040 , line 16a ; Form 1040A , line 12a ; or Form 1040NR , line 17a . This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R . From this amount , subtract any contributions ( usually shown in box 5 of Form 1099-R ) that were taxable to you when made . Enter the remaining amount , even if zero , on Form 1040 , line 16b ; Form 1040A , line 12b ; or Form 1040NR , line 17b . The 1099R should come from the organization that had the original 401K , only they would know what would go in each box on the form 1099-R .
You can find a lot of information at the HRMC website at <URL> . If you do n't want to work as an employee , you can register as self-employed ( basically a one-man band ) , which is quite simple , you can start your own company , which is more work but can have tax advantages , or you can find umbrella companies which will officially employ you while in reality you are a freelancer and only do your billing through them . Umbrella companies can be anywhere from totally legal to extremely dodgy . If they promise you that you pay only five percent tax on your income through ingenious tricks , that 's only until the tax office finds out and they will make you pay . Between self-employed and your own company , the big difference is whether you are actually working independently or not . If you work like an employee ( take someone else 's orders ) and claim you are a company , the tax office does n't like that . And if you pay very little taxes , they do n't like that either . So self-employed is the safer choice but you will pay more taxes , close to what a normal employee would pay . Obviously you will have to pay tax on your income and NHS insurance . Obviously you are required to tell the government ( actually HMRC ) about your income . Not doing so would be tax evasion and get you into deep trouble when you are caught . I do n't think you have to tell them the source of your income , but not telling them might look very suspicious and might get your accounts checked carefully . And unless you design a website for the mafia , why would n't you tell them ? The bill payer will try to deduct your bill from their profits anyway , so it 's no secret . Most important to remember : When you send out a bill and receive payment , you 'll have to pay tax on it . When self employed , as a rule of thumb put one third away into a savings account for your tax bill . Do n't spend it all or you will find yourself in deep trouble when your taxes need paying . Plus put some more away for times when you ca n't find work .
What are the available infrastructure bonds The available bonds keep changing . This ca n't be answered as its a product recommendation . Ask your broker or Bank or watch the newspapers , you will know what is currently available . At times there maybe no bond available . and can one withdraw that amount at any moment or some lock-in period is there ? Yes generally a lock-in period of 3 years . How capital gain account is different from savings account ? A capital gains account is a Bank Account . The deposit in this only allowed upon submitting the documents verifying that the money is due to capital gains . Withdrawal is only permitted to buy another property , else tax has to be paid at withdrawal . Talk to your banker and he should be able to explain more details .
end question
start question
Does non-taxable income apply before or after ( not at all ) taxable income for purposes of tax brackets ?
Roth distributions will not count against your income , since contributions have already been taxed , and earnings are not taxable . If you have $ 1,000,000 in your Roth , you can withdraw it all as a lump sum , tax-free ( assuming penalty-free withdrawal ) . Traditional 401K/IRA distributions count as income . You asked what bracket these distributions are " applied against " , but this is not really the way the tax system works . Your distribution income gets combined with your other forms of income , minus credits , deductions , etc. to come up with your Taxable Income , which is used to determine how much tax you pay . That 's a highly simplified explanation -- I think a full discussion of the federal tax system might be too much for this question , but reading up on <URL> should help . The question of the benefits of Roth vs. Traditional is also a very complex question/calculation , and involves a slew of inputs , many of which are purely speculative ( e.g. expected federal tax rate in 30 years ) .
You would put your earnings ( and expenses , do n't forget ) on Schedule C , and then do a Schedule SE for self-employment tax . <URL> 1040ES is n't used to compute taxes , it 's used to pay taxes . Generally you are supposed to pay taxes as you go , rather than when you file . There are exceptions where you wo n't be penalized for paying when you file , " most taxpayers will avoid this penalty if they owe less than $ 1,000 in tax after subtracting their withholdings and credits , or if they paid at least 90 % of the tax for the current year , or 100 % of the tax shown on the return for the prior year , whichever is smaller " from <URL> i.e. there 's a safe harbor as long as you pay as much as you owed the year before . If you owe a lot at the end of the year a second time in a row , then you get penalized .
The uptick rule is gone , but it was weakly reintroduced <URL> , applied to all publicly traded equities : Under the terms of the rule , a circuit breaker would be triggered if a stock falls by 10 % or more in a single day . At that point , short selling would only be allowed if the price is above the current national best bid , a restriction that would apply for the rest of the day and the whole of the following day . Derivatives are not yet restricted in such ways because of their spontaneous nature , requiring a short to increase supply ; however , this latest rule widens options spreads during collapses because the exemption for hedging is now gone , and what 's more a tool used by options market makers , shorting the underlying to offset positive delta , now has to go to the back of the selling line during a panic . Bonds are not restricted because for one there is n't much interest in shorting because bonds usually do n't have enough variance to exceed the cost of borrowing , and many do not trade frequently enough because even the cost to trade bonds is expensive , so arranging a short in its entirety will be expensive . The preferred method to short a bond is with swaps , swaptions , etc. .
Income sourced to where the service was performed , so if you did n't write the article in the US - the income is not sourced to the US . The legal definition is in the <URL> .
You are missing something very significant . The money in a traditional IRA ( specifically , a deductible traditional IRA ; there is not really any reason to keep a nondeductible traditional IRA anymore ) is pre-tax . That means when you pay tax on it when you take it out , you are paying tax on it for the first time . If you take ordinary money to invest it in stocks , and then pay capital gains tax on it when you take it out , that is post-tax money to begin with -- meaning that you have already paid ( income ) tax on it once . Then you have to pay tax again on the time-value growth of that money ( i.e. that growth is earned from money that is already taxed ) . That means you are effectively paying tax twice on part of that money . If that does n't make sense to you , and you think that interest , capital gains , etc. is the first time you 're paying tax on the money because it 's growth , then you have a very simplistic view of money . There 's something called time value of money , which means that a certain amount of money is equivalent to a greater amount of money in the future . If you invest $ 100 now and end up with $ 150 in the future , that $ 150 in the future is effectively the same money as the $ 100 now . Let 's consider a few examples . Let 's say you have $ 1000 of pre-tax income you want to invest and withdraw a certain period of time later in retirement . Let 's say you have an investment that grows 100 % over this period of time . And let 's say that your tax rate now and in the future is 25 % ( and for simplicity , assume that all income is taxed at that rate instead of the tax bracket system ) . And capital gains tax is 15 % . Put it in a Traditional IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 grows to $ 2000 , you pay 25 % taxes , end up with $ 1500 Take it in your paycheck , and then invest it in the stock , and withdraw it at the end : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax to $ 750 , the investment grows to $ 1500 , but then you pay capital gains tax of 15 % x $ 750 = $ 112.50 . You end up with $ 1387.50 Put it in a Roth IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax on it to $ 750 ; it then grows to $ 1500 ; you pay no taxes on that You see a few things : Traditional IRA and Roth IRA are equivalent if the tax rates are the same . This is because , in both cases , you pay tax one time on the money ( the only difference between paying tax now and later is the tax rate ) . It does n't matter that you 're paying tax only on the principal for the Roth and on the principal plus earnings for Traditional , because the principal now is equivalent to the principal plus earnings in the future . And you also see that investing money outside fares worse than both of them . That is because you are paying tax on the money once plus some more . When you compare it against the Roth IRA , the disadvantage is obvious -- in both cases you pay income tax on the principal , but for Roth IRA you pay nothing on the earnings , whereas for the outside stock , you pay some tax on the earnings . What may be less obvious is it is equally disadvantageous compared to a Traditional IRA ; Traditional and Roth IRA are equivalent in this comparison . 401 ( k ) s and IRAs have a fundamental tax benefit compared to normal money investment , because they allow money to be taxed only one time . No matter how low the capital gains tax rate it , it is still worse because it is a tax on time-value growth from money that is already taxed .
Assuming you 're a US citizen/tax resident filing a form 1040 , it is . Unless your country has a tax treaty with the US to say otherwise . Most countries that do have a tax treaty with the US , have a special clause that discusses this type of income , however not every country has a tax treaty with the US ( most do n't , in fact ) , and not every country that does extends this provision on US citizens ( most do ) . Specifically to Israel : Bituah Leumi ( Social Security ) payments are exempt under the Israeli-US tax treaty . You 're receiving it from Israel , and for the purposes of the US tax law - you 're a resident of the US , thus you qualify under article 21 . In fact , the treaty says that neither country will tax that , so you should check with the Bituah Leumi office about this ( maternity payment is otherwise taxable income in Israel ) .
Tax consequences The tax consequence is that if you wait until January of 2011 to invest , you wo n't have the option to sell as a long-term capital gain in 2011 . However , this is not a huge point in practice : If the investment is at a loss , you would rather it be short-term ( if you care at all ) . You can sell in late 2011 as a short-term loss in either case . If the investment is at a gain , you would rather it be long-term . However , you can just hold onto it into 2012 , since you normally would rather defer gains anyway . The exception would be if your marginal tax rate would be higher in 2012 than 2011 , which could occur because of your income going up , or tax code changes . This might cause you to prefer to sell in 2011 , if you were planning to sell soon anyway . Conversion ? If your income this year was very low , but will go up in 2011 , you might want to convert some or all of it into a roth ira this year . This would let you pay the tax on it at your low tax rate for this year , rather than at the likely higher rate when you retire . Investment return consequences An investment consequence is the fact that your money is sitting there , earning a lower expected rate of return than it could be . Not knowing your situation , I ca n't say how aggressive your holdings will be . Taking a fairly aggressive portfolio , 9 % expected yearly return , and not investing for a month , you lose about .75 % on average . Not huge , but something to consider . Remember that any decision you make here is n't permanent . If your previous allocation in the 401 ( k ) was 100 % in stock funds , you could put it in something like <URL> , Vanguard 's total US stock market ETF . Since the money was previously invested , dollar-cost averaging does n't apply here .
I would suggest to buy your own printer , and calculate the cost for a page including the wear to the printer . Then either deduce these printing expenses , or ask the charity to reimburse you . This is not much different than when you would go to a copyshop , those easily charge 10-30c per page , with your own printer you can probably get it around 5-10c per page , including paper , toner , drum , and amortization . The advantage is that when you do use the printer for other purposes , you wont get into any problems with who owns the printer or deductions .
As best as I can understand , your payout is based on your AIME , which is also capped at that same $ 118,500 , so Trump 's payout should also be equivalently small , exactly proportional to this cap Not sure what you want from Bernie here , but that is correct . Is it accurate to say that Trump will be paid by social security as though his actual income was $ 118,500 , rather than his full income ? Assuming Trump does pay that much ( depends on how much of his income is actually subject to the FICA/SE tax ) , yes , it is accurate . However I believe what confuses you is the point Bernie Sanders made about people getting the same benefit while being rich . Bernie 's point was that Trump and the likes do n't need the social security income , while they 're still getting it . Social Security is designed ( at least theoretically ) to be the safety net for people of age who can not provide for themselves , thus it is not supposed to be " you get what you paid " system . This is a political discussion though . Social Security system , by definition , is based on a major principle of any socialist society : we as a group should support those who can not support themselves . Thus , Bernie 's point is that we should n't support Trump ( and the likes ) at all since they do n't need that money . But they should still pay the tax to allow supporting those who do need , but can not pay in .
Short answer : Yes You have to report these benefits as income , whether you opt for gift cards or anything else ( I 'm not familiar with what possible options exist for cashing out points ) . If you redeem an aggregate of $ 600 or more throughout the calendar year , they will send you a 1099 to include with your taxes ( and send a copy to the IRS ) . It 's important to note that even if you do n't get $ 600 or more in rewards , you are required to report it as additional income .
If your itemized deductions on Schedule A exceed the standard deduction , then you can itemize your deductions and deduct the actual amount . State taxes are included in the itemized deductions ( though excluded from AMT , but at these levels of income that 's irrelevant ) . Thus you can deduct your California State taxes from your Federal income . It is not exactly dollar for dollar , since you have the standard deduction in any case , so essentially you only benefit from the excess of your State taxes over the standard deduction . Keep in mind , when comparing California to Washington , that the State income tax is only one of many items which will make your life more expensive in California . Other items include significantly higher rents ( at least at the tech-centric areas of SF Bay and LA-Orange County ) , higher sales taxes , higher gas prices , etc etc. . But its sunny most of the year so you 've got that .
Your taxes are only slightly more complex than previous years . Therefore if you were comfortable doing your taxes using software last year , you should n't have any problems doing them this year . Both the software and professional should use how you answer a few basic questions , and the information on your paperwork , to guide you though your options . They will calculate the different approaches and present you with the options . One thing that you will need is a social security number for the child in order to claim them as a dependent . So If you have n't started the <URL> you should do so now .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
Where you can put the money really depends on your risk tolerance . You could take $ 50k and put it into a good share class municipal and government bond fund that would likely be tax exempt . In a few years span I do n't think you 're likely to lose much in a tax-managed bond fund but it 's certainly possible ! Here is a link for Vanguard tax-exempt bond funds by state of residency : <URL> These funds have returns well exceeding CD 's or standard savings accounts . Risk of loss is real , but returns are possible .
I would guess that before the spin-off , more money would be available In my experience the reverse is true . The finance folks go into overdrive tightening everything up so that budget forecasts for the transition period are as accurate and predictable as possible . This can be true 6 months out , 12 months out , etc - depending on the size and complexity of the business . So in terms of when to renegotiate , I think approaching the issue after the dust has settled is more realistic . Make sure you know your numbers as per normal and just remember that after the spin-off has occurred it 's a business like any other business : if you are in position to negotiate ( and reasonably expect ) a raise then the fact that they spun off recently - a month or two before - is meaningless to the negotiation .
You only pay tax on the capital gain of the bond , not the principal , unless the source of the money for the principal was gain from another investment , if that makes sense . In other words , if you bought the bond with income earned from your job , that money was already taxed as income , so it is n't subject to taxation again when you redeem the bond . On the other hand , if you cashed out of one investment and used those proceeds to buy a bond , then the entire amount might be taxable .
Any interest [ even Rs 1 ] received to from Savings Bank is taxable [ provided you total income including interest is taxable ] . If the Amount of Interest is less than Rs 10,000 / - Bank need not deduct tax at source . This does not mean you are not liable to pay tax . If you total income is less than Rs 5,00,000 and interest income less than Rs 10,000 ; you can indicate you savings interest to your employer who would deduct tax and you need not file any return . Refer to <URL> If the total tax obligation that is not paid by 15th March is less than Rs 10,000 you can pay the tax online without any penalty as " Self Assessment Tax " upto 31-July . <URL> There is / was a proposal to exempt Interest from Savings Account [ and not from Fixed Deposits or Recurring Deposits ] upto Rs 10,000 . This is applicable from 1-Apr-2013 and would be for current financial year . <URL>
FICA No . FUTA Generally , FUTA is limited to a very low amount compared to the overall salary ( first $ 7K a year ) SDI Depends on the state law , generally is also limited to a certain maximum amount . SUI Same as SDI - depends on the state law . ETT If you 're referring to the California Employment Training tax - it is limited to the first $ 7K of the annual pay , same as FUTA . Non-taxable fringe benefits are not considered wages .
It is important to remember that the tax brackets in the U.S. are marginal . This means that the first part of your income is taxed at 10 % , the next part at 15 % , next at 25 % , etc. . Therefore , if you find yourself just on the edge of a tax bracket , it really does not make any difference which side of that line you end up falling on . That having been said , of course , reducing your taxable income reduces your taxes . There are lots of deductions you can take , if you qualify . Depending on what type of health insurance coverage you have , a Health Savings Account ( HSA ) is a great way to shelter some income from taxes . Charitable contributions are also an easy way to reduce your taxes ; you do n't really personally benefit from them , but if you 'd rather send your money to a good cause than to Uncle Sam , that 's an easy way to do it .
You were told wrong . Lifetime Learning Credit is not a refundable credit . I.e. : it reduces your tax liability , but you can not get refund if it exceeds your tax liability . See <URL> for more information : A tax credit reduces the amount of income tax you may have to pay . Unlike a deduction , which reduces the amount of income subject to tax , a credit directly reduces the tax itself . The lifetime learning credit is a nonrefundable credit . This means that it can reduce your tax to zero , but if the credit is more than your tax the excess will not be refunded to you . You may be able to qualify for a different benefit : the American Opportunity credit . This one is ( partially ) refundable . See <URL> for details . <URL> .
end question
start question
Is there anything to do immediately after exercising stock options ?
Much like if you had a large capital gain with no withholding , you should determine if you 'll be at risk of an <URL> . Generally this means you end up owing more than $ 1000 at tax filing time , though there are some safe harbors . Unfortunately that is more difficult with AMT and its interplay with the regular income tax system . But you should be able to estimate how much extra you 'll owe . With that information , you have two options . You can either pay estimated taxes , or if you have a W-2 job , just adjust your withholding . Keep in mind if you 're exercising now , the penalty should be pretty minimal since it 's only for part of the year , and interest rates are low .
To Chris ' comment , find out if the assignment commission is the same as the commission for an executed trade . If that does affect the profit , just let it expire . I 've had spreads ( buy a call , sell a higher strike call , same dates ) so deep in the money , I just made sense to let both exercise at expiration . Do n't panic if all legs ofthe trade do n't show until Sunday or even Monday morning .
It appears that FDENX charges 0.05 % for its own expenses , but has additional 0.61 % expenses from the underlying funds . This is because , as most target date funds , it does n't invest directly in stocks but rather invests in other Fidelity funds - that also charge expenses . The Pyramis fund may be avoiding these charges by managing it 's assets directly and not through other funds , or by investing in other Pyramis index funds without additional overhead . 0.66 % for a target date fund is quite a lot , I must say .
I ca n't give you a specific answer because I 'm not a tax accountant , so you should seek advice from a tax professional with experience relevant to your situation . This could be a complicated situation . That being said , one place you could start is the Canada Revenue Agency 's <URL> on investment income , which contains this paragraph : Interest , foreign interest and dividend income , foreign income , foreign non-business income , and certain other income are all amounts you report on your return . They are usually shown on the following slips : T5 , T3 , T5013 , T5013A To avoid double taxation , Canada and the US almost certainly have a foreign tax treaty that ensures you are only taxed in your country of residence . I 'm assuming you 're a resident of Canada . Also , <URL> states that : If you received foreign interest or dividend income , you have to report it in Canadian dollars . Use the <URL> exchange rate that was in effect on the day you received the income . If you received the income at different times during the year , use the <URL> You should consult a tax professional . I 'm not a tax professional , let alone one who specializes in the Canadian tax system . A professional is the only one you should trust to answer your question with 100 % accuracy .
I am not an accountant , however , I believe the following to be true : You would normally pay the tax , although either person can pay it . ref : <URL> The way I understand it , you only owe tax if your COST BASIS is greater than the current tax free allowable amount ( which is $ 13,000 in 2011 per person you are gifting to ) . For appreciated property , you only owe tax on the cost basis of the property . The receiver will end up paying taxes on the appreciation later . This is a good way to shift money to people in a lower income tax bracket . You can transfer your existing shares . You can transfer them to any account including a retirement account . However , this would be considered part of their IRA contribution for that year . The cost basis for the receiver will be the same cost basis that you have . That will transfer to the person you are giving the gift to . ref : <URL> However , if there is a loss or federal gift tax is paid it can affect your cost basis . <URL> . No , gifts are not normally deductible , whether they are cash or not . Donations to 501 ( c ) 3 type organizations are deductible . ref : <URL>
The short answer , probably not much . Unless you have a controlling interest in the company . If at least 50 % +1 of the shareholder votes are in favor of the dilution then it can be done . There are some SEC rules that should protect against corporate looting and theft like what the Severin side is trying to make it appear as happened . However it would appear that Severin did something stupid . He signed away all of his voting right to someone who would use them to make his rights basically worthless . Had he kept his head in the game he could probably have saved himself . But he didnt . If your average startup started issuing lots of stock and devaling existing shares signifigantly then I would expect it would be harder to find investors willing to watch as their investment dwindled . But if you are issuing a limited amount stock to get leverage to grow bigger then it is worth it . In the . com bubble there were quite a few companies that just issued stock to buy other companies . Eventually most of these companies got delisted because they diluted them selves to much when they were overvalued . Any company not just a startup can dilute its shares . Many if not most major companies issue stock to raise capital . This capital is then generally used to build the business further and increase the value of all shares . Most of the time this dilution is very minor ( < .1 % ) and has little if any impact on the stock . There are rules that have to be followed as listed companies are regulated by the SEC . There are less regulations with private corporations . It looks like the dilution was combined with the buyout of the Florida company which probably contributed to the legality of the dilution . With options they are generally issued at a set price . This may be higher or lower than the reported sell price of the stock when the option is issued . The idea is over time the stock will increase in value so that those people who hold on to their options can buy the stock for the price listed on the option . I worked at an ISP start up in the 90 's that made it pretty well . I left before the options were issued but I had friends still there that were issued an option at $ 16 a share the value of the stock at the time of the issue of the option was about 12 . Well the company diluted the shares and used them to aquire more ISP 's unfortunately this was about the time that DSL And cable internet took off so the dial up market tanked . The value eventually fell to .10 they did a reverse split and when they did the called in all options . The options did not have a positive cash value at any time . Had RMI ever made it big then the options could have been worth millions . There are some people from MS and Yahoo that were in early that made millions off of their options . This became a popular way for startups to attract great talent paying peanuts . They invested their time in the business hoping to strike gold . Alot of IT people got burned so this is less popular among top talent as the primary compensation anymore .
Context is key here . Futures do n't really have to do with a time in the future in this context . Futures are a capital market ( futures market ) , just like Stocks are a market ( stock market ) . Both capital markets have the ability to affect each other . Up until 30 years ago there was a separate use for the futures market , but in the days since they are MOSTLY used for stock derivatives ( financial futures are the most widely traded contracts since 1980 , hugely eclipsing the commodity futures that the market was designed for . ) So there is overlap and one affect the other , I 'm not going to go into too much detail here but basically the futures market trades 24 hours a day , 6.5 days of the week and the stock market trades 8-12 hours a day , 5 days a week . So when the stock market closes , the futures market is still running will react and effect the broad stock market . Hope that gets you started in your research
It will be similar to what you have said -- the options price will adjust accordingly following a stock split - Here 's a good reference on different scenarios - <URL> also if you have time to read <URL>
Much like if you had a large capital gain with no withholding , you should determine if you 'll be at risk of an <URL> . Generally this means you end up owing more than $ 1000 at tax filing time , though there are some safe harbors . Unfortunately that is more difficult with AMT and its interplay with the regular income tax system . But you should be able to estimate how much extra you 'll owe . With that information , you have two options . You can either pay estimated taxes , or if you have a W-2 job , just adjust your withholding . Keep in mind if you 're exercising now , the penalty should be pretty minimal since it 's only for part of the year , and interest rates are low .
Yes . I heard back from a couple brokerages that gave detailed responses . Specifically : In a Margin account , there are no SEC trade settlement rules , which means there is no risk of any free ride violations . The SEC has a FAQ page on <URL> , which states that it applies specifically to cash accounts . This led me to dig up the text on <URL> which gives the " free-riding " rule in  220.8 ( c ) , which is titled " 90 day freeze " .  220.8 is the section on cash accounts . Nothing in the sections on margin accounts mentions such a settlement restriction . From the <URL> , the margin agreement implicitly covers settlement . " Buying Power " does n't seem to be a Regulation T thing , but it 's something that the brokerages that I 've seen use to state how much purchasing power a client has . Given the response from the brokerage , above , and my reading of Regulation T and the relevant Wikipedia page , proceeds from the sale of any security in a margin account are available immediately for reinvestment . Settlement is covered implicitly by margin ; i.e. it does n't detract from buying power . Additionally , I have personally been making these types of trades over the last year . In a sub - $ 25K margin account , proceeds are immediately available . The only thing I still have to look out for is running into the day-trading rules .
You do n't have to wait . If you sell your shares now , your gain can be considered a capital gain for income tax purposes . Unlike in the United States , Canada does not distinguish between short-term vs. long-term gains where you 'd pay different rates on each type of gain . Whether you buy and sell a stock within minutes or buy and sell over years , any gain you make on a stock can generally be considered a capital gain . I said generally because there is an exception : If you are deemed by CRA to be trading professionally -- that is , if you make a living buying and selling stocks frequently -- then you could be considered doing day trading as a business and have your gains instead taxed as regular income ( but you 'd also be able to claim additional deductions . ) Anyway , as long as your primary source of income is n't from trading , this is n't likely to be a problem . Here are some good articles on these subjects : Jamie Golombek 's National Post article : <URL> . Million Dollar Journey 's blog post : <URL> . The Canadian Tax Resource blog post : <URL> .
This is called " <URL> " . If your company is publicly traded it is definitely doable through your broker . If your company is private , you 'll have to ask them if it is possible , and if it is - how the process works . Re taxes , hard to tell since you did n't mention what country you 're from . But generally , in all the tax jurisdictions I know of ( which is not a lot ) the amount you get above the amount that you paid is considered salary in this scenario and is taxed accordingly .
I think something you might want to look at is a service called <URL> . They charge $ 0.25 per transaction , and are free for transactions under $ 10 .
You 're thinking that by rolling over your Roth 401 ( k ) to Roth IRA the whole amount becomes " contribution " . That is not so , you 're not losing the characteristics of the amounts within the account . The grouping rules of <URL> still apply , and you still need to separate contributions from earnings . See specifically this text in the statute : Any distribution allocated to a qualified rollover contribution under clause ( ii ) ( II ) shall be allocated first to the portion of such contribution required to be included in gross income . So no , you do not get to withdraw earnings tax free just because you rolled them over . As a general rule , when you read the IRS pub 590 - consider your rollover from Roth 401 ( k ) as if it was a roll-over from a different Roth IRA . But do consult a tax professional ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) as there are intricacies . You seem to be confused about various holding period limitations ( " 5-year rules " ) for Roth IRA . There are two : You can not have qualified distributions unless you had the Roth IRA for at least 5 years . You can not withdraw earnings on amounts from conversions without penalty ( additional 10 % ) within the first 5 years of conversion . These are two separate and unrelated limitations . Since you 're talking about Roth 401 ( k ) roll-over - the second one does n't apply , since you did n't do any conversion . The first one does . See <URL> for in-depth discussion on this . In any case , you pay tax ( with or without the additional 10 % penalty ) on distribution attributed to earnings , unless it is qualified distribution .
I did receive TurboTax 's automatically generated confirmation of successfully completing tax filing electronically the day I did my tax on their web site . About 24 to 48 hours after you push the button at TurboTax the IRS should either confirm or reject the initial check of the tax documents . You should return to the TurboTax website to make sure the IRS has accepted the reutrn . Next review either the confirmation you received when you pushed the button or the information at the TurboTax site . It should specify when the money would be withdrawn . You were given options regarding payment method and date you want to make the payment . Many people who finish their tax paperwork early , but owe money wait until the last day to submit . Now it is possible to submit paperwork early but specify a date just before the deadline . Print out or even better save an electronic copy of the information at the TurboTax website . I have no idea how long it takes the IRS to actually pull the money from an account , once the day you specified has occurred . You have to plan as if the withdraw will happen on the exact date , but with millions of tax payers making transactions it may be delayed by a day or two .
Assuming you plan to buy a whole number of shares and have a maximum dollar value you intend to invest , it may be better to wait for the split if the figures do n't quite work out nicely . For example , if you are going to invest $ 1,000 and the stock pre-split is $ 400 and the split is 2 for 1 , then you 'd buy 2 shares before the split unless you have an extra $ 200 to add . Meanwhile , after the split you could buy 5 shares at $ 200 so that you invest all that you intend . Aside from that case , it does n't really make a difference since the split is similar to getting 2 nickels for a dime which in each case is still a total value of 10 cents .
According to <URL> : Loans can only be re-consolidated if the borrower has a new loan to add . ABC News <URL> : In 2006 , Congress eliminated joint consolidation loans for married couples So it would seem that you can consolidate her loans into one or two loans , but those can not be combined with yours .
Not necessarily . The abbreviation " ESOP " is ambiguous . There are at least 8 variations I know of : Employee [ Share / Stock ] [ Owership / Option ] [ Plan / Program ] . You 'll find references on Google to each of those , some more than others . For fun you can even substitute the word " Executive " for " Employee " and I 'm sure you 'll find more . Really . So you may be mistaken about the " O " referring to " options " and thereby implying it must be about options . Or , you may be right . If you participate in such a plan ( or program ) then check the documentation and then you 'll know what it stands for , and how it works . That being said : companies can have either kind of incentive plan : one that issues stock , or one that issues options , with the intent to eventually issue stock in exchange for the option exercise price . When options are issued , they usually do have an expiration date by which you need to exercise if you want to buy the shares . There may be other conditions attached . For instance , whether the plan is about stocks or options , often there is a vesting schedule that determines when you become eligible to buy or exercise . When you buy the shares , they may be registered directly in your name ( you might get a fancy certificate ) , or they may be deposited in an account in your name . If the company is small and private , the former may be the case , and if public , the latter may be the case . Details vary . Check the plan 's documentation and/or with its administrators .
No ca n't make quick bucks . It depends very much on what the strike price was . Dividends which are below 10 % of the market value of the underlying stock , would be deemed to be ordinary dividends and no adjustment in the Strike Price would be made for ordinary dividends . For extra-ordinary dividends , above 10 % of the market value of the underlying security , the Strike Price would be adjusted . Refer more at <URL> Edit : The Nifty consists of <URL> . The largest one has weight of around 8 % . So 10 % on this will only translate to .8 % on index .
There are not currently after hours trading for equity options CBOE just in early 2015 approved after hours trading on their SPX and VIX indices ( where the SPX is a derivative of a bundle of equities , and the VIX is a derivative of the SPX 's options spreads ... and VIX options are a derivative of the VIX , we can go deeper ) These are basically 24 hours 5.5 days of the week now with some 30 minute maintainance gaps . Not perfect to solve this glaring market inefficiency , where other markets are much more advanced in this regards , but progress . So nothing for individual equities but you may be able to base a strategy around broad market indices
end question
start question
How to allocate Roth conversion income across states when moved during year ?
I found this on the California Franchise Tax Board web at <URL> : If a taxpayer chooses to defer to 2011 and 2012 and the taxpayer leaves California in one of those years how is the conversion treated for California purposes ? Similarly , how is the conversion treated if a nonresident moves into California ? In Legal Ruling 98-3 , Taxation of IRA Distributions Rolled Over to a Roth IRA Followed by a Change of Residence Status , we provided guidance as to the tax treatment of California residents who converted a traditional IRA to Roth IRA in 1998 and then change residence during the ratable period between 1999 and 2001 , as well as the tax treatment of non California residents who converted an IRA to Roth IRA in 1998 and then become California residents in the period between 1999 and 2001 . The analysis in this ruling remains applicable to the new deferral rule allowing taxpayers to report the income from the conversion of a traditional IRA ratably over the two years following the conversion . Outbound taxpayers must include in gross income only those portions of the taxable distribution reportable under the two year rule before they became nonresidents . Under R&amp;TC section 17952.5 the gross income of a nonresident does not include qualified retirement income including income from an IRA , received on or after January 1 , 1996 . R&amp;TC 17952.5 prevents the imposition of California tax on the portions of the IRA distribution recognized after an individual becomes a nonresident . California will allow for the proration of the taxpayer 's income from the conversion based upon the number of days a taxpayer is within California during the two years of the proration . An individual who makes a rollover contribution from an IRA to a Roth IRA before January 1 , 2011 and changes residency in 2011 , must include in California adjusted gross income one half of the taxable portion of the distribution multiplied by a fraction , the denominator of which is the total number of days in the taxable year and the numerator of which is the number of days in the year in which the individual is a California resident . If the taxpayer changes residency during the second year , the amount included in California adjusted gross income for the year of the change in residency is one half of the taxable distribution multiplied by a fraction , the denominator of which is the total number of days in the taxable year and the numerator of which is the number of days in the year in which the individual is a California resident .
No , sorry . A change of 401 ( k ) administrator is not an out , otherwise many would flee a bad plan . I 'd suggest you only deposit up to the match , but use an IRA if you 'd like to save more . A plan with high fees can easily negate the tax benefits and then some .
The most common way to handle this in the US is with a UTMA account . UTMA is the <URL> ( " UTMA " or " UGMA " ) which is a standard model law that most states have passed for special kinds of accounts . Once you open an account , anyone can contribute . Usually parents and grandparents will contribute $ 13,000 or less per year to make it a tax free transfer , but you can transfer more . The account itself would just be a standard brokerage account of any sort , but the title of the account would include your son 's name , the applicable law depending on your state , and the name of the custodian who would control the account until your son turned 18 . When your son does turn 18 , the money is his . Until then , the money is his , but you control how it 's invested . I 'm a huge fan of <URL> . You may prefer to diversify a bit away from one company by selling the GE shares and buying an index mutual fund so that your child 's education is not jeopardized by a rogue trader bringing down General Electric sometime in the next decade ...
No -- the U.S. is the only country that imposes such a requirement on its citizens . Eritrea is another country ( the only other ... ) in the world which taxes non-resident citizens , but it is not a regular income tax . Every other country in the world taxes by residency and not by citizenship . Canadian citizens who no longer reside in Canada ( i.e. : have permanently emigrated , can prove that they did , and are officially residents elsewhere ) are only taxed on income from Canadian sources . For more information see <URL> .
In regards to your question about Social Security being taxable income , yes - Social Security distributions are currently considered taxable income . That was n't the case for decades , but what Congress giveth , Congress can taketh away . According to IRS tax tip 2010-31 ( http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=179091,00.html ) : Add one-half of the total Social Security benefits you receive to all your other income , including any tax exempt interest and other exclusions from income . " If that is higher than the following ( 2009 ) base amounts , some of your benefits may be taxable :  $ 32,000 for married couples filing jointly .  $ 25,000 for single , separated , head of household , widow w / dependent child  $ 0 for married filing separately So if you 're single , you 'd have to keep your 401k + traditional IRA distributions + 1/2 social security distributions under $ 25k to avoid the social security adding to your taxable income In 2010 , the 15 % tax bracket stops at $ 34k for single filers .
Yes , it can be done . See " Scenario 4 " at <URL> . Though that article is primarily about getting after-tax 401 ( k ) money into a Roth IRA , Scenario 4 applies to the scenario you are asking about . At a high level you do exactly what you say -- transfer the pre-tax money from your trad IRAs to a 401 ( k ) ( btw , a solo 401 ( k ) will work for this also -- does n't have to be your employer 's -- but then you need to be eligible to set up a solo 401 ( k ) ) . This is allowed because qualified plans ca n't accept after after-tax traditional IRA money , so the transfer overrides the usual pro rata rules and " strains " the basis out and leaves it in the trad IRA . However , there 's a mismatch between the intent of Congress ( as indicated by the Joint Committee on Taxation report on the law ) and the actual text of the law as detailed in the Fairmark article which while it does n't stop you from doing this adds a couple of hoops to jump through if you want to be in total compliance with the law .
At exactly 105K you can take a deduction of 13/20 * 5500 = $ 3575 each and the rest ( $ 1925 ) as a Roth deposit . No need to have non-deducted money , when you can just make use of both flavors of IRA .
Reward cards are for people who can demonstrate to the lender that paying them the rewards is " worth it " , and the lender comes ahead in the end . Let me step back from just answering your question and understand what you are trying to do . First , stop doing what you are doing right now . No further applications as you have reduced your chances of getting unsecured credit by having a lot of hard hits to your report . I assume you have a SSN , and in that case what you are doing is digging a deep hole to put yourself into the next year unless you have a job at hand ( to justify a debt-income ratio that a lender will look at before approval ) . Read this and ask questions : <URL> Tell us more about your background : esp . if you have a job , how much credit you are seeking and what made you decide applying for rewards cards was a good idea to begin with . Updated after OPs edit : Your question has been answered already : the answer being " Yes " . I trust the answer and the person behind it . However , I know where you are coming from , and what you should focus on is establish a strong foundation for your credit . In that light you should n't be asking about rewards card . Rewards will come ( I am told ) but the time 's not now . The reason is embedded in your own edit : For the record , I 'm an incoming PhD student on a fellowship with an expected annual income of $ 30k for the next 5 years . I wanted to apply for reward cards since some of them were available and I wanted to try them out ( but I 'm ignorant of the bigger picture as I know little about credit cards ) The lenders have no metric about your expected annual income : they can see the data in a W2 , in a 1040 or similar . Anything else is up for speculation ; even your expected salary on a contract : if your project gets shelved or your advisor gets fired , you no longer have the money . If the lender gives you a line of credit you are then likely to use it up and then have a hard time paying it back . Establish strong foundation for your credit , focus your efforts there for now . If you have done less than 3 apps recently , see if you get a secured credit card . If you do n't get approved , it looks like you can have your parents to help you out ? Add yourself as an authorized user to a BofA card they own . I know BofA reports the authorized users on their cards . You can try a student credit union : I use <URL> . They rock . The fact that my professors also have accounts there and I often go in with them when I have a favor to ask from the CU might bias my feedback , so do your own research . You are a smart guy , put that brain to use :-D Best of luck !
If you are n't familiar with <URL> , it 's worth looking at . This is a mechanism using a Canadian brokerage account to simultaneously execute one stock trade in CAD and one in USD . The link I provided claims that it only starts potentially making sense somewhere in the 10,000 + range .
If you have just started an IRA ( presumably with a contribution for 2012 ) , you likely have $ 5000 in it , or $ 10,000 if you made a full contribution for 2013 as well . At this time , I would recommend putting it all in a single low-cost mutual fund . Typically , mutual funds that track an index such as the S&amp;P 500 Index have lower costs ( annual expense fees ) than actively managed funds , and most investment companies offer such mutual funds , with Fidelity , Vanguard , Schwab , to name a few , having very low expenses even among index funds . Later , when you have more money in the account , you can consider diversifying into more funds , buying stocks and bonds , investing in ETFs , etc. . Incidentally , if you are just starting out and your Roth IRA is essentially your first investment experience , be aware that you do not need a brokerage account for your Roth IRA until you have more money in the account to invest and specifically want to buy individual stocks and bonds instead of just mutual funds . If you opened a brokerage account for your Roth IRA , close it and transfer the Roth IRA to your choice of mutual fund company ; else you will be paying annual fees to the brokerage for maintaining your account , inactivity fees since you wo n't be doing any trading , etc. . The easiest way to do this is to go to the mutual fund company web site and tell them that you want to transfer your IRA to them ( not roll over your IRA to them ) and they will take care of all the paper work and collecting your money from the brokerage ( ditto if your Roth IRA is with a bank or another mutual fund company ) . Then close your brokerage account .
From the way you frame the question it sounds like you more or less know the answer already . Yes - you can make a non-deductable contribution to a traditional IRA and convert it to a Roth IRA . Here is <URL> 's explanation : Regardless of income but subject to contribution limits , contributions can be made to a Traditional IRA and then converted to a Roth IRA . [ 10 ] This allows for " backdoor " contributions where individuals are able to avoid the income limitations of the Roth IRA . There is no limit to the frequency with which conversions can occur , so this process can be repeated indefinitely . One major caveat to the entire " backdoor " Roth IRA contribution process , however , is that it only works for people who do not have any pre-tax contributed money in IRA accounts at the time of the " backdoor " conversion to Roth ; conversions made when other IRA money exists are subject to pro-rata calculations and may lead to tax liabilities on the part of the converter . [ 9 ] Do note the caveat in the second paragraph . <URL> explains it more thoroughly : The IRS does not allow converters to specify which dollars are being converted as they can with shares of stock being sold ; for the purposes of determining taxes on conversions the IRS considers a person 's non-Roth IRA money to be a single , co-mingled sum . Hence , if a person has any funds in any non-Roth IRA accounts , it is impossible to contribute to a Traditional IRA and then " convert that account " to a Roth IRA as suggested by various pundits and the Wikipedia piece referenced above -- conversions must be performed on a pro-rata basis of all IRA money , not on specific dollars or accounts . Say you have $ 20k of pre-tax assets in a traditional IRA , and make a non-deductable contribution of $ 5k . The account is now 80 % pre-tax assets and 20 % post-tax assets , so if you move $ 5k into a Roth IRA , $ 4k of it would be taxed in the conversion . The traditional IRA would be left with $ 16k of pre-tax assets and $ 4k of post-tax assets .
Generally it goes by when they receive the check , not when they cash the check . Though if the check was received prior to midnight on December 31st , but after the bank closes , they would probably let the tax payer decide to count it for the next year . Of course if the check is from person A to person B then the only issue is gift tax , or annual limit calculations . If it is company to person then income tax could be involved . The IRS calls this <URL> Income Under the cash method , include in your gross income all items of income you actually or constructively receive during your tax year . If you receive property or services , you must include their fair market value in income . Example . On December 30 , 2011 , Mrs. Sycamore sent you a check for interior decorating services you provided to her . You received the check on January 2 , 2012 . You must include the amount of the check in income for 2012 . Constructive receipt . You have constructive receipt of income when an amount is credited to your account or made available to you without restriction . You do not need to have possession of it . If you authorize someone to be your agent and receive income for you , you are treated as having received it when your agent received it . Example . Interest is credited to your bank account in December 2012 . You do not withdraw it or enter it into your passbook until 2013 . You must include it in your gross income for 2012 . Delaying receipt of income . You can not hold checks or postpone taking possession of similar property from one tax year to another to avoid paying tax on the income . You must report the income in the year the property is received or made available to you without restriction . Example . Frances Jones , a service contractor , was entitled to receive a $ 10,000 payment on a contract in December 2012 . She was told in December that her payment was available . At her request , she was not paid until January 2013 . She must include this payment in her 2012 income because it was constructively received in 2012 . Checks . Receipt of a valid check by the end of the tax year is constructive receipt of income in that year , even if you can not cash or deposit the check until the following year . Example . Dr. Redd received a check for $ 500 on December 31 , 2012 , from a patient . She could not deposit the check in her business account until January 2 , 2013 . She must include this fee in her income for 2012 . In general it is best not to cut it close . If the check is to be counted as an January event it is best to send it in January . If it is to be December event it is best to send it early enough to be able to say with confidence that the check arrived at the destination before the end of the year .
You do not report the Roth IRA on your 1040 because it has no implication to your current tax situation ( as you fund it with after-tax dollars ) . Your IRA custodian ( s ) would report the contributions to the IRS on form <URL> , which would then be used to determine if all of your contributions for the tax year were under the Roth IRA limits . If you did over-contribute , you are subject to a penalty , per year , of 6 % of the above-the-limit amount ; so if you contributed $ 6,000 , and your limit was $ 5,500 , you may be subject to a penalty of .06 * 500 or $ 30 per year until you correct the over-contribution ( by withdrawing the over amount plus its portion of the IRA 's gains , paying taxes on the gains , and paying any early withdrawal penalties if applicable ) . ( Credit to <URL> for the <URL> in comments . )
Mortgage rates are determined in what is known as the " TBA " ( to be announced ) market . Most indices are in some way a function of the rate determined in this underlying market . From <URL> : Pass-through securities issued by Freddie Mac , Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae trade in the TBA market . The term TBA is derived from the fact that the actual mortgage-backed security that will be delivered to fulfill a TBA trade is not designated at the time the trade is made . The securities are " to be announced " 48 hours prior to the established trade settlement date . The mortgage rates determined in this market do correlate rather closely to rates in the parallel Treasury market , as many TBA traders are active in both markets ( usually for hedging duration , or overall interest rate risk , with Treasuries , in the case of mortgage traders ) and most traders think of the market in terms of their " spread " over Treasuries ( although there is no universal way to measure this spread , many models exist ) .
One common type of account is called a <URL> account . Under this type of account , the money is held in the child 's name for tax purposes , but the account is under control of a custodian until the child reaches a legal age . When you set up the account , the amount you put in is considered a gift to the child . The first consideration is the gift tax , which is paid by the giver . You can give him up to $ 14,000 per year and not have to pay any gift tax on the gift . Above that amount in a year , and there are lifetime exclusions that apply to avoid the tax . Your nephew , as the gift recipient , never has to pay income/gift tax on the gift . Any mutual fund company should be able to set up a UTMA account . They will need the child 's Social Security number , because the funds will belong to him , and he will be receiving tax statements each year on the earnings . You also need to identify the custodian . You could name yourself as the custodian , or you may want to select one of the child 's parents . The custodian has complete control of the funds , but is legally required to manage the money in the child 's interest . The custodian may choose to continue to invest , or may choose to withdraw the money to pay for something for the child ( college tuition , for example ) . Once the child reaches the age of majority , the money is completely under his control for any purpose . He could spend it on college , on rent , or he could put it all on red at the roulette table . The age of majority varies in each state , but in Washington State ( where I see from your profile that you are located ) , the age is generally 21 . The child is the owner of the fund for tax purposes . Depending on how much you give him and how much it earns , he might need to <URL> . If he earns enough , he 'll be subject to the <URL> , which means that his investment income above a certain amount will be taxed at his parents ' tax rate . You 'll want to make a note of the value of the mutual funds when you bought them , because <URL> for capital gains tax purposes when he sells the funds . ( The gift does not reset the cost basis . ) One other consideration that should be mentioned is that , because the money is in the child 's name , it can count against him for need-based financial aid purposes . Other types of accounts , such as the 529 plans , have tax benefits that the UTMA does not , but they generally require that the money be spent on college .
RSUs are not " essentially cash " . " R " in the RSU stands for restricted . These awards have strings attached , and as long as the strings are attached - you do n't really own the money . As such , most banks do not include RSUs in the income considerations . Some do , especially if they have a specific agreement with your employer ( check your HR/benefits coordinator ) . Specifically for mortgage loan , where the underwriting is very strict , I 'm not aware of banks that include RSUs as income without a specific agreement with the employer as a perk . For credit cards/car loans , where you just need to write a number , they would probably care less . Some banks ( but not all ) consider past performance , and would include bonuses ( and maybe RSUs ) if you can show several consecutive years of comparable bonuses .
The income should be reported in the year received . It does n't matter how you define the property ( the taxation on renting a second home is different and may not be in your favor , consult a CPA ) . Refer to <URL> . Quote : Advance Rent Advance rent is any amount you receive before the period that it covers . Include advance rent in your rental income in the year you receive it regardless of the period covered or the method of accounting you use .
To Chris ' comment , find out if the assignment commission is the same as the commission for an executed trade . If that does affect the profit , just let it expire . I 've had spreads ( buy a call , sell a higher strike call , same dates ) so deep in the money , I just made sense to let both exercise at expiration . Do n't panic if all legs ofthe trade do n't show until Sunday or even Monday morning .
I dont know if this data is available for the 1980s , but <URL> to an old question of mine discusses how you can pull stock related information from google or yahoo finance over a certain period of time . You could do this in excel or google spreadsheet and see if you could get the data you 're looking for . Quote from old post : Google Docs spreadsheets have a function for filling in stock and fund prices . You can use that data to graph ( fund1 / fund2 ) over some time period .
One option is to look at the <URL> - As George Marian notes , this is by no means a perfect way to " estimate " how much you 'll owe . Other key questions for you to answer : Have you setup the proper number of deductions for you and your family ? E.g. if you have a partner ( wife or husband ) who doesnt have a job , do you have 2 federal and 2 state deductions noted ? Take 30 minutes to identify the major tax deductions that you qualify for . For example , do you typically itemize your deductions or take the standard deduction ? Do you invest money into IRA 's , 401k 's , HSA 's , or any other tax deferred investment vehicle ? Do you pay any interest on student loans ? Here is the <URL> on tax deductions . Another decent website lists the <URL> . It is n't hard to find these type of websites , all I did was to google " <URL> " . There 's no silver bullet here . The best you can do is to understand the key inputs into how your taxes are calculated , and then identify the most important tax deductions that you might take . Then pray that you have n't missed some nuance and use a tax program early in January to check your assumptions so you 're not completely surprised when April rolls around . A final suggestion : do your own taxes using a website like TurboTax . Take the time to " itemize " your tax deductions just to learn what is tax deductible . You can figure out how the big parts of tax law works by just looking at what you could deduct in the future .
end question
start question
Do last minute IRA contributions reduce taxes on dividends and interest paid during that tax year ?
You can not fund an IRA with securities -- you can only contribute cash to the IRA . This renders your question moot .
You can OPEN whatever accounts you wish , you can only FUND your retirement accounts ( i.e. IRA + Roth IRA ) up to the annual contribution limit . Any given individual 's annual contribution limit for 2013/14 is $ 5,500 ( $ 6,500 if you are older than 50 ) . Remember you can open and fund any account ( as if it were done in the previous year ) prior to the tax filing deadline of the given year . E.g. . You can still open 2013 accounts until you file your 2013 tax return . Examples : During 2013 you open an IRA and fund it with $ 2,500 . You can open a Roth IRA in 2013 and fund it $ 3,000 . For a total of $ 5,500 ( contribution limit ) . During 2013 you open an IRA and fund it with $ 5,500 . During 2014 you open a Roth IRA and fund it with $ 5,500 . Your spouse is allowed to do the same , effectively doubling the contribution limit . Mind you your contributions to not exceed your income in the same taxable year . Assuming you are filing jointly this " doubled " limit can even be met even if only one spouse has earned income ! AS SPOUSES , the total combined annual contribution limit is " doubled . " So $ 11,000 normally and $ 13,000 if you are each 50 + ( $ 12,000 if one < 50 and one 50 + ) . All this is to say , as an individual you are allowed up to $ 5,500 / 6,500 per year divided among whatever accounts you choose and up to $ 11,000 / $ 13,000 per year as spouses ( two individuals ) .
Your broker should be able to provide you with the amount of foreign dividends . Most brokerage statements have an expanded section after the 1099s with dividend details , realised gains and losses , margin interest , investment fees and other detailed information that is not reported to the IRS .
Unfortunately you have to take the deduction in the proper tax year . Your 2015 contribution , even if made in 2016 impacts the taxes you file in April 2016 . The logic allows taxpayers to decide how much to contribute into a IRA or Roth IRA after all the other calculations have been done . Some people are near the cutoffs and ca n't know what makes sense or what is allowed until all the numbers are in . This following suggestion may seem counter-intuitive ; but if you are in a very low tax bracket this year , and expect to be in a very high bracket next year you might consider a Roth IRA for your 2015 contribution . For the low level of taxes you will pay on that $ 5500 now , you can pull all the gains out tax free when you retire , which may be decades from now .
If your itemized deductions on Schedule A exceed the standard deduction , then you can itemize your deductions and deduct the actual amount . State taxes are included in the itemized deductions ( though excluded from AMT , but at these levels of income that 's irrelevant ) . Thus you can deduct your California State taxes from your Federal income . It is not exactly dollar for dollar , since you have the standard deduction in any case , so essentially you only benefit from the excess of your State taxes over the standard deduction . Keep in mind , when comparing California to Washington , that the State income tax is only one of many items which will make your life more expensive in California . Other items include significantly higher rents ( at least at the tech-centric areas of SF Bay and LA-Orange County ) , higher sales taxes , higher gas prices , etc etc. . But its sunny most of the year so you 've got that .
Contributions to a traditional IRA are treated as ordinary income when they 're withdrawn , as well as the earnings .
Dividends are normally paid in cash , so do n't generally affect your portfolio aside from a slight increase to ' cash ' . You get a check for them , or your broker would deposit the funds into a money-market account for you . There is sometimes an option to re-invest dividends , See Westyfresh 's answer regarding Dividend Re-Investment Plans . As Tom Au described , the dividends are set by the board of directors and announced . Also as he indicated just before the ' record ' date , a stock which pays dividends is worth slightly more ( reflecting the value of the dividend that will be paid to anyone holding the stock on the record date ) and goes down by the dividend amount immediately after that date ( since you 'd now have to hold the stock till the next record date to get a dividend ) In general unless there 's a big change in the landscape ( such as in late 2008 ) most companies pay out about the same dividend each time , and changes to this are sometimes seen by some as ' indicators ' of company health and such news can result in movement in the stock price . When you look at a basic quote on a ticker symbol there is usually a line for Div/yeild which gives the amount of dividend paid per share , and the relative yeild ( as a percentage of the stock price ) . If a company has been paying dividends , this field will have values in it , if a company does not pay a dividend it will be blank or say NA ( depending on where you get the quote ) . This is the easiest way to see if a company pays a dividend or not . for example if you look at this quote for Google , you can see it pays no dividend Now , in terms of telling when and how much of a dividend has been paid , most financial sites have the option when viewing a stock chart to show the dividend payments . If you expand the chart to show at least a year , you can see when and how much was paid in terms of dividends . For example you can see from this chart that MSFT pays dividends once a quarter , and used to pay out 13 cents , but recently changed to 16 cents . if you were to float your mouse over one of those icons it would also give the date the dividend was paid .
Legally speaking , when you convert that bit-coin onto something else , the Israeli Tax Authority will look into the value of that something else , compare it to the original value of the previous something else you used to buy bit-coins ( USD , in your example ) , and charge you capital gain taxes for the difference . According to the Israeli law you 're supposed to pay taxes when selling ( converting the bit-coin to something else ) , and since you 're not using any formal bank or stock broker which will automatically deduct the taxes , you have to pay the taxes yourself . By not doing so you 're committing a tax fraud . The real question you 're asking is whether they 'll come after you . Well , that depends on the amounts . They might . Pay attention : there 's no statute of limitation for tax fraud in Israel . They may come after you in 50 years from now . Another thing to keep in mind : if you used bit-coins to buy something ( services or products of any kind ) , you probably did n't pay the VAT (  "  ) - which is another case of tax fraud on your behalf . PS : I 'm not a lawyer or accountant , so get a professional advice , but I have been dealing with the Tax Authority in Israel , so I 've got a pretty good idea of what the rules are .
You mean to tell me that everyone does n't pay his/her fair share ?! Please say it is n't so . :) Therein lies the welfare state : Tax the rich more heavily to subsidize the poor , and hobble the rich 's ability to do so on their own accord . In any case , though , in the United States , if you make any money whatsoever , that usually counts as income , and can hence be taxed . <URL> . Pretty all-inclusive , is n't it ? Businesses are allowed to deduct expenses to count against their income , but if one has more expenses than income year after year , ( a ) this is the road to financial ruin , and ( b ) the IRS puts an end to the tax losses after enough years of failing to show a profit . So , sure , if a businessperson does n't have any income , then they 're technically using the roads , etc. , " for free , " but unless the businessperson wants to live off the land and the kindness of strangers , he 'd better turn a profit eventually . Then he 'll be taxed .
I do n't think the choice of how you report it is going to be up to you . If you won more than $ 600 from a DFS site then you will be receiving a form from them in January , and that form will dictate how you report it . The form will likely be a 1099-MISC which means you will report it as such . The good news is that with a 1099-MISC they should automatically deduct your entry fees , so for example if you paid $ 1000 to play throughout the year , and won $ 5000 that year , your 1099-MISC should be for $ 4000 . If you were to receive a W-2G form ( Gambling winnings ) , typically this would be for only your winnings , so from the previous example it would be for $ 5000 rather than $ 4000 , and you would have to deduct your $ 1000 yourself . The caveat though is you can only deduct your gambling losses if you itemize ( as opposed to taking the standard deduction ) . If you do itemize , a W-2G is probably preferred because not only can you deduct your losses from DFS , but you would also be able to deduct any other losses you had such as lottery tickets , casino play , etc. . Lastly , if certain conditions are met , ( for example if you use PayPal to get your money and you have more than 200 transactions in a year and you had more than 20K in winnings ) , you could receive a 1099-K form . If you receive this form I 'd recommend discussing with an accountant to help you maximize your deductions as it 's very likely they 'll save you much more than their fee .
This is a question that you want to make sure with a tax expert . It appears based on the IRS documents that you can do so . The question is will the confusing set of documents slow the IRS computers and delay your refund . If you recontribute to a new account , I would even select a new custodian , within the 60 day window this should not be a big deal . If you go beyond the 60 day window it should be fine , just a little more complex to sort out . You should contribute the original amount plus the earnings from the original investment ; Otherwise the earnings from the first account will be taxed . I would also fund the second account by the end of the calendar year to clearly mark the 2nd contribution and one for this year . You normally have until April 15th to contribute to an IRA , but doing so this year will help make sure all the paperwork matches . Please talk with a professional before making the second contribution if you will be beyond the 60 day window .
PayPal is designed to automatically and correctly handle name formatting in Taiwan and other Chinese speaking countries . We are constantly working to improve localization for all PayPal supported countries . In some cases , a name may display as ( first name , last name ) on the PayPal website but this will not affect payment processing or the process for requesting an authorization from a credit/debit card . As an example , here is a screenshot of our sign-up page for Taiwan which shows that we collect the surname first : <URL> To the original poster , the card confirmation charge does not always appear right away . In some cases , it may take a few days for the credit card issuer to show the charge and the associated confirmation code . Please feel free to contact us if you have any questions or need further assistance with the confirmation process . We 're happy to help ! :) <URL> Frank
I gift my daughter stock worth $ 1000 . No tax issue . She sells it for $ 2000 , and has a taxable gain of $ 1000 that shows up on her return . Yes , you need to find out the date of the gift , as that is the date you value the fund for cost basis . The $ 3500 is n't a concern , as the gift seems to have been given well before that . It 's a long term capital gain when you sell it . And , in a delightfully annoying aspect of our code , the dividends get added to basis each year , as you were paying tax on the dividend whether or not you actually received it . Depending on the level of dividends , your basis may very well be as high as the $ 6500 current value . ( pls ask if anything here needs clarification )
My W-2 included additional info so that it was easier to understand : It explained the numbers for Box 1 ( wages tips an other compensation , Box 3 ( Social security wages ) , Box 5 Medicare wages , Box 16 State wages : For box 1 it was Gross pay Less 401K ( D-Box 12 ) Less Medical FSA Less other Cafe Less Cafe 125 HSA ( W-box 12 ) It included the numbers for each cell . Note the number in W Box 12 for the HSA was my contibution plus their contribution . But the number in the calculation of Box 1 was only my contribution .
If your annual salary exceeded the maximum amount subject to Social Security tax for 2013 ( $ 113,700 as per JoeTaxpayer 's comment ) , then it is possible that the last paycheck is what put you over the limit . Thus , part of the salary on the last paycheck had Social Security tax withheld and part did not . As JoeTaxpayer points out , there is no limit on the earnings subject to Medicare tax , and so that amount should not have changed at all .
You do n't . Say you deposited $ 5000 . Then you converted $ 4950 to Roth . You declare $ 4950 as the amount converted and you 're done .
To clarify . APY will always be an annual number . To calculate your APY you use the formulas below with your APR , the applicable compounding frequency , and duration of an entire year . The more frequent the compounding occurs the greater your yield relative to your rate . When you have a maturity period less than a year , the APY is still calculated based on holding for a full year . Assuming a 0.4 % APR , you will receive 0.4 % for the duration of the CD . Generally bank CDs are compounded daily which will help out a bit . You can roughly calculate your return by ( assuming a $ 1,000 deposit and a 3 month duration ) : On such a short time frame the effects of compounding will be negligible . And the published APY can be largely ignored as you will not be holding the CD for a year , unless you buy another three month CD at the same rate after maturity .
I 'd call the IRS to be sure . but if you can unwind this before your taxes are due you wo n't owe the 6 % tax on your excess contribution . Here 's <URL> with this information . ( Under Excess Contribution Tax . ) I could n't find a direct answer to your question . If this is impractical then you can also ( I believe ) contribute $ 25 less than you 're allowed to in 2011 to the appropriate IRA , and you 're clean . You will owe an extra $ 1.50 in taxes , though . But <URL> . They 've been very helpful to me the times I 've called .
Depending on how you view the loan , it could either be considered an Asset or a Liability . Since you are not charging interest , it might seem more intuitive to create an " Assets : Cash Loan " account , and transfer money to &amp; from it ( when you receive payments ) like you would with a bank account . Personally , I prefer to think of all loans as liabilities . Whether it 's a debt which you owe someone , or a balance which someone else owes you , since it 's an ' unsettled ' amount I file it under " Liabilities : Loan " . Either way , you record the initial balance as a debit from your bank , and then record payments as credits back to your primary account . The only way that income or expenses ever gets involved would be if you charged interest ( income ) or if you forgave some or all of the loan ( expense ) at some point in the future .
If the employer included the reimbursement in the taxable wages portion of your w2 then you can take a deduction . This is most likely not the case . If the reimbursement is not included in your taxable wages then just leave the 1098 off your return . You are not entitled to any tax benefit because of it .
end question
start question
How to value employee benefits ?
To fairly compare a comp-only job to a job that offers insurance , get a quote for health insurance . Call your local insurance broker and find out what it would cost . Because if you are n't getting insurance from your employer , you 'll have to get it elsewhere . If you get a quote on an HSA , do n't forget to add in the annual deductible as part of the cost . On the ESPP , I 'd count it as zero . The rationale being that so much of your financial status is tied to your employer that you do n't really want to tie up too much more in company stock . ( I.e. Company hits hard times , stock tanks , and then they lay you off . Double whammy -- both your assets and income . ) But given that I 've only been employed by companies that no longer exist in their original form , my perspective may be warped .
Writing off an asset means saying that you assume its value is zero or close to that . For bookkeeping purposes , you 're saying you do n't think you 'll ever get that money back , directly or indirectly . The company collapsed , the project fizzled out , the crop failed ... Writing down an asset means reducing your estimate of its value , but not to zero . You think there is at least some chance the investment will pay off , or at least will have enough assets / value to cover part of what you paid for it , and this number is your current best guess of what it 's actually worth so that can be reported accurately as part of your own net worth . Same idea , just different degrees .
If your emergency fund is used strictly in the event of a job loss , you may want to factor in your unemployment benefits . But note ! You will not necessarily receive unemployment benefits . In many countries , you are not eligible if you are fired . Additionally , I 've seen people laid off but denied benefits until they spent several months fighting the decision . So , it 's wisest not to count on unemployment benefits . Even if you do , note that they often take a while to kick in . Six to eight weeks in Canada , for example . It is also a good idea to consider what else could cause you to tap into your emergency fund . A death of a spouse or a parent may leave you with $ 10,000 to $ 30,000 in funeral expenses that you have to pay within two weeks , months before any life insurance would kick in . If you own a house , your furnace or hot water tank may fail and need immediate replacement . Generally , you 'd cover these from an emergency fund , though your specific case may be different . There 's obviously an opportunity cost to keeping too much in cash or cash-like investments in your emergency fund , so you 'll want to take that in to consideration as well . My personal opinion is that you should have at least 6 months of living expenses saved up , not counting on any unemployment benefits . You should also have enough to cover the other emergencies such as the ones I raised , though sometimes you can borrow from family for that sort of thing . Beyond 6 months , I 'm willing to factor in benefits , less-liquid investments , etc. .
I 'd ask your professor to explain his/her reasoning . It seems like EAC is more open to hand-waving than NPV . With NPV , you 're evaluating the here and now : adding up all of the cash flows . EAC uses estimated lifespan , estimated maintenance , etc. . However , if you do n't own the asset yet , EAC can be useful because it gives you a framework to calculate expected annual costs of owning the asset . If you do n't have cash-flow figures yet , you obviously ca n't use them .
From an investor 's standpoint , if the value of crude oil increases , economies that are oil dependent become more favourable ( oil companies will be more profitable ) . Therefore , investors will find that country 's currency more attractive in the foreign exchange market .
<URL> have a limit of $ 10K maximum load , as an example . You can not load more than $ 950 per transaction or per 24 hours , i.e. : You need to spend more than 10 days loading it to reach the limit .
We use the PC financial credit card . We switched to PC banking about 8 years ago and have been extremely happy with them . You get points for using their banking services and if you use their credit card you earn points . You can use the points earned for free groceries or purchasing anything at No Frills , Independant and Loblawas Superstores . With the points we 've earned over the years through just our regular banking , we 've purchased a 6 piece patio set , patio swing , tons of free groceries and currently have $ 500 worth of points that we 're using to purchase food and gifts for the Christmas season . You can find out the particulars on their points program throught their webiste at www.pcfinancial.ca
I can say that I got X dollars from an account like " Income : Benefits " ... but where do I credit that money to ? " Expenses : Groceries " Yes does n't feel right , since I never actually spent that money on food , You did , did n't you ? You got food . I 'm guessing there 's an established convention for this already ? Doubt it . Established conventions in accounting are for businesses , and more specifically - public companies . So you can find a GAAP , or IFRS guidelines on how to book benefits ( hint : salary expense ) , but it is not something you may find useful in your own household accounting . Do what is most convenient for you . Since it is a double-booking system - you need to have an account on the other side . does n't feel right ? Add or or whatever . When you do your expense and cash-flow reports - you can exclude both the income and the expense benefits accounts if you track them separately , so that they do n't affect your tracking of the " real " expenses .
No . But . If the provider offers a Roth 401 ( k ) , you should have the ability to convert from your pre-tax side to the Roth side , and pay the tax . The net result should be the same , I believe .
The IRS is n't going to care how you filed for benefits - they 're effectively the high man on the totem pole . The agency that administers the SNAP program is the one who might care . File the 1040 correctly , and then deal with SNAP as you note . Do deal with SNAP , though ; otherwise they might be in trouble if SNAP notices the discrepancy in an audit of their paperwork . Further , SNAP does n't necessarily care here either . SNAP defines a household as the people who live together in a house and share expenses ; a separated couple who neither shared expenses nor lived together would not be treated as a single household , and thus one or both would separately qualify . See <URL> or <URL> for more details ; and ask the state program administrator . It may well be that this has no impact for him/her . The details are complicated though , particularly when it comes to joint assets ( which may still be joint even if they 're otherwise separated ) , so look it over in detail , and talk to the agency to attempt to correct any issues . Note that depending on the exact circumstances , your friend might have another option other than Married Filing Jointly . If the following are true : You file a separate return . A separate return includes a return claiming married filing separately , single , or head of household filing status . You paid more than half the cost of keeping up your home for the tax year . Your spouse did n't live in your home during the last 6 months of the tax year . Your spouse is considered to live in your home even if he or she is temporarily absent due to special circumstances . See Temporary absences , under Qualifying Person , later . Your home was the main home of your child , stepchild , or foster child for more than half the year . ( See Home of qualifying person , under Qualifying Person , later , for rules applying to a child 's birth , death , or temporary absence during the year . ) You must be able to claim an exemption for the child . However , you meet this test if you can not claim the exemption only because the noncustodial parent can claim the child using the rules described in Children of divorced or separated parents ( or parents who live apart ) under Qualifying Child in chapter 3 , or referred to in Support Test for Children of Divorced or Separated Parents ( or Parents Who Live Apart ) under Qualifying Relative in chapter 3 . The general rules for claiming an exemption for a dependent are explained under Exemptions for Dependents in chapter 3 . Then she may file as " Head of Household " , and her ( soon-to-be ) ex would file as " Married Filing Separately " , unless s/he also has dependents which would separately allow filing as Head of Household . See the IRS document on <URL> for more details , and consider consulting a tax advisor , particularly if she qualifies to consult one for free due to lower income .
does it mean uncontrolled severe deflation/inflation is more likely to occur compared to " normal " currencies such as USD , EUR etc ? Look at the chart referenced in the link in your question . It took approximately 50 years for annual production of gold to double from 500 tons to 1000 tons . It took approximately 40 years for annual production to double from 1000 tons to 2000 tons . Compare that to the production of US dollars by the Federal Reserve ( see chart below obtained from <URL> ) . US dollar production doubled in DAYS . Which one do you think will lead to uncontrolled inflation/deflation ? Update : Why did I include a chart of the FED 's balance sheet ? Because this is the way newly printed money is introduced - the FED will purchase something from banks ( mortgage-backed securities , US treasuries , etc. ) with newly printed money . The banks can then loan this money to people who then deposit the money into other banks who loan those deposits to other people and so on . This is how the fractional reserve process expands the money supply . This is why I did not include a chart of the money supply since that is counting the same money multiple times . If I deposited 100 newly minted coins into a bank and that bank proceeded to loan out 80 of my coins where 80 are deposited into another bank who then proceeds to loan out 60 of the coins , and so on ... the production of coins only changed by the initial 100 that I minted - not by the fractional reserve multiple . There are historical examples of inflation with gold and silver as duff has pointed out . None of them come close in magnitude to the inflation experienced with <URL> .
LVR is Loan To Value Ratio . If we are buying a property of $ 100,000 with a loan of $ 75,000 , the LVR is 75 % . It is applicable to India as well . In Indian Context it is typically called Debt Equity Ratio . For most of the bank , if we are buying house of INR25 ,00,000 an LVR of 75 % will be asked by the bank . This means the buyer has to pay 25 % from his own sources .
It sounds like " bonus shares " are the same as a stock dividend . Stock dividends are equivalent to a stock split except for accounting treatment ( good explanation here : <URL> ) . As an investor , the only likely effect of a stock dividend is to make it more complex to keep track of cost basis and do your taxes . There 's no economic effect , it 's just rearranging accounting numbers .
To fairly compare a comp-only job to a job that offers insurance , get a quote for health insurance . Call your local insurance broker and find out what it would cost . Because if you are n't getting insurance from your employer , you 'll have to get it elsewhere . If you get a quote on an HSA , do n't forget to add in the annual deductible as part of the cost . On the ESPP , I 'd count it as zero . The rationale being that so much of your financial status is tied to your employer that you do n't really want to tie up too much more in company stock . ( I.e. Company hits hard times , stock tanks , and then they lay you off . Double whammy -- both your assets and income . ) But given that I 've only been employed by companies that no longer exist in their original form , my perspective may be warped .
You ( and everyone else ) need to pay tax on a quarterly basis . For people employed by companies , this is usually taken care of through withholding , so most people do n't really the notice the need to make this right quarter-by-quarter . Now that you 're self-employed , you 'll need to handle this yourself through the estimated tax payments every quarter . ( It 's possible , for example , to get a refund for being overpaid across the whole year and still have a penalty for being underpaid in a given quarter . ) Your employment earlier in the year does n't really impact this at all , except to the extent that ( a ) you might " max " out for the year , as mentioned below in the last paragraph , or ( b ) you might already have enough withheld so that you do n't actually need to make a payment because your prior overpayment covers ( in full or in part ) your liability for the current quarter . The self-employment tax is basically that you now need to pay both the " employer " half of social security and Medicare taxes in addition to the " employee " half that would have been withheld from your paycheck when employed by someone else . The current total rate ( both halves ) is 12.4 % for social security and 2.9 % for Medicare . Just add those to whatever you estimate your regular income tax to be based on your total self-employment income and make your payment . When you file your Form 1040 , you 'll file Schedule C and break this out into components ( income tax , SS , medicare ) , but for the estimated payment you only worry about the total . If you make over certain amounts of money , the SS stops and the Medicare goes to a different rate , so if you think that might apply to you get the details from IRS publication 15 .
I value my home at slightly below ( say , less 8-10 % ) of comparable , recent sales in my neighborhood . I do this for a couple of reasons : I would n't expect to get the best price at any peak . Wishful thinking . And , Actually realizing any money from a sale would involve real estate commissions , moving fees , legal fees , etc. . I never guess . If I can not find a comparable sale , I leave the home value as-is until there is data .
An option without the vesting period and the price at which one can exercise the option is of not much value . If vesting is determined by board , then at any given point in time they can change the vesting period to say 3 , 5 , 10 years any number . The other aspect is at what price you are allowed to exercise the option , ie if the stock is of value 10 , you may be given an option to buy this at 10 , 20 or 100 . This has to be stated upfront for you to know the real value . On listing if the value is say 80 , then if you have the option to exercise at 10 , or 20 you would make money , else at 100 you loose money and hence choose not to exercise the option . However your having stuck around the company for " x " years in anticipation of making money would go waste . Without a vesting period or the price to exercise the option , they are pretty much meaningless and would depend on the goodwill of the founders
Your bond 's current value reflects interest that has accumulated since the issue date . See , e.g. , <URL> for your bond on the Treasury Direct website . Also on that website , there is a <URL> for determining the current value . Note that , per the first link : Treasury guarantees that an EE Bond will be worth at least its face value when it reaches its original maturity date . If , for some reason , the current value is much less than the face value , it may be worth waiting until the maturity date to take advantage of that guarantee . ( I do n't know whether or not such a discrepancy is possible in practice . ) In summary , you purchased the bond for some purchase price less than the face value . Over time , before the the maturity , the bond gains value beyond the purchase price due to interest . At the maturity date , the value will reflect either : the original purchase price , plus interest , or the face value , whichever is higher . If you cash out before the maturity date , you get the original purchase price plus interest .
The answer is yes . And the reason is if today 's interest rates are lower than the interest rate ( coupon ) at which the bond was issued . The bond 's " lifetime value " is 100 cents on the dollar . That 's the principal repayment that the investor will get on the maturity date . But suppose the bond 's coupon rate is 4 % while today 's interest rate is 3 % . Then , people who bought the bond at 100 would get 4 % on their money , while everyone else was getting 3 % . To compensate , a three year bond would have to rise to almost 103 so that the so-called yield to maturity " would be 3 % . Then there would be a " capital loss " ( from almost 103 to 100 ) that would exactly offset the extra interest , that is 1 % " more " for three years . If today 's interest rates are negative ( as they were from time to time in the 1930s , and in the present decade ) , the " negative " interest rates will prevent the buyer from getting the " lifetime value " ( as defined by the OP ) of principal plus interest over the original life of the bond . This happens in a " flight to quality " situation , where people are willing to take a ( small ) capital loss on Treasuries in order to prevent a large possible loss from bank failures like those that took place in 2008 .
<URL> says you have to use fair market value . You can not simply use a depreciated value . You should attempt to determine what people normally pay for comparable items , and be prepared to defend your determination with evidence in the event of an audit .
end question
start question
Why are US treasury bonds priced in 32nds ?
It used to be that stocks were traded in fractions too . It was only recently that they all were converted over into <URL> . I think you 're basically right about being a holdover <URL> : These early stockbrokers [ who were trying to create the NYSE ] looked to Europe for a model to build their system on and decided to base it on the system of Spain . This was largely due to the fact that the U.S. dollar 's value had been based on the value of the Spanish real . The real was the Spanish silver dollar and was divided into eight parts . This evolved from the method of counting on the hands , similar to the decimal system . The difference was that the decimal system used the thumbs as part of the number while this other system used the thumbs to denote the total of the four fingers . Therefore , a person would count to four on one hand and then use the thumb to indicate a total while they counted on the other hand . Two thumbs equaled eight . The real could be broken into two , four or eight parts , giving birth to the term pieces of eight .
Some reimbursements are taxable and some are not , that depends on the type of reimbursement and the reporting required . If the reimbursement is from an accountable plan and for qualified expenses - it is not taxable . Otherwise it is . See the relevant section of <URL> for details .
Without having researched that particular fund , I believe that they bought bonds in the past , say five years ago , interest rates were higher . As the interest rates have dropped , those bonds became more valuable , so their price rose . As a result what you are seeing is not just the direct interest rate that bonds have , but also the boost that bonds get when interest rates fall . Of course , in the future , if interest rates should rise , then you 'll see the opposite effect where bond funds will deliver lower returns .
A suitable mix of index funds IS a great option if you do n't want to spend a lot of time and effort micromanaging your money . If you find amusement in pushing numbers around , you may be able to do better . Notice : MAY . If you have multiple millions , you can hire someone of that sort to push the numbers around for you . They may do better for you . Notice : MAY . And remember that part of your additional gains have to go to pay them , which means they have to do better just to be worth having on staff in the first place . If you have more than that , there are some options available which smaller investors really ca n't get involved in . As one example : If you have enough money that you can lose $ 100K without especially noticing , you can get involved in venture capital and the like which require a large commitment AND are higher-risk but can yield higher returns . Anyone who 's dismissing index funds as " only for beginners " is being foolish . But recommending them to beginners in particular is a good thing since they let you get into the market with fairly predictable risk/benefits without needing a massive investment in education and time .
Withdrawals from 401k and ( non-Roth ) IRA accounts , assuming all contributions were pre-tax as is probably typical , are taxed as ordinary income . This includes money from all sources : contributions , interest , capital gains , etc. . This means that Treasury bonds have no tax advantage over any other investment when they are held within a 401k or IRA . Since Treasury bonds pay lower interest rates than other bonds and in these accounts are taxed the same way , they are usually considered inappropriate for 401k 's and IRA ( for other than " safety " concerns ) .
If the bonds are in a safe deposit box which is not rented to you and to which you do not possess the key anyway , and you do not have a letter or other document from your grandmother in your possession saying that she has given you the bonds ( which you can collect from a safe deposit box in Bank X in City Y in State Z ) , you are SOL . The bonds are part of her estate and do not belong to you . I doubt that any bank or even the Treasury will cash bonds registered in your grandmother 's name knowing only the numbers , or even the actual bonds themselves , unless you have a letter in your possession from your grandmother saying that she has gifted the bonds to you . You might be able to follow the procedure for replacing lost US Savings Bonds if you have a letter and the bond numbers , but now we are getting into legal details that are inappropriate for this forum . I do n't like to say this , but your story does not pass the smell test . In view of the revised question , I would say that @DJClayworth 's comment on the main question is probably the best course to pursue . You could try looking at Form PD F 1048 ( available through the TreasuryDirect web site ) which allows you to ask the Bureau of Public Debt to re-issue lost or destroyed bonds . But the Form may ask you to affirm under penalty of perjury that all the statements you make on the form are true , and you have stated that the bonds are neither lost nor destroyed , just inconvenient to retrieve , and you do n't really need the bonds to be replaced for the purpose of holding them as investments , possibly in your personal safe deposit box , but to cash them in .
I have several as well , ( acquired the same way as you ) and I am happy with the idea . They are very stable and that is the reason they pay so little . I do n't think you can get a low risk and medium ( or high ) return . The interest does reset every six months so you do get a bit of the market , should the fed set interest rates higher , you bonds will eventually reflect that . Bonds and Certificates of Deposit are just one element of your investment portfolio . Put the money you ca n't lose into bonds , the money you can into higher risk stocks . Bonds are great from our grandparent 's perspective because they are NOT going to lose value . ( My grandparents were depression era folks who wanted that stability ) They are trivial to give as gifts . Most other investment forms require a heavy bit more of legal work I would think .
I am going to answer my own question . First of all , if your broker trades bonds , then you can find their historical rates there . Next , if you do n't have a broker that trades bonds go to FINRA 's bond center at <URL>
How do treasury auctions work ? First , the US government will issue a notice indicating how much money it would like to borrow . Below is an actual announcement issued by the treasury department that it will be having an auction to raise $ 23 billion . The announcement indicates the date of the auction ( March 8th , 2011 in the example ) as well as deadlines for competitive ( 11:30 AM ) and noncompetitive ( 11:00 AM ) bids . If you would like to participate in the auction then your bids must be submitted before these times . Competitive Bid - the bidder specifies the maximum price they will pay for the security . All treasuries are priced in $ 100 so bids are submitted in terms of buying a security that will repay the owner $ 100 when the security matures ( $ 100 is the face or par value ) . Noncompetitive Bid - the bidder does not specify any maximum price requirement . These bidders are first in line to be issued a bill but they will get whatever price is determined at auction . There is a limit of $ 5 million that can be submitted as a noncompetitive bid per bidder per auction . For competitive bids any one customer can be awarded a maximum of 35 % of the total offering . In order to better illustrate the mechanics of the auction let 's go back to the example . The table below is a hypothetical list of bids for the $ 23 billion being issued . The bids include the total amount the bidder is willing to purchase as well as the maximum price the bidder will pay based on a $ 100 par value note . Bid 1 : $ 5 billion , max price : do n't care ( noncompete ) Bid 2 : $ 10 billion , max price : do n't care ( noncompete ) Bid 3 : $ 5 billion , max price : $ 98 Bid 4 : $ 5 billion , max price : $ 95 Bid 5 : $ 10 billion , max price : $ 92 Bid 6 : $ 5 billion , max price : $ 90 Notice there is a total of $ 40 billion in bids . The auction is only for $ 23 billion . This means some bids will go unfilled . The ratio between bids and the amount of the auction is called the bid-to-cover ration . For our example it is 1.74 ( $ 40 / $ 23 ) . A high bid-to-cover ratio indicates a strong demand for the bonds since there are a lot of bidders . A low ratio indicates weak demand . A ratio under 2.0 is considered weak . The bids are filled in the following manner : All the noncompetitive bids are filled first . This means Bid 1 and Bid 2 will be filled first . This fills $ 15 of the $ 23 billion leaving $ 8 billion left . Once all the noncompetitive bids are filled then the competitive bids are filled next starting from the highest max price and proceeding to the lowest until the issue is completely fulfilled . This means Bid 3 will be filled in full . The remaining $ 3 billion will be issued to Bid 4 . For this auction Bid 5 and Bid 6 will go unfilled . Since Bid 4 was the last accepted competitive bid , its max price will be the price that all ( both competitive and noncompetitive ) bidders will receive . This price will also determine the yield for this auction which is 5.26 % ( 100-95/95 * 100 ) . Results of our example auction : Bid 1 : $ 5 billion , max price : noncompetitive , All $ 5 billion filled at $ 95 Bid 2 : $ 10 billion , max price : noncompetitive , All $ 10 billion filled at $ 95 Bid 3 : $ 5 billion , max price : $ 98 , All $ 5 billion filled at $ 95 Bid 4 : $ 5 billion , max price : $ 95 , Only $ 3 billion filled at $ 95 Bid 5 : $ 10 billion , max price : $ 92 , Not filled Bid 6 : $ 5 billion , max price : $ 90 , Not filled Once the auction is completed the treasury will post the results of the auction . Below is the actual results of the auction . There are some additional items that are reported from the auction : High Rate : This is the highest yield ( or the lowest price ) that was accepted at the auction . For our example this would be $ 95 . Allotted at High : This is the percentage of the total that was filled at the highest accepted yield ( or lowest accepted price ) . For our example , the last $ 3 billion we filled was at the lowest price so our allotment at high would be $ 3 / $ 23 = 13 % . Price : Price as determined by the auction . Median Rate : Half of the competitive bids were submitted below this rate while the other half were above . Low Rate : The lowest yield ( or highest price ) submitted for the competitive bids . The announcement also shows the breakdown of the amount of bids submitted noncompetitively versus competitively and how much was rewarded for those same categories . There is an entry in the middle of the results announcement listed as SOMA . This stands for System Open Market Account . This represents treasuries that are held by the Federal Reserve . If the Federal Reserve has treasuries that are maturing then it is expected that they will use the proceeds from those maturing treasuries to buy new treasuries . For our example auction the FED had no bills maturing at the time . If they did then the FED would also get the same price determined at the auction . Here is an <URL> I wrote with a little more detail on the auction process . I 've included my sources at the end of the article . As for treasuries being a " safe " investment ? I '
Can I sell section 54EC infra bonds before maturity ? That would depend on the specific bond , some can be sold before maturity but after the specified lock-in period . Some are non-negotiable / non-transferable and can not be sold before maturity The prospectus mentions that bonds in physical form can be transferred to another person or entity . Are there financial institutions that offer to buy these bonds ? How do I find them ? Banks will not do this . Any leading broker can help assist you in finding a buyer . Generally you may not find a good deal and the buyer does n't get any tax benefit and would buy this only for returns and hence may want to buy this cheaper . The broker can assist you with the process , it involves sending of the physical certificate along with a letter and ownership details of new buyer to the registrar of the respective entity . A new certificate will be issued to the new owner .
<URL> references a product at least in terms of being a bond fund that exists , Target Date Bond ETFs . While the article is a bit old as it came out 7 months ago , " AMT Free Municipal Bonds by iShares " would be the product to explore and see if the ticker exists . <URL> may be the product you want assuming a 5 year time frame as the final date referenced in the article is Aug. 31 , 2018 approximately . Remember to do your own research but this would seem to be what you wanted .
Emancipation Day falls on the 16th , but is being observed on the 15th this year . This is observed only in Washington , DC , therefore the IRS is closed on the 15th . This means the next business day is the 18th . Note that Maine and Massachusetts residents have until the 19th to file because there is a state holiday ( Patriot 's Day ) on April 18th . <URL>
GNMA Bonds are <URL> , aka a bond backed by mortgages , aka a mortgage backed security . Generally you would be subject to both federal and state taxes on whatever proceeds you receive , if any . Generally the assigned rating and risk category is a result of a guarantee on the principle and interest payments of these bonds . The guarantee is offered by the Federal Housing Administration and the Department of Veterans Affairs . This guarantee should make the bonds relatively safe but will cause the bond to have a relatively low yield . Whether or not they 're a " good investment " is for you to decide .
According to Wikipedia , <URL> mature in 1 year or less to a fixed face value : Treasury bills ( or T-Bills ) mature in one year or less . Regular weekly T-Bills are commonly issued with maturity dates of 28 days ( or 4 weeks , about a month ) , 91 days ( or 13 weeks , about 3 months ) , 182 days ( or 26 weeks , about 6 months ) , and 364 days ( or 52 weeks , about 1 year ) . Treasury bills are sold by single-price auctions held weekly . The T-bills ( as Wikipedia says , like <URL> ) are actually sold at a discount to their face value and mature to their face value . They do not return any interest before the date of maturity . Because the amount earned is fixed at purchase , " return " is a more accurate term than " rate " when referring to a specific T-bill . The " rate " is the difference between this return and the discount value you purchased it at . So , yes , your rate of return is guaranteed . T-notes ( 1-10 year ) and T-bonds ( 20-30 year ) also have an interest rate guaranteed , but have <URL> ( usually every 6 months ) , paying out a fixed amount of interest on the principal . ( See more info on the <URL> . ) Because those bonds are not compounding the interest it pays out , but instead paying out every 6 months , you 'd have to purchase new securities to create a compound return , changing your rate of return over time slightly as the rates for new treasury securities changes .
What is a good bank to use for storing my pay ? Preferrably one that has free student accounts . Can I save money from my paychecks directly to a Canadian bank Otherwise , can I connect my bank account to my Canadian account online ? Any ( almost ... ) bank in the US has free college checking accounts . If the bank you entered does n't - exit , and step into the one next door which most likely will . The big names - Wells Fargo , Bank Of America , Chase , Bank of the West , Union Bank , Citi etc - all have it . Also , check your local credit union . Do I need any ID to open a bank account ? I have Canadian citizenship and a J-1 visa Bring your passport and a student card/driving license ( usually 2 ID 's required ) . What form of money should I take with me ? Cash ? Should I apply for a debit card ? Can I use my Canadian credit card for purchasing anything in the states ? ( Canadian dollar is stronger than US dollar currently , so this could be to my advantage ? ) There 's some fuss going on about debit cards right now . Some big banks ( Bank of America , notably ) decided to charge fees for using it . Check it , most of the banks are not charging fees , and as far as I know none of the credit unions are charging . So same thing - if they charge fees for debit card - step out and move on to the next one down the street . Using debit card is pretty convenient , cash is useful for small amount and in places that do n't accept cards . If you 're asking about how to move money from Canada - check with your local ( Canadian ) bank about the conversion rates and fees for transfers , check cashing , ATM , card swipes , etc - and see which one is best for you . When I moved large amounts of money across the border , I chose wire transfer because it was the cheapest , but for small amounts many times during the period of your stay it may be more expensive . You can definitely use your Canadian credit/debit card in the States , you 'll be charged some fee by your credit card company , and of course the conversion rate . How much tax does I have to pay at the end of my internship ? Let 's assume one is earning $ 5,000 per month plus a one time $ 5,000 housing stipend , all before taxes . Will I be taxed again by the Canadian government ? $ 5K for internship ? Wow ... You need to talk to a tax specialist , there 's probably some treaty between the US and Canada on that , and keep in mind that the State of California taxes your income as well . What are some other tips I can use to save money in the California ? California is a very big place . If you live in SF - you 'll save a lot by using the MUNI , if your internship is in LA - consider buying an old clunker if you want to go somewhere . If you 're in SD - just enjoy the weather , you wo n't get it in Canada . You 'll probably want a " pay as you go " wireless phone plan . If your Canadian phone is unlocked GSM - you can go to any AT&amp;T or T-Mobile store and get a pre-paid SIM for free . Otherwise , get a prepaid phone at any groceries store . It will definitely be cheaper than paying roaming charges to your Canadian provider . You can look at my <URL> ( I 'm writing from California ) , I accumulated a bunch of saving tips there over the years I 'm writing it .
The main appeal of an I-bond is that the return rate is indexed for inflation . The rate is a combination of a fixed rate ( which is generally based on prevailing interest rates , and is currently VERY low ) and floating portion which is based on the current rate of inflation and adjusted every 6 months . . that inflation rate is where the current return on the I-bonds is coming from right now , and was due to a pretty fortuitous timing of when they set those rates and a sort of inflation hiccup that happened around the same time . BTW if the inflation rate is zero , or negative at the next repricing period for those bonds , the yeild would drop to zero percent . ( ibonds will never have a negative yeild ) TIPS ( Treasury Inflation Protected Securities ) are similar in many ways to I-Bonds and are another means of gaining inflation protection . The mechanics are a little different , but the net effect still amounts to a base rate , plus an adjustment for inflation . See this <URL> to understand the differences between them . To gain bit of perspective you might want to view <URL> . People who have been really happy with I-bonds , are generally those who bought them when they had higher base rates than the current ones . I-Bonds are not ' tax free ' however they can be ' tax deferred ' . ( depends on what you do with the interest ) This means they can grow in value tax free ( giving you a higher rate of return than if you had to pay taxes every year on the interest ) but you will still end up paying taxes down the road ( very similar to a 401K , or standard IRA ) . . BTW , this means there is ZERO value in putting these inside a IRA or 401K ( TIPS might be a better choice in that case ) Are they for you ? Depends on what you think will happen with Inflation . There are voices in the market that insist that all the money being pumped into the system right now to foster a recovery will cause insane crazy run-away inflation down the road . ( others feel that will only happen if the fed is n't on the ball and does n't raise rates fast enough once things turn around ) . It should be noted that many such talking-heads have been forcasting runaway inflation very soon for a few years how , and it 's yet to come true . Anyone that bet on high inflation 2 years ago , has been mostly disappointed so far . To the extent you fear inflation might consume a lot of your hard earned funds or just want a Hedge against inflation , then i-bonds and TIPS are an excellent way to mitigate that risk . However , with a zero base rate right now , if you invest in these , you are basically betting everything on inflation , and if it stays low , you 'll be sorry . ( however if it spikes , you 'll be sitting pretty ) If you feel the current Fed leadership are ' on the ball ' and wo n't let inflation get out of control , do n't feel any need to ' hedge ' that bet , then you are likely to want to invest somewhere else .
It 's not uniform at all . Some states already stabilized the real estate prices , other keep losing value . Florida , Nevada and California were probably hit the most . In some parts of New York City prices never really went down ( IMHO ) . Here is just one of the maps showing foreclosure rates for 2010 : <URL>
For your girlfriend ( congrats to you both on the coming new baby ! ) , full-time mothers often become work-at-home moms using skills that they may have utilized in the outside-the-home workforce before they made the decision to stay home . <URL> can be a place where some do this , but there are many articles out there pointing out that it also does n't work for many people . I tried to earn some side money there and did n't make a dime . For those with a niche product , though , it can really work . A book on working at home as a mother ( from a Christian perspective with specifically religious overtones , so not the right book for someone who would not appreciate that aspect ) is <URL> . There are secular resources , such as the website <URL> . From everything I 've ever heard in researching the topic of becoming a WAHM ( work at home mother ) , it 's a challenging but rewarding lifestyle . Note that according to one WAHM I know , only contract work is reliable enough to be depended on for family obligations ( this is true of any part time work ) . Freelancing will have so many ups and downs that you ca n't bank on it to , say , pay the mortgage unless you really get going . Ramit Sethi of I Will Teach You To Be Rich focuses a lot on <URL> with ideas that might benefit both of you . His angle is that of working on top of an existing job , so it may specifically help you think of how to take your programming skills ( or a hobby you have besides programming ) and translate them into a career .
Rates are a complex field . I will assume that context wise you are talking about rates for a individual saver quantities . The two rates you are asking about are personal bank saving account and exchange traded bonds . The points you want to compare between them are . Fixed vs Floating Interest Rate Term structure/Maturity Counter-party risk Fixed vs Floating Rate In general , a bond is what we called a fixed rate instrument . This means that for the life of the product , it will yield a fixed percentage of its face value at a regular period . Baring any extreme circumstances ( such as bankruptcy ) , no external factors will change the payment schedule on a bond . Conversely , by placing your money into a bank , you will accrue interest rate at some value related to some published interest rate . For example , if tomorrow , the Treasury decided to try to stimulate the economy , they could slash the interest rate , this would directly affect the rate at which your savings account would accrue interest . Maturity In general , a bond has a maturity date , where the capital is finally released from the bond . Until such date , you can not access the money directly ( you can however sell the bond , but it would likely be at a discounted value ) . Therefore , in general , you can not get access to the money whenever you want it . As for a saving account , normally one can access the funds instantly , if not within a few days . Counter Party Risk This seems to the reason people seem to be focusing on . For each bond , the issuer of the bond is obligated to pay you the holder of the bond fixed payments at an interval , plus the capital at the maturity . However , obligation does not mean guarantee . If the issuer , is unable to make the payments , they may go into bankruptcy to avoid paying you . There are companies setup to advise people on the likelihood of each bond issuer on their ability to honour their debts . For example Standard and Poor issues a rating which goes all the way up to AAA for bonds . Recently , many sovereign countries have lost their AAA rating from S&amp;P . Meaning that S&amp;P feel that the possibility of these countries going bankrupt is non-zero . Conversely , banks may also be unable to give you your money when requested . In the US , the reserve requirements means that at any one time it only holds 10 % of the money it owes to its customers . This can mean that if every customer turns up to the bank to demand their money , that bank would be unable to pay . This situation is called a Bank Run . During such a situation , the bank would likely collapse and default . In many modern countries , the government put into place guarantees on the first xxx amount in saving accounts , but otherwise , your savings could be lost . Conclusion There are many complex reasons to choose one instrument over another ( including some I have avoided ) , even if at the outset , they could appear to have the same rates .
Look for options with distant expiration dates and volatile underlying stocks .
end question
start question
I just moved to the United States . What should I do to develop a good credit rating , fast ?
There really is n't a way to do it that much more quickly . Some major factors to help you build credit : 1 . Pay on time : Late payments will kill your rating . 2 . Keep accounts open a long time : The average age of your credit accounts is a big factor . 3 . Keep the balances on each credit account low as a % of your line . Try not to go over 50 % of your credit limit , even if you pay in full every month . 4 . Open different kinds of loan accounts ( credit cards , mortgage , auto , etc. ) 5 . Having a lot of new credit accounts hurts you , unfortunately . Luckily # 1 and # 2 , the ones you have the most immediate control over , make up over 55 % of your total score .
First and foremost you should do more research on credit cards and what everything means . As expressed by others the balance transfer fee is not what you think it is . Credit cards can be great , they can also quickly erode your credit score and your standing . So understanding the basics is VERY important . The credit card that is right for you should have the following criteria . Have no annual fee . Be accepted where you plan to use it . Provide the best perks for your situation . The first two points should be straight forward , you should not have to pay a CC company for the privilege to use their card . They should pay you through perks and rewards . It should also be a CC that can be used for what you need it for . If you travel internationally a lot and the CC you choose only works within the US then what good is it ? The third point is where you need to ask yourself what you do a lot and if a CC can offer rewards through travel miles , or cash back or other bonuses based on your lifestyle . The transfer fee is not what you think it is , people who already are carrying debt on another credit card and would like to transfer that debt to another credit card would be interested in finding a fee or a low % . People do this to get a batter rate or to get away from a bad credit card . If one charges 28 % and another charges 13 % , well it makes sense to transfer existing debt over to the 13 % provided they do n't crush you on fees . Since you have no credit card debt ( assumption based on the fact you want to build your credit ) , you should ask yourself for what purpose and how often do you plan to use the credit card . Would this card be just for emergencies , and wont be used on daily purchases then a credit card that offers 3 % cash back on gasoline purchases is not for you . If you however love to travel and plan to use your credit card for a lot of purchases OR have a few large purchases ( insurance , tuition etc. ) then get a credit card that provides rewards like miles . It really comes down to you and your situation . There are numerous websites dedicated to the best credit card for any situation . The final thing I will say is what I mentioned at the beginning , its important , CC 's can be a tool to establish and improve your credit worthiness , they can also be a tool to destroy your credit worthiness , so be careful and make smart choices on what you use your card for . A credit score is like a mountain , it requires a slow and steady discipline to reach the top , but one misstep and that credit score can tumble quickly .
If you are n't familiar with <URL> , it 's worth looking at . This is a mechanism using a Canadian brokerage account to simultaneously execute one stock trade in CAD and one in USD . The link I provided claims that it only starts potentially making sense somewhere in the 10,000 + range .
In the US , for most mortgages : You have a right to have PMI cancelled when you reach 80 % LTV . The bank must cancel PMI for you at 77-78 % LTV , unless you are behind on payments . The bank must cancel PMI at the midpoint of the loan amortization . The rules for how you compute LTV vary . Usually it 's based with current value . With FHA loans , you can not have the property re-assessed -- LTV is based on the original loan amortization . Note that in the wake of the housing crisis , assessors have suddenly become very conservative with valuations , so be prepared to fight over the valuation .
It sounds like you want to lock-up your money in something relatively safe , and relatively hard to touch . You may want to consider a <URL> ( <URL> I found in a quick search ) - from what I see it 's the closest thing to a US <URL> . You wo n't get much back , but if you pick a 5-year term , you ca n't spend it * easily . Other options might be to buy an <URL> , or get into <URL> s - but that will depend on your risk comfort . Also - to add from the comment <URL> left - be sure to pay off any high-interest debts : especially if they 're on a credit card , it will help you later on . * easily . . you can withdraw , but there 're generally penalties
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
The two most important things you need to do in order to build great credit is 1 ) Pay each bill on time or ahead of time . 2 ) Keep the balances on your credit cards as close to zero as you possibly can . Doing these two things will keep your credit score as high as it can possibly be . Also try sigining up to receive email notices to financial blogs like <URL> they always have good tips on how to improve your credit , repair it , or build it , among lots of other things .
First , forget about your credit rating . That will come back once you 're out of default and back on your feet . Keep in mind that the write-off is considered taxable income , so you 'll be owing the IRS and your State ( if its an income tax state ) money on that . I do n't think that you can ignore the second question . If you 're going to end up robbing Peter to pay Paul , I do n't see the point of trading an unsecured , dischargeable debt for another debt and a non-dischargeable IRS obligation . If you ca n't make payments on $ 17k , you ca n't make payments on $ 12k either . Note that when the IRS does n't get paid , they seize assets from your accounts and garnish your wages , and charge hefty fees for the privilege . If I were in your situation and had the ability to make payments , I would try to get written agreements from the unsecured creditors to do the following : Take you out of default status and get rid of penalty interest . ( ie . start paying 15 % instead of the 30 % or more that you are paying now ) Commit to making a specific payment . Freeze your credit limit to prevent the accrual of new fees . You have a very short window to make this deal with BoA . If they are ready to cut you a 30 % deal , the next step will be selling it to collections . If I were unable to get those types of settlements or make the payments , I 'd immediately start looking into bankruptcy and getting on with my life . A Chapter 13 bankruptcy will stop the accrual of interest and penalties , stop the collection calls and leave you with $ 0 debt in 36 months . If you go this route , try to keep one credit line that you 've had for a few years ( like a store credit card ) open ... this will make things easier later on .
how is the money the FDIC has collected Fees collected from the banks : The FDIC receives no Congressional appropriations -- it is funded by premiums that banks and thrift institutions pay for deposit insurance coverage and from earnings on investments in U.S. Treasury securities . <URL> They also use the proceeds from liquidating the assets of failed banks to make payouts . Are there country specific agencies with a similar mission ? <URL> <URL> ( Mexico ) <URL> ( UK ) not quite like the FDIC You 'll have to search for others yourself . :) Most importantly , are there any examples of a similar system that has failed ? As the Mythbusters say , " failure is always an option . " There is a statement on FDIC 's website to the effect that they are backed by the " full faith and credit " of the U.S. government . That said , the FDIC maintains its own fund to make insurance payouts . Granted , in the shakiness of the 2008-2009 financial crisis they did start waving a red flag about their realistic ability to cover their obligation . Practically speaking , the government will likely step in if necessary . <URL> regarding a propsed revamp of the UK 's FSCS should be of general interest to you on this topic , though it does not answer the question of failed systems . ( Well , as far as I know . I have only skimmed the article . )
Did that twice . You do n't have to do it . I was told that mortgage company expects you to live there at least a year before you can convert it to an investment . No idea how that is enforced . But i am sure if you lived there for a few years and made your payments and keep making the payments you 'll be fine . All they care about is that you make your payments .
The U.S. requires money transfer services to be licensed under 31 USC 5330 in addition to any applicable laws at the state level . According to multiple sources online , including the thread referenced by MD-Tech 's answer , OkPay either can not or will not get a license , so they are out . I dug on this a bit more because I thought it was interesting , and OkPay has other issues with U.S. and other regulators related to its interaction with Bitcoins , which themselves are a hot potato for regulation right now and may explain the licensing problem . It seems to also be facing regulatory pressure in other countries , by the way , so it 's not strictly a problem they face in the U.S. Just for whatever reason , the problem is greater here . Some interesting summary points : With mounting pressure on online money exchanges from US regulators , payments processor OKPay has announced that it is suspending processing for all Bitcoin exchanges , including industry leader Mt. Gox . ... Earlier this month , the US Department of Homeland Security seized Mt. Gox 's account with mobile payment processor Dwolla , on allegations that the account was in violation of US Code 18 USC  1960 by operating an " unlicensed money transmitting business . " Just where the Bitcoin market falls under US law is unclear , because the legality of Bitcoin transactions has yet to be tried in court and law enforcement has refused to comment on ongoing investigations , such as the Dwolla case . <URL> In March , the US Treasury said any firms dealing in the virtual currency would be considered " money services businesses " just like any other , which means they must hand over transaction information to the government and work to prevent money laundering . <URL> In the UK , it apparently has also had trouble with banking partners ( quoting a OkPay official regarding changing bank providers ) : The UK bank that we used before did not make a final decision on whether to handle transactions in favour of crypto-currencies or not . Therefore the compliance department of the bank asked us to restrict such transfers . This apparently allowed them to reverse a policy in the UK : OKPAY 's policy shift comes just months after it stipulated that GBP users check a box , verifying that their funds would not be spent on cryptocurrency , a feature that further incited users . <URL> I had n't heard of this company prior to your question , but having done some research , I tend to think that at least the part of this quote about language , attributed to a user , is true : OKPAY are quite paranoid about AML and another problem is that their support people seem to be very bad at English , so their replies are often hard to understand . Their support are also slow [ sic ] . However in my experience they are an honest company . I found at least one case where rumors that the entire company were going to shut down were traced back to a poorly translated message issued by the company . Again , I know only what I read just now about this company , but it looked like there were a few red flags - the problems with the US probably not being the most important . This type of service is probably part of the future , but I 'm not sure that I 'd send money through it now in its current state or organization and regulation .
The Homebuyers Tax Credit was unrelated to whether or not a mortgage was part of the purchase . You will have no issue with this credit if you refinance .
My original plan was to wait for the next economic downturn and invest in index funds . These funds have historically yielded 6-7 % annually when entered at any given time , but maybe around 8-9 % annually when entered during a recession . These numbers have been adjusted for inflation . Questions or comments on this strategy ? Educate yourself as index funds are merely a strategy that could be applied to various asset classes such as US Large-cap value stocks , Emerging Market stocks , Real Estate Investment Trusts , US Health Care stocks , Short-term bonds , and many other possibilities . Could you be more specific about which funds you meant as there is some great work by Fama and French on the returns of various asset classes over time . What about a Roth IRA ? Mutual fund ? Roth IRA is a type of account and not an investment in itself , so while I think it is a good idea to have Roth IRA , I would highly advise researching the ins and outs of this before assuming you can invest in one . You do realize that index funds are just a special type of mutual fund , right ? It is also worth noting that there are a few kinds of mutual funds : Open-end , exchange-traded and closed-end . Which kind did you mean ? What should I do with my money until the market hits another recession ? Economies have recessions , markets have ups and downs . I 'd highly consider forming a real strategy rather than think , " Oh let 's toss it into an index fund until I need the money , " as that seems like a recipe for disaster . Figure out what long-term financial goals do you have in mind , how OK are you with risk as if the market goes down for more than a few years straight , are you OK with seeing those savings be cut in half or worse ?
I would not be concerned about the impact to your credit rating . You already have an <URL> , and the temporary change to your utilization will have minimal impact to your score . If you really need to make this $ 2500 purchase and you have the money in the bank to pay for it , I would not recommend borrowing this money . Only put it on the credit card if you plan on paying it off in full without paying interest . Let me ask you this : Why do you want to keep this $ 2500 in the bank ? It certainly is n't earning you anything significant . My guess is that you 'd like to keep it there for an emergency . Well , is this $ 2500 purchase an emergency ? If it is necessary , then spend the money . If not , then save up the money until you have enough to make the purchase . It does n't make sense to keep money for an emergency in the bank , but then when one comes up , to leave the money in the bank and pay interest on your emergency purchase . If you make this emergency purchase and another emergency comes up , you can always ( if necessary ) borrow the money at that time . It does n't make sense to borrow money before you need it . That having been said , I would encourage you to build up your emergency fund so that you have enough money in there to handle things like this without completely depleting your savings account . 3 to 6 months of expenses is the general recommendation for your emergency fund . Then if something unplanned comes up , you 'll have the money in the bank without having to borrow and pay interest .
First thing to consider is that getting your hands on an IPO is very difficult unless you have some serious clout . This might help a bit in that department ( <URL> ) However , assuming you accept all that risk and requirements , YES - you can buy stocks of any kind in the US even if you are a foreigner . There are no laws prohibiting investment/buying in the US stock market . What you need is to get an online trading account from a registered brokerage house in the US . Once you are registered , you can buy whatever that is offered .
As always with investments , it depends on your risk adversity . I do n't want to repeat the content of hundreds of recommendations here , so just the nutshell : ( For qualified investments , ) the more risk you are willing to take , the more returns you 'll get . The upper end is the mutual funds and share market , where you have long-term expectations of 8 - 10 % ( and corresponding risks of maybe + / - 50 % per year ) , the lower end is a CD , where you can expect little to no interest , corresponding to little to no risk . Investing in shares/funds is not ' better ' than investing in CDs , it is different . Not everybody likes financial roller-coasters , and some people mainly consider the high risk , which gives them sleepless nights ; while others just consider the expected high long-term gains as all that counts . Find out what your personal risk adversity is , and then pick accordingly .
This is from the PBS Frontline show " Secret History of the Credit Card . " Getting rid of one card wo n't immediately trash your score , nor will it be by the full impact ( 15 % ) of credit history . If there 's no fee , I 'd buy gas once per quarter with it . If there is a fee , I 'd check my FICO score and if I can afford to lose 20 or so points for a time , I 'd go for it .
If you just want to have high score because you 've heard its useful , then what you need to do is be smart about your credit , and never abuse it . Paying for money you do n't need ( AKA taking a loan just to boost your credit score ) is not being smart . Its wasteful , and unless you need to show creditors in the very near future that you 're worthy of their attention ( i.e. : plan on a mortgage within a year ) , it is unnecessary . It is true that credit cards affect your score at a slower pace , though ( in positive direction , that is ) . One of the first articles I wrote on my blog was <URL> . Read it , if you have a credit card - doing this will help you increase your credit score . If you do n't have a credit card - get one , for free . I wrote another couple of articles on this : <URL> , and why you want it <URL> .
The score you should be concerned with is the FICO score , generally the best mortgage rates require a 720 FICO ( I have heard of some wanting as high as a 740 FICO ) . If you 're middle score is greater than 740 I would n't worry to much about trying to improve yours scores . If not there are some easy things you can do to increase your score besides the obvious of paying your bills on time . Reduce your the percent of credit you are using on revolving accounts ( both total and on individual lines ) . As far as FICO scores are concerned owing $ 500 on a credit card with a $ 500 limit is much worse than owing $ 5000 on a card with a $ 20000 limit . You want to reduce the overall percent of credit you are using as well as the percent of each credit line that you are using , ideally you want to stay under ~ 20 % anything over 50 % is going to have a real negative impact on your score . If you pay your cards off in full every month you can either not use them the 2 months before you apply for a mortgage or simply pay them off before the statement date ( not the due date ) , because most credit card companies report the amount due on the statement if the amount due is 0 or very low then it will look like you have little/no utilization on that account . Another thing to consider with utilization is that credit cards with " no preset spending limit " are generally bad for your score because they report your highest balance as your credit limit meaning you will generally show very high utilization on these cards even if you do n't charge much on them . Utilization on installment accounts wo n't count against your credit utilization but the monthly payments do count against your debt to income ratio for the loan . Of course you probably also want to minimize the number of credit inquiries in the 12 months before you apply for the mortgage . A couple is n't going to hurt anything but if you have a whole bunch it may cause issues even though the effect on your FICO is pretty minimal . New credit inquiries also leads to new accounts which will lower your average age of accounts , but also lower your average utilization ( practically a wash imo ) . It is important to note the only score that really matters is the FICO score the rest are rarely used by banks and as such are essentially worthless and have little to no relation to your actual FICO score . I should also mention that most of the numbers in this post are informed speculation the FICO scoring formula is a secret so exact thresholds are impossible to come by .
Yes , it can be a good idea to close unused credit cards . I am going to give some reasons why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts , and then I will talk about why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea . Why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts " I 'd like to close the cards . " That is reason enough . Simplifying your financial life is a good thing . Fewer accounts let you focus your energy on the accounts that you actually use . Unused accounts still need to be monitored for fraud . You mentioned that you have high credit card balances that you are carrying . This may indicate that you have trouble using credit responsibly , and having more credit available to you might be a temptation for you . If these unused cards have annual fees , keeping them open will cost money . Unused cards sometimes get closed by the bank due to inactivity . As a result , the advice often given is that , in addition to not closing them , you are supposed to charge something to it every month . This , of course , takes more of your time and energy to worry about , as well as giving you another monthly bill to pay . Why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea to close unused accounts Other answers will tell you that it may hurt your credit score for two reasons : it would increase your utilization and lower your average account age . Before we talk about the validity of these two points , we need to discuss the importance of the credit score . Depending on what your credit score currently is , these actions may have minimal impact on your life . If you are in the mid 700 's or higher , <URL> , and closing these cards will likely not impact anything for you in a significant way . If you are n't that high in your score yet , do you have an immediate need for a high score ? Are you planning on getting more credit cards , or take out any more loans ? I would suggest that , since you have credit card debt , you should n't be taking out any new loans until you get that cleaned up . So your score in the mean time is not very important . Are you currently working on eliminating this credit card debt ? If so , your utilization number will improve , even after you close these accounts , when you get those paid off . Utilization has only a temporary effect on your score ; when your utilization improves , your score improves immediately . Your average account age may or may not improve when you close these accounts , depending on how old they are compared to the accounts you are leaving open . However , the impact of this might not be as much as you think . I realize that this advice is different from other answers , or other things that you may read online . But in my own life , I do a lot of things that are supposedly bad for the credit score : I only have two credit cards , ages 2.5 and 1.5 years . ( I closed my other cards when I got these . ) My typical monthly utilization is around 25 % on these cards , although I pay off the balance in full each month , never paying interest . I have no car loan anymore , and my mortgage is only 4 months old . No other debt . Despite those " terrible " credit practices , my credit score is very high . Conclusion Make your payments on time , get out of debt , and your score will be fine . Do n't keep unwanted accounts open just because someone told you that you should .
end question
start question
Did the rules for filing a 1099-MISC change this year ?
There was a <URL> , included in the Health Care act commonly known as " ObamaCare " . Basically , it is much more required to fill out a 1099 , with the idea that increased revenues produced by such will help pay for Health Care . This <URL> , as it was very unpopular . Still , there has been increased awareness of 1099 forms as a result . It has been the case that for services provided , a 1099 form should be filled out , if the services exceed $ 600 . The official IRS instructions can be found <URL> .
All data for a single adult in tax year 2010 . Roth IRA Full contribution allowed for AGI under $ 105K Partial contribution allowed for AGI between $ 105K and $ 120K No contribution allowed for AGI over $ 120K 401K IRS allows up to $ 16,500 but varies based on employer and plan details . Roth 401k IRS allows up to $ 16,500 , but varies based on employer and plan details . Traditional IRA and your employer offers a 401k Phased out at $ 66,000 . Traditional IRA and your employer does NOT offer a 401k No income/AGI limit . Your full IRA contribution ( up to $ 5K ) can be made and deducted from your taxes similar to a 401k . So , here are your options . If you have a 401k at work , you could max that out . If you make close to $ 120K , you could reduce your AGI enough to contribute to a Roth IRA . If you do not have a 401k at work , you could contribute to a Traditional IRA and deduct the $ 5K from your AGI similar to how a 401k works . Other than that , I think you are looking at investing outside of a retirement plan which means more flexibility , but no tax advantage .
There is no rule that says the dealer has to honor that deal , nor is there any that says he/she wo n't . However , if you are thinking of financing through though the dealership they are likely to honor the deal . They PREFER you finance it . If you finance it through the dealer the salesman just got TWO sales ( a car and a loan ) and probably gets a commission on both . If you finance it through a third party it makes no difference to the dealer , it is still a cash deal to them because even though you pay off the car loan over years , the bank pays them immediately in full .
According to IRS Pub 502 : You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for transportation to another city if the trip is primarily for , and essential to , receiving medical services . You may be able to include up to $ 50 for each night for each person . You can include lodging for a person traveling with the person receiving the medical care . For example , if a parent is traveling with a sick child , up to $ 100 per night can be included as a medical expense for lodging . Meals are not included . See Lodging , earlier . You can not include in medical expenses a trip or vacation taken merely for a change in environment , improvement of morale , or general improvement of health , even if the trip is made on the advice of a doctor . However , see Medical Conferences , earlier . My interpretation of this would be the following test : 1 . Is the trip primarily for the procedure ? According to your statements , yes . 2 . Is the trip essential to receiving the care ? According to your statements , yes , because you can save a lot of money by doing this compared to having just the procedure done in the US . ( Or maybe you can not afford it otherwise . ) It appears to me that you can deduct the cost of the procedure , the airfare , and then $ 100/night . If it were me I would document a few different quotes from dentists local to you showing that it is in fact more expensive like you said it is , and file that away with your receipts . It also would be a good idea to ask the dentist in Costa Rica how much just the procedure is by itself , and then the airfare too , because you 'll likely need that in your calculation of how much to deduct . Also , make sure the itemized cost of the procedure itself is " reasonable " . If the trip costs 10K , and they tell you that the deductible parts equal $ 9,999 , and then $ 1 is for food , entertainment , etc , that is likely not reasonable in the eyes of an auditor . Also , in general , remember that just because you 're saving money and getting A + B ( B for bonus ) instead of just A , that does n't mean that B is deductible . One has nothing to do with the other . Lastly , for deductions of this magnitude , I 'd highly recommend talking to an accountant , because I am not one . ( And if you do , please report back . I 'm curious to know where they agree/disagree with me . )
You report it as an expense against the 1099 income when you do your taxes . You will only be taxed on the amount after the lawyers fees ( but if it cost you more in lawyers fees than you recover in damages , the loss is not deductible ) . Be sure to keep documentation of the lawyers bill and the contract . Compensatory damages are generally not taxable at all . You can see <URL> for more information on that .
Yes , asking your employer paying you W-2 wages to withhold additional income tax is a convenient way of paying taxes on self-employment income without the hassle of making quarterly payments of estimated tax . This is particularly useful if your self-employment income starts ( or increases dramatically ) towards the end of the year when you already have missed some quarterly payment deadlines . Taxes withheld are regarded as being withheld uniformly through the year even if there was a big increase in withholding in the last few months . That is , one-fourth of the total amount withheld is deemed to have been paid in timely fashion as the quarterly installment due , and so one can avoid penalties for underpayment of tax in earlier quarterly installments . Be sure to include enough to cover the Social Security tax and Medicare tax owed by you on your self-employment income ( both the employer 's share and the employee 's share ) in your calculations when you ask your employer to withhold additional income tax from your wages . As you say , it all goes into the same bucket on your Form 1040 .
Cheques issued by Canadian Government agencies do not expire . Any financial institution one has a relationship with should be willing to cash the cheque . Update : If she does not have the cheque she should contact her nearest CRA office about canceling the original and re-issuing another . Specifically in that order , since she would want to avoid this <URL> where someone else cashed the first cheque and then the recipient ended up in a dispute where the CRA claimed the refund was issued twice and demanded the money back with interest . Good luck !
Form 10-K is the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 's ( SEC ) name and mandated filing format for an annual report to shareholders , codifying the <URL> that public companies listed on a U.S. exchange must annually disclose and file with the SEC . In the U.K. , similar concerns governing publicly traded companies fall under the UK <URL> , and the Financial Services Authority ( FSA ) that came before it . The FCA 's handbook has one part on <URL> , specifically <URL> , which mandates publication of annual financial reports . Brief quote : Publication of annual financial reports An issuer [ whose transferable securities are admitted to trading and whose home state is the U.K. ] must make public its annual financial report at the latest four months after the end of each financial year . An issuer must ensure that its annual financial report remains publicly available for at least five years . Content of annual financial reports The annual financial report must include : the audited financial statements ; a management report ; and responsibility statements . [ ... goes on to describe contents in more detail ... ] According to <URL> , such reports must be published using a Regulatory Information Service ( RIS ) ( e.g. , an approved news wire service ) as well as made available to the public , typically on the company web site . Shareholders may opt to receive a hard copy notification that the information has been published .
The question is whether it is the same plan or a different plan . The provider is essentially servicing the plan . So if it is the same plan - the loan should remain as is and the new provider should be servicing it . If they 're rolling over from the old plan into the new plan - then you have to finish paying the loan . I 'd go with this to the payroll/benefits officer in the company , as it is unlikely that they in fact created a whole new plan . It is more likely that they 're just switching providers for their plan and the new company does n't want to service a loan it did n't get the originating fees for . Talk to your company payroll people to sort it out , as since you 're not quitting your job and the switch is because of their own decision - they should not be calling on your loan .
That 's true for the tax return . The T1135 has some late penalties . These only apply if you had to file one , some/most people do n't . <URL>
Gold has specific properties that make it more useful than most metals for monetary and decorative purposes : It 's extremely unreactive , so it does n't corrode , rust , or otherwise tarnish . So gold , once pure , stays that way , unless alloyed . It 's very difficult to dissolve gold with acids - aqua regia , formed by mixing nitric acid and hydrochloric acid , must be used to dissolve gold ( or platinum ) . It 's easily identified because it 's both extremely dense - almost twice as dense as lead - and unusually soft - my understanding is that the mythological bite test for gold coins actually works , although is rather hard on the teeth . It is one of the most if not the most malleable and ductile metal . This means it is relatively easy to work , not prone to cracking , can be bent , formed , or pounded flat , and is resistant to ' work hardening ' . The combination of the above makes it highly useful to produce shiny intricately-crafted objects that last . It was easily mined , and often found in a pure or near-pure state ( i.e. not an oxide ) both freely available in rivers and in seams found in mines . It 's rare , which means that possessing it becomes a signal of social capital , which itself increases its value . Gold seems to have been recoverable by ancient peoples in a way that , for example , platinum was not ; uses of gold abound throughout history , while uses of platinum before 1500 or so are rare . This would seem to add gold 's advantage as a display of wealth , since you need to actually know you 're looking at a rare material .
If you 're under audit - you should get a proper representation . I.e. : EA or CPA licensed in California and experienced with the FTB audit representation . There 's a penalty on failure to file form 1099 , but it is with the IRS , not the FTB . If I remember correctly , it 's something like $ 50 or $ 100 per instance . Technically they can disqualify deductions claiming you paid under the table and no taxes were paid on the other side , however I doubt they 'd do it in a case of simple omission of filing 1099 forms . Check with your licensed tax adviser . Keep in mind that for the IRS 2011 is now closed , since the 3-year statute of limitations has passed . For California the statute is 4 years , and you 're almost at the end of it . However since you 're already under audit they may ask you to agree to extend it .
It 's simply supply and demand . First , demand : If you 're an importer trying to buy from overseas , you 'll need foreign currency , maybe Euros . Or if you want to make a trip to Europe you 'll need to buy Euros . Or if you 're a speculator and think the USD will fall in value , you 'll probably buy Euros . Unless there 's someone willing to sell you Euros for dollars , you ca n't get any . There are millions of people trying to exchange currency all over the world . If more want to buy USD , than that demand will positively influence the price of the USD ( as measured in Euros ) . If more people want to buy Euros , well , vice versa . There are so many of these transactions globally , and the number of people and the nature of these transactions change so continuously , that the prices ( exchange rates ) for these currencies fluctuate continuously and smoothly . Demand is also impacted by what people want to buy and how much they want to buy it . If people generally want to invest their savings in stocks instead of dollars , i.e. , if lots of people are attempting to buy stocks ( by exchanging their dollars for stock ) , then the demand for the dollar is lower and the demand for stocks is higher . When the stock market crashes , you 'll often see a spike in the exchange rate for the dollar , because people are trying to exchange stocks for dollars ( this represents a lot of demand for dollars ) . Then there 's " Supply : " It may seem like there are a fixed number of bills out there , or that supply only changes when Bernanke prints money , but there 's actually a lot more to it than that . If you 're coming from Europe and want to buy some USD from the bank , well , how much USD does the bank " have " and what does it mean for them to have money ? The bank gets money from depositors , or from lenders . If one person puts money in a deposit account , and then the bank borrows that money from the account and lends it to a home buyer in the form of a mortgage , the same dollar is being used by two people . The home buyer might use that money to hire a carpenter , and the carpenter might put the dollar back into a bank account , and the same dollar might get lent out again . In economics this is called the " multiplier effect . " The full supply of money being used ends up becoming harder to calculate with this kind of debt and re-lending . Since money is something used and needed for conducting of transactions , the number of transactions being conducted ( sometimes on credit ) affects the " supply " of money . Demand and supply blur a bit when you consider people who hoard cash . If I fear the stock market , I might keep all my money in dollars . This takes cash away from companies who could invest it , takes the cash out of the pool of money being used for transactions , and leaves it waiting under my mattress . You could think of my hoarding as a type of demand for currency , or you could think of it as a reduction in the supply of currency available to conduct transactions . The full picture can be a bit more complicated , if you look at every way currencies are used globally , with swaps and various exchange contracts and futures , but this gives the basic story of where prices come from , that they are not set by some price fixer but are driven by market forces . The bank just facilitates transactions . If the last price ( exchange rate ) is 1.2 Dollars per Euro , and the bank gets more requests to buy USD for Euros than Euros for USD , it adjusts the rate downwards until the buying pressure is even . If the USD gets more expensive , at some point fewer people will want to buy it ( or want to buy products from the US that cost USD ) . The bank maintains a spread ( like buy for 1.19 and sell for 1.21 ) so it can take a profit . You should think of currency like any other commodity , and consider purchases for currency as a form of barter . The value of currency is merely a convention , but it works . The currency is needed in transactions , so it maintains value in this global market of bartering goods/services and other currencies . As supply and demand for this and other commodities/goods/services fluctuate , so does the quantity of any particular currency necessary to conduct any of these transactions . A official " basket of goods " and the price of those goods is used to determine consumer price indexes / inflation etc. . The official price of this particular basket of goods is not a fundamental driver of exchange rates on a day to day basis .
HSA accounts come with various rules intended to ensure that the pre-tax money you have opted to put into your HSA account is indeed used for appropriate purposes . Most employers do n't handle these accounts in-house but contract with a company or bank who offers to take care of the details and the necessary accounting : the money is simply sent to the bank , and it is the bank that is responsible for ensuring that the money is indeed used appropriately . Now , if you say that you want Wells Fargo ( to pick another bank as an example ) to handle your HSA account , the employer will likely need to have a contract with Wells Fargo too , and Wells Fargo will charge you fees to handle the account also . Whether you will be any happier with Wells Fargo 's fees for a one-off HSA account versus Chase 's fees where a ( smaller ) bulk rate might be charged is something that you should find out before approaching your employer with a request to have Wells Fargo handle your HSA account .
Technically filing fee is probably a " <URL> " , but yes - its a kind of an expense . The yearly recurring fee is an expense .
The service they provided is Triage , which is also what you did . The medical staff at any Hospital/ER/Urgent Care have to decide who gets seen first and what level of care is appropriate for that patient based on the medical situation . In general if the medical care is either beyond the beyond the scope of the Urgent Care , or it is likely to result in an overnight stay they will either send you to a hospital or call an ambulance for you . The Urgent Care has to bill because some portion of their resources ( people and equipment ) were focus on evaluating your daughter . In some cases the diagnoses takes seconds , in other cases they may perform a test or two before being able to determine . I would approach the insurance company . Under the rule of some policies fees for urgent care and ERs are waived or reduced if the situation results in hospital stay , or surgery , or some other elevated care level . If ultimately the insurance company wo n't budge , make sure that they do count this bill when determining your deductible and out-of-pocket amount for the year .
From <URL> - What are the eligibility requirements for a business to establish a SEP-IRA ? Almost any type of business is eligible to establish a SEP-IRA , from self-employed individuals to multi-person corporations ( including sole proprietors , partnerships , S and C corporations , and limited liability companies [ LLCs ] ) , tax-exempt organizations , and government agencies . What are the contribution limits ? You may contribute up to 25 % of compensation ( 20 % if you 're self-employed3 ) or $ 49,000 for 2011 and $ 50,000 for 2012 , whichever is less . If we set the PC aside , you and the son have an LLC renting office space , this addresses the ability of the LLC to offer the retirement account .
For starters , you could have pointed out to the company that the <URL> is only for nonresidents , and that F1 resident aliens are not exempt from FICA . But ultimately , the responsibility for deducting FICA taxes , and liability for not paying them , lies with the employer . If the government comes after anyone for the taxes , it will be the company , not you , and then the company may separately make arrangements for you to pay them back . Publication 15 <URL> : Collecting underwithheld taxes from employees . If you [ the company ] withheld no income , social security , or Medicare taxes or less than the correct amount from an employee 's wages , you can make it up from later pay to that employee . But you are the one who owes the underpayment . Reimbursement is a matter for settlement between you and the employee . In fact , I know of no mechanism for you to " pay FICA tax " on company wages on your own even if you wanted to .
If both spousal units are US citizens , they have unlimited transfer ability , no gift tax issue .
The answer is no . The " deadline " is called such for a reason . The only case where I have seen receipts issued after the deadline but for the prior year is when the financial institution made a mistake . Even then there is the burden of proof that a mistake was indeed made . The good news is you do n't lose your RRSP contribution room ; it carries forward indefinitely . Perhaps in a later year it can again be used to best effect . Interestingly , RRSP contribution deductions can also be carried forward ; i.e. make a contribution this year , but only deduct it in a later year . Sadly , not backwards . The point here , though , is you are not required to deduct your contribution on your 2010 income tax return , either . Young people just starting out sometimes make contributions but defer deduction until they are in a higher tax bracket later .
end question
start question
Company is late in paying my corporate credit card statement - will it hurt my credit ?
After doing some investigating , my employers contract with the credit card company has a clause that basically specifies that despite my name being on the credit card , and bills being sent to me , all liability is on the company . Additionally , the employer reserves the right to garnish wages in the event of a balance on the card . So it looks like it wo n't affect my credit score . I appreciate all of the advice .
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
It all depends on the merchant . When you charge your card the information goes through but it waits for the merchant to send the info/confirm the charge before it shows up on your online activity . For example : I use Intuit to accept CC payments . When I charge an Amex the info is sent to Amex on the spot which is why your credit limit updates immediately but Amex then waits for a confirmation . Intuit actually handles the entire process which is probably how all CC processing services work . When you use your debit card in a debit transaction you are withdrawing cash from your checking account , which is in part why debit transactions do not have the same security as credit . Another note about debit cards and referring to mhoran_psprep comment - this is because you are using your debit card as a credit transaction , many bank cards offer this and it can come with added benefits . See - <URL>
I wrote <URL> some time ago . The answer is yes , this helps the credit score , but this factor , age of accounts , is pretty minimal . Grabbing deals , as you did , I 'm actually down to a " C " for this part of my score , but still maintain a 770 score .
Do n't cancel a card then apply for a new one from the same place . Ask The bank if you can switch to a different card program . If you are a good customer they will do so willingly . It keeps your account as an active customer . I have noticed that in the last few years the bank has been adamant that I should witch to a different program . When it is to my advantage I have done so . The only thing that changes is the words on the card , account number , expiration date and security code . There is no hit to my credit score . In fact with all the data breaches in the last few years every one of my card has undergone an account number change anyway .
Why do you care if it 's " legal " ? If you are concerned about the security implications and do n't want to do it , then do n't do it . If the company wo n't accept your deposits without it , then go to another investment company . There are hundreds of them out there . I have never , ever had someone ask for a scanned image of my credit card , and I 've done business with at least half a dozen investment companies , so this is not a standard industry practice . You have at your disposal a protection far stronger than the ability to bring some sort of legal complaint : You can take your business elsewhere . Doing that does n't require hiring a lawyer or going to court or anything . You just do it . All that said , there are ways to avoid creating much additional security risk . I presume you 've already given them your name , address , card number , and security code over the phone or through their website , so you 've trusted them with this information , and if hackers or the NSA wanted to snoop on your private information , they could have done it then . Okay , a web page might have used https and thus been encrypted while an email is not . So three solutions : ( a ) If they provide an upload on an https page , use that and you have no more security risk than when you originally entered this information . ( b ) Put the scanned image into an encrypted file before emailing , like say an encrypted PDF , or encrypt the image file with some other software , and then send them the password in a separate email . ( c ) You can get fairly decent security by sending the front and back of the card in two separate emails sent at different times . Then a hacker would have to intercept both and be able to connect them to each other . BTW I would n't really worry about the NSA intercepting such emails . I presume that if they want access to your credit card account , they have easier ways to accomplish that than figuring out this unusual system . Unless they have some specific reason to target you or this investment company , they 're probably not searching for images of credit cards in emails .
US bank deposits over $ 10K only need to be reported to FinCEN ( Financial Crimes Enforcement Network - a bureau of the US Department of Treasury ) if the deposits are made in cash or other money instruments where the source can not be traced ( money orders , traveler checks , etc ) . Regular checks and wires do n't need to be reported because there is a clear bank trail of where the money came from . If your family member is giving you money personally ( not from a business ) from a bank account which is outside of the US , then you only need to <URL> . Note , you would need to report that regardless of whether the money was deposited into your US bank account , or paid directly to your credit cards on your behalf , and there are stiff penalties if you play games to try to avoid reporting requirements . Neither deposit method would trigger any taxable income for the scenario you described .
This very much depends how you use that second line of credit and what your current credit is . If you max it out and then do not pay then it will hurt your credit . If you max it out and pay the minimum but currently have a low credit score it will help . If you already have a 700 + rating then it will hurt it . If you Never use it then it will have little impact on your rating but could cause problems if your available credit exceeds 50 % of your income . If you use it regularly but pay it off every month then it should improve your credit rating . There are of course many more combinations buy you can probably infer the impact based on these cases . Your credit score is based on your likely hood of being profitable to a creditor should they issue you credit . This is based on your history of your ability to manage your credit . Having more credit and managing it well shows that you have a history of being responsible with greater sums of money available . If you use the card responsibly now then you are more likely to continue that trend than someone with a history of irresponsibility . Having a line but not using it is not a good thing . It costs the creditor money for you to have an account . If you never use that account then you are not showing that you can use the account responsibly so if you are just going to throw the card in a safe and never access it then you are better off not getting the card in the first place .
The math depends on your average bill , days before it 's due , and interest you 'd earn . Say you have a $ 2000 bill each month . At 1 % , there 's an annual $ 20 or 40 cents per week you 'd save by delaying the payment . If you pay on line and can hit the due date dead on , no reason to pay sooner . But if you risk the mail being late , the late fee and interest will negate the savings on a hundred months of last minute payments . Hardly worth the risk , IMHO . Edit - to clarify , the delayed payment with the above numbers saves the 40 cents or about $ 5/yr . scale it up with higher average balances or with a higher return on your savings account .
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
It costs money to pull credit information , and there 's a record of who requested the info . And hard pulls are only a temporary , short-term ding on your score . Basically , if someone wants to make trouble , there are better ways to do so .
From what I understand , the answer is no . Banking systems and credit reporting services are different from country to country , each has their own rules and way of doing things , and I 'm under the impression that neither really talks to one another except in the case of sending money ( in which case there are other things involved , the least of which being conversion ) . Note that , although not the greatest example , as an American living in Japan , the banks here are totally different than those in the States . Banks in one location know nothing of my credit rating in the other , and moreover would not trust it or even care . ( Multinational banks like Citibank may be an exception though and is worth looking into . )
The are several issues you need to consider : The rate is not guaranteed to be fixed . If you are even one day late the interest rate can jump to 24 % . Minimum Payment . Most credit cards expect you to pay 2 % per month . That may make you monthly payment to the credit card more than you loan payment There is no going back . If you want to switch back to a student loan you ca n't . This will be a cash advance/balance transfer . Understand all the fees associated with the transfer . Can you get a get a credit line big enough ? many people owe 10K to 50K in loans . Tax implications ? Forgiveness programs . Some employers will forgive parts of the loan , or if you work in public service for X years they forgive some of the loan . They will not view the credit card debt the same way .
Magstripe : No . ( And maybe not even that much . ) Chip : Gods only know , but I doubt it . The purpose of the chip is to provide secure authentication of the card . It has no reason to do more than that .
Cash is king . PIN-based debit transactions are cheap . In terms of credit cards , a regular ( ie . not a gold card ) with no rewards has the lowest rates . Bigger merchants with lots of card volume likely have better deals that make the differences less pronounced .
The short answer is that the longterm impact to your credit score is negligible . The long answer is that if you open 4 or 5 new cards in a month your score will decrease from the credit inquiries and from a decrease in your average age of accounts . The damage really is pretty minor 20-30 points off your FICO on the high end ( the more old accounts you have the smaller the effect is ) and temporary after a year you will be close to your original score . The only time I would worry about the effects opening a bunch of accounts is if you are planning on getting a mortgage in the next year even then a couple of cards probably wo n't hurt unless you are within a couple months of when you get the mortgage . For reference I had 7 or 8 new accounts within the past year and my FICO was still good enough to get the best rate on my mortgage . This is all based on my own personal experience , I have opened 5-15 new cards a year for bonuses and 0 % offers for the past 5 years or so and my FICO score varies between 740 and 770 .
No . Higher credit limit is good for your credit score . It 's a good sign that the credit card company thinks you are low credit risk . Especially if they are not pulling your credit reports , enjoy the higher credit limit . Keep in mind that in general the higher your total credit line , the lower your debt , hence the lower the " utilization " , the better it is for your credit score . See this <URL> and this <URL> .
There is a benefit to using it , but you only need to make 1-2 charges a year per card to get the benefit . That is enough to keep the account considered active and help your credit history length . In your situation I 'd say buy a lunch/dinner on each card a few times a year and stop using them until you have all your cards down to the point where you can pay them all off each month .
To confirm : you say you have credit card debt of $ 18,000 with min . repayment of $ 466.06 , plus on top of this you are also paying off a car loan and another personal loan . From my calculations if your monthly interest on your credit card is $ 237 , the interest on your credit card should be about 15.8 % p.a. Is this correct ? Balance Transfer If you did a balance transfer of your $ 18,000 to a new credit card with 0 % for 14 months and keep your repayments the same ( $ 466 ) you would have saved yourself a bit over $ 3020 in interest over those 14 months . Your credit card balance after 14 months would be about $ 11,471 ( instead of $ 14,476 with your current situation ) . If your interest after the 14 months went back to 15.8 % you would be able to pay the remaining $ 11,471 in 2.5 more years ( keeping repayments at $ 466 ) , saving 10 months off your repayments and a total of $ 4,781 in interest over 3 years and 8 months . The main emphasis here is that you are able to keep your repayments at least the same so you are able to pay off the debt quicker , and that your interest rate on the new credit card after the 14 months interest free is not more than your current interest rate of 15.8 % . Things you should be careful about if you take this path : make sure the new credit card has no hidden fees ( read the PDS carefully ) . make sure the new credit card interest rate is not more than your current interest rate after the interest free period . make sure you keep paying at least your current minimum repayments you are paying now and if you can reduce other expenses then increase these payments even more to save even more interest and save even more time paying off the debt . Stop any new spending on the credit card . Debt Consolidation In regards to a Debt Consolidation for your personal loan and credit card ( and possibly your car loan ) into a single lower interest rate loan can be a good idea , but there are some pitfalls you should consider . Manly , if you are taking out a loan with a lower interest rate but a longer term to pay it off , you may end up paying less in monthly repayments but will end up paying more interest in the long run . If you do take this course of action try to keep your term to no longer than your current debt 's terms , and try to keep your repayments as high as possible to pay the debt off as soon as possible and reduce any interest you have to pay . As you already have you credit card and personal loan with <URL> talk to them to see what kind of deal they can give you . Again be wary of the fine print and read the PDS of any products you are thinking of getting . Refer to <URL> website for more valuable information you should consider before taking out any debt consolidation . Other Action You Can Take If you are finding that the repayments are really getting out of hand and no one will help you with any debt consolidation or reducing your interest rates on your debts , as a last resort you can apply for a <URL> . But be very careful as this is an alternative to bankruptcy , and like bankruptcy a debt agreement will appear on your credit file for seven years and your name will be listed on the National Personal Insolvency Index forever . Further Assistance and Help If you have trouble reading any PDS , or want further information or help regarding any issues I have raised or any other part of your financial situation you can contact <URL> . They provide a free and confidential service that provides education and information on financial and lifestyle issues to all Australians .
Some banks ( Chase bank is one of them ) do differentiate between " credit limit " and " credit access line " . A " credit limit " is a hard limit which you can not go over , whereas a " credit access line " is the maximum amount you can revolve between statements , but you can still charge more than your access limit in any one statement . For example , if your credit limit is $ 5,000 , and you have charged $ 4,995 in a billing cycle , and now try to buy something for $ 6 , it will be declined . But if your credit access line is $ 5,000 , that same $ 6 charge would go through . Perhaps charges of $ 500 over your limit might go through as well . When it comes time to pay your bill , your minimum payment will be all overages plus your normal minimum payment as if your credit was completely maxed out . Pros : You can overspend in a month if you need to . Cons : If you are close to maxed out and are carrying a balance each month , your minimum payment could be higher than you are used to . Most banks do n't tell you what your true hard limit actually is , so once you are over the limit you never actually know if your card is going to be denied or not .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between Term and Whole Life insurance ?
Whole life insurance accumulates a cash value on a pre-tax basis . With a paid-up policy , you make payments until a particular age ( usually 65 or 70 ) , at which point you are insured for the rest of your life or a very old age like 120 . You can also access this pool of money via loans while you are still alive , but you reduce your benefit until you repay the loans . This may be advantageous if you have a high net worth . Also , if you own a business or farm , a permanent policy may be desirable if the transfer of your property to heirs is likely to generate alot of transactional costs like taxes . Nowadays there are probably better ways to do that too . Whole life/universal life is a waste of money 95 % + of the time . An example , my wife and I were recently offered open-enrollment ( no medical exam ) insurance policies our employers in New York . We 're in our early 30 's . I bought a term policy paying about $ 400k which costs $ 19/mo . My wife was offered a permanent policy that pays $ 100k which costs $ 83/mo , and would have a cash value of $ 35k at age 65 . If you invested the $ 60/mo difference between those policies and earned 5 % / year with 30 % taxes on the gains , you 'd have over $ 40k with 4x more coverage .
" Cleared " means that the transaction is settled at the bank/merchant . An example would be when you pay a credit card bill , the bank will acknowledge receipt of your payment at some point . " Reconciled " means that you 've verified the account against your records . In this case , you want to verify your future dated transactions against the actual statement received from the bank/merchant .
Michael McGowan 's answer is correct . The HDHP is like conventional insurance -- it is not like a " health care plan " that we 're all used to . I.e. you do n't want to have it pay out -- if it pays out , something bad has happened to you . ( Just like you hope to never make a claim on your homeowner 's , disability , or AD&amp;D insurance -- that means something bad happened to you . ) There are minor exceptions -- some HDHPs may cover preventive care , immunizations , etc to some extent . The bonus in the case of the HDHP is that you get to put money to cover the deductible into a tax deferred account . The HSA is effectively a self insurance fund with the HDHP as backup . Here 's a concrete example . Say you have an HDHP with a $ 2500 deductible . The monthly premium is $ 500 . You put $ 3000 into your HSA . Scenario 1 : You remain mostly healthy throughout the year . You have a single doctor 's visit , the doctor 's office submits a claim to your insurance . The insurance does n't pay because you have n't met your deductible , and you get a bill for $ 150 . You write the doctor a check for $ 150 out of your HSA . Here , you 've spent $ 6000 on your HDHP premiums , contributed $ 3000 to your HSA , and spent $ 150 of that on health care . At the end of the year , your HSA balance is $ 2850 . In the following year , assume you plan to contribute another $ 3000 to your HSA . You can increase your deductible on the HDHP to $ 5000 ( since you 'll have $ 6000 in your HSA to cover out of pocket costs ) and your monthly premium might go down to $ 400 . Scenario 2 : You are hospitalized for a week . The hospital submits a $ 15000 claim to your insurance . The insurance pays $ 12500 since your deductible is met after $ 2500 . The hospital sends you a bill for $ 2500 for the balance . You write a check to the hospital out of your HSA . Again , you 've spent $ 6000 on your HDHP premiums and contributed $ 3000 to your HSA . At the end of the year , your HSA balance is $ 500 . Scenario 3 : You are hospitalized for two days in December 2011 , and then again for two days in January 2012 . Your deductible reset on January 1 , 2012 . The hospital submits two claims to your insurance : one in 2011 for $ 5000 and one in 2012 for $ 5000 . The insurance company pays $ 2500 on the first one and you get a bill for the other $ 2500 . Same thing for the second one -- you 've got to meet the deductible all over again . You write the hospital a check from your HSA to pay the first one . Then you 've only got $ 500 left in your HSA . But you were planning to make another $ 3000 HSA contribution for 2012 anyway , so you make the contribution , write a $ 2500 check to pay the second bill , and you 've now got a balance of $ 1000 in your HSA -- and since you 've met the deductible for 2012 you should have no more out of pocket expenses . ( Assuming your plan does n't have copays . )
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
In most companies , a fund and a portfolio mean the same thing ; therefore a fund manager and portfolio manager are the same role . The difference between a portfolio manager and a trader ( where exists ) is as follows : Portfolio manager 's job is to decide on the best contents ( holdings ) in the portfolio that would accomplish the portfolio 's stated objective within stated constraints ( e.g. make the best possible return while keeping the risk under a specified level ) . Trader 's job at a buy-side institution is to basically execute the trades necessary to change the portfolio holdings from their current state to whatever state portfolio managers decided to achieve . As a matter of fact , at some smaller buy-side firms ( especially fixed income ) , there ARE no separate trader positions , and portfolio managers do both jobs . A trader 's job is to execute the required trades so that the transaction costs are minimized and the PnL is maximized by buying as low as possible and selling as high as possible ( e.g. for a simple example dumping a large chunk of a certain stock all at once would depress the stock price so you would make less money as your average sell price goes down ) . Trader 's job at a sell-side institution is more involved , as the trader is also responsible for making money for the firm via his trades , e.g. he may trade securities specifically for the purpose of making the money off the trade as opposed to the purpose of achieving desired portfolio composition .
I worked for an insurance company for a long time in the United States , but we handled foreign risk as well . In short , there 's nothing generally illegal about doing it , although I 'd add that there are many types of insurance and here in the United States insurance is regulated by states . So it 's really not an overstatement to say that there are thousands of different insurance laws just in our country alone ( 50 states * N number of policy types ) . From an insurance company point of view : Just because you have two brokerages does n't mean you are n't backed by the same insurance company . Rarely are you actually dealing with your " insurance company " , generally you 're just dealing with a broker . Tom and Frank might be two different brokers , but the policies you buy from them are both placed with the same insurance company ( ie : the building with the money that pays the claims ) . As such , the insurance company requires it to be written into the policies that there is no other coverage . Often if a policy allows for multiple coverage , it will require that the other policy ( ies ) pay first . Insurance is often structured into tiers and there are <URL> features as well , complicating exactly where your " insurance " is getting paid from . So even if you have two different brokers with two different insurance companies , the reinsurance for both of those might trace back to the same pile of money . Insurance is based on a rather complicated set of actuarial tables ( from insurance companies , not brokers ) and the math breaks down with multiple policies and multiple payouts . From a consumer standpoint , it makes sense to have multiple policies . But fundamentally insurance is there to pay a claim , not to allow you to profit handsomely from a claim . A $ 20K vehicle replacement fee should provide you with $ 20K , not $ 40K ( two policies ) . From a regulatory standpoint , I think you can see the opportunity for fraud as well if one was allowed to get 2 or 50 policies .
I 've worked on software to model both kinds of retirement accounts -- the RRSP in Canada and the 401 ( k ) in the U.S. -- and here 's what I 've learned about their major similarities and differences : How the 401 ( k ) and RRSP are similar : Both are official investment account types created by government and conferring tax advantages designed to encourage you to save for retirement : Both permit pre-tax contributions ; i.e. you can claim an income tax deduction for contributions made to the account during the year . Both enable tax-deferred investment growth . That is , any returns generated in the account are not taxed in the year returns are generated -- rather , they are taxed later upon withdrawal -- hence the " deferred " . This helps compound growth work to your advantage . Both have annual contribution limits designed to prevent you from contributing all of your income into the account . Both generally permit you to invest in a variety of investment products ( e.g. mutual funds , stocks , bonds , CDs / GICS ) -- though what options exactly depends on your plan or broker . Both have ages beyond which withdrawals or conversion to an account type requiring withdrawals is mandatory . ( Required Minimum Distribution rule in the U.S. , and RRIF accounts in Canada . ) How the 401 ( k ) and RRSP are different : 401 ( k ) accounts are offered only in conjunction with an employer via payroll deduction . Whereas , in Canada it is possible to have an individual RRSP , as well as a group RRSP from an employer , and payroll deductions are just one way to put money in . In Canada , there are also distinct employer-sponsored Defined Contribution ( DC ) pension plans which are not considered RRSPs ; I understand in the U.S. , most DC plans are 401 ( k ) - type plans . On the other hand , while there are no individual 401 ( k ) in the U.S. , there are Individual Retirement Account ( IRA ) plans , but contribution limits are less generous . 401 ( k ) accounts can optionally offer two additional contribution types : traditional post-tax contributions , and Roth post-tax contributions . Such types of contribution do not exist for RRSPs , where the only contribution type is pre-tax . However , Canada recently introduced the TFSA ( Tax Free Savings Account ) , which behaves similar to U.S. Roth-type accounts . 401 ( k ) contribution allowances are use-it-or-lose-it for the year , but in Canada the RRSP contribution allowances cumulatively carry forward . That is , if you do n't put in your allowed contribution this year , you can put in that amount next year , plus next year 's amount , etc. . Many Canadians have built up lots of unused contribution room , to a point where they could conceivably shelter very large sums in an RRSP -- a symptom of past under-saving . 401 ( k ) accounts have early withdrawal penalties where generally speaking any withdrawal before age 591/2 is penalized with an additional 10 % tax , on top of the regular tax due . However , in Canada , early withdrawals from an RRSP are treated no different than withdrawals made in retirement . 401 ( k ) accounts have " catch-up " contributions permitting individuals age 50 + to contribute additional funds . Canada 's RRSP has no such provision ; perhaps owing to the cumulative contribution allowance I mentioned above . 401 ( k ) accounts are subject to rules for Highly Compensated Employees ( HCE ) , which prevent some top-earners in a company from contributing the maximum if other employees do n't contribute enough . RRSPs do n't have such a requirement . There are many more differences ; e.g. inheritance rules , loans , etc. and I 'm sure they could be uncovered if you look at legislation for each in detail ( and manage not to fall asleep doing so ! ) However , I think I 've covered the most common differences above . Official reference sources : <URL> <URL>
Let 's look at some numbers . These are just example rates that I found online . You can substitute your own quotes and compare yourself . I 'm not going to name the company , but these advertised rates are all from one nationally-known company for a 25-year old female . Whole life : $ 78.13 / month for $ 100,000 of coverage . 10-year term : $ 15.00 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . 20-year term : $ 15.45 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . 30-year term : $ 20.23 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . If you went with the whole life option , you would be paying $ 937.56 per year . The policy builds a cash value ; the amount this grows can vary greatly , and you 'll need to look at the fine print to see how it will grow , but let 's pretend that after 30 years , the cash value of the policy is $ 50,000 ( a reasonable guess , in my opinion ) . Let 's look at what this means : You can cash out your policy , but at that point , you 'll stop paying payments , and your heirs wo n't get your $ 100,000 death benefit . You can borrow against it , but you 'll have to pay it back . You could use it to pay your premium , in which case you 'll stop paying payments . However , keep in mind that if you do pass away , you lose the cash value you 've built up ; your beneficiaries only get the $ 100,000 death benefit . Now let 's look at the term insurance option . We 'll go with the 30-year term . It will only cost you $ 242.76 per year , and the death benefit is more than double the whole life coverage . If you were to take the difference between the two premiums ( $ 58 per month ) and invest it in a mutual fund growing at 8 % per year , you would have $ 86,441 in your account after 30 years . This money is yours ( or your heirs ) , whether or not you pass away before your term is up . After the 30 years is up , your insurance is over , but you are now almost all the way up to the death benefit of the whole life policy anyway . In my opinion , term life insurance is better than whole life for just about everybody . I do n't want to be morbid here , but the earlier someone dies , the more benefit they get with term insurance vs whole life . If someone does have reason to believe that his life expectancy is shorter than average , term insurance makes even more sense , as he is more likely to get the death benefit for much less money in premiums than he would in whole life .
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
As far as I can recall , savings and chequing accounts exist due to regulations on the banking industry that put were into effect after the depression to prevent a " run " on the bank . A chequing account is a " demand " account , meaning you can go and demand your money , and they have to pay immediately , by means of a withdrawal or a cheque . Banks used to get out of hand and loan out pretty much all the money they had on deposit , and of course those people with loans just put the money they borrowed into another chequing account and the bank loaned that out to someone else . The money that people believed they had access to multiplied indefinitely . However , when everyone goes to take that money out at the same time , you have a run on the bank . Therefore , government regulations stipulate a % that the bank must have on-hand . The typical number is 5 % . That effectively limits the money multiplier to 19 times . Savings accounts get around this restriction by putting limits on how much and how quickly you can withdraw the amounts . They pay you more interest because the money in a savings account is worth more to them , because it 's not subject to those restrictions . Some chequing accounts pay interest , but you have to maintain a minimum balance . Some savings accounts allow you to write cheques , but I assume the withdrawal limitations probably still apply . There 's also something to do with deposit insurance ( as in , the chequing accounts are covered by government deposit insurance , but savings accounts are not ) . I 'm not 100 % certain of that though .
The traditional role of a stockbroker is to arrange for the buying and selling of stock by finding buyers and sellers at an agreed upon price . The broker does not purchase the stock for himself but merely arranges for the stock to be traded . A trader is one who purchases stock with the hope of selling it for a gain . The trader will use a broker to help with the purchase and sale of a stock .
The problem is that the reason you find out may be that you are at the car dealer , picked out a car , and getting ready to sign the loan papers with your supposedly good credit , and you are denied for late payment on loans you did n't know you have . Or debt collectors start hounding you . Or you credit card interest rates go up . Or you are charged more for your insurance because you are seen as a bad credit risk . Or you ca n't rent an apartment . The list is almost endless . It can takes many months and hours spent on the phone to fix these things .
Speculation means putting your money on a hunch that some event may occur , depending on current circumstances and some future circumstances . So either you win huge or lose a lot . Investment is a conscious decision made on well defined research and grounded on good reasons i.e. economy , industry , company reports etc. . Here is a link on wikipedia with more details on <URL> .
<URL> is a record that can be put on your asset , meaning that any sale proceeds of the asset will go to a lien holder/lien holder must approve any transfer of ownership . The asset continues to belong to you though . <URL> is when someone gives you money and you promise to pay it back . <URL> is a specific case of a loan - loan is called " mortgage " when something is mortgaged in return ( usually this refers to real estate , but auto loans are essentially the same ) . I.e. : the lender puts a lien on the property and has the right to sell it if you 're in default on your loan obligation ( a " regular " lien does n't give that right ) .
To be in a health savings account you must be in a high deductible health plan , but the advantage is that the money rolls over from year to year if you do n't use it , but it can only be used for qualified medical expenses . A flexible spending account has its advantage as well : You can use it for dependent care as well as medical expenses , but it 's part of a cafeteria plan and you lose the money that you do n't spend by the end of the year ( rather than it simply rolling over to the next ) . Another benefit in a FSA is that if you allocate 200/mo to it , and you need to get surgery in January that costs 2400 dollars and then you lose your job in February , you just got 2400 dollars of surgery for 200 dollars pre-tax :) In summary : Move to France for real health care :) just kidding
Stop order is shorter term for stop-loss order . The point being that is intended as a protective measure . A buy stop order would be used to limit losses when an investor has sold a stock short . ( Meaning that they have borrowed stock and sold it , in hopes that they can take advantage of a decline in the stock 's price by replacing the borrowed stock later at a cheaper price . The idea is to limit losses due to a rising stock price . ) Meanwhile , a sell stop order would be used to limit losses on a stock that an investor actually owns , by selling it before the price declines further . The important thing to keep in mind about stop orders is that they turn into market orders when the stop price is reached . This means that they will be filled at the best available price when the order is actually executed . In fast moving markets , this can be a price that is quite different from the stop price . A limit order allows an investor to ensure that they do not buy/sell a stock at more/less than the specified amount . The thing to keep in mind is that a limit order is not guaranteed to execute . A stop-limit order is a combination of a stop-loss order and limit order , in that it becomes a limit order ( instead of a market order ) when the stop price is reached . Links to definitions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
A lender lends money to a person or institution . A creditor is owed money by the person or institution . Many times they are equal . But if you owe money to somebody they are a creditor . You could have paid with a check , but it bounced . Or you contracted them for a service , and then never paid for that service . Yes technically a creditor did offer a short term that was supposed to be paid within X days of being billed . Sometimes a creditor works the other way also . You gave a deposit to company X for them to remodel your kitchen . They never start the job . They now owe you a refund of your deposit . You are now a creditor .
CFD stands for <URL> and is an agreement between you and your broker . When the contract is closed the broker promises to pay a certain amount for every <URL> the bought currency has moved in your favour , if it moved against you it 's you who pays the broker . The term comes from the fact that upon closing the position you take the difference between the closing price and the opening price and that money is transferred/deducted to/from your account . It is important to note that at no point you actually physically or virtually possess the bought currency , nor must you deliver the sold currency . The FX spot market differs from that in the last point : You physically or virtually exchange currencies . This means you receive/pay interest on the bought/borrowed currencies if held overnight . And also this implies that there 's no " open position " like in the CFD case ( put differently your USD balance does n't remember if it came about by selling AUDs or EURs ) . Some platforms , however , have a " close everything " button , i.e. to sell all currencies that are n't your base currencies . In this regard perhaps even more surprising but depending on your broker , and whether or not they grant you direct market access and , if so , the actual market ( <URL> ) , you will trade in <URL> , that means the quotes you see are only valid for when you trade exact multiples of the lot sizes of the currencies involved ( so called even-lot trade ) . Anything odd needs to be traded in an odd lot order for which there 's either a surcharge or wider spreads .
The ratings that you see are usually <URL> . The <URL> publishes several different kinds of ratings that are designed to measure " the creditworthiness of an issuer or debt obligation " , i.e. how close the company is to insolvency , how financially stable it is , etc. . In short , it 's a rating of the financial strength of the company . For most consumers , these ratings probably are n't anything more than a formality , since most major insurers are solid companies . Of course , these ratings break down when companies are n't estimating their potential for losses correctly , hence the bailout of AIG after its fiasco with credit default swaps . The <URL> AM Best uses is somewhat complex . They state that : Our rating process involves a comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis of a company 's balance sheet strength , operating performance and business profile . This includes comparisons to peers and industry standards as well as assessments of operating plans , philosophy and management . I 'm fairly certain that these ratings apply to all types of insurers , including re-insurers , as well as some of the securities they offer . <URL> and <URL> also publish ratings of insurance companies , but AM Best is known for focusing almost exclusively on the insurance industry . All of these ratings are financial strength ratings , however , which is n't necessarily indicative of how appropriate their products will be for you . I 'm sure there are other ratings too , e.g. customer service ratings , that you could find somewhere , but I do n't know of any specific ones off the top of my head . The financial strength of a company is more relevant when you buy a life insurance policy or an annuity , because you want the company to be viable for a long time . In this case , you should consider the financial strength ratings as part of your evaluation before purchasing such a policy .
end question
