start question
After enabling TRIM should I delete free space ?
If this is not your system disk , you should kick off a disk repair which will trim unused blocks . Otherwise , boot in single user mode ( hold ⌘ + S during startup ) and issue the command : . Be aware this will not work from rescue systems , as they do not have trimforce enabled , while booting to the single user mode acknowledges trimforce .
The most important upgrade is making the system drive a Solid State Drive ( SSD ) . This alone may double the effective speed of your computer . Extra RAM is a nice second . Since SSDs are usually more expensive than traditional hard drives per GB , you could explore a ' hybrid ' drive , though I 'd recommend the fastest SSD that your Mac 's PCI bus throughput can handle . When I upgraded my old MacBook Pro ( I think it was also a 2009 model ) , large SSDs were still expensive , so I bought a 128MB SSD for the main system drive and moved the existing HDD into the spot where the Optical Drive was ( with a special mounting bracket ) , and put the Optical Drive in a cheap external USB case . I found all the parts on eBay for under $ 250USD and was honestly shocked at how much faster that MacBook performed .
There is no easy way to disable / delete the Apple ID from Apple 's servers , but you can delete all the personal data ( contacts , calendars , mail ) and then change the contact information and security questions / password to ones that you will no longer use or ever enter into a device . I would write them down and file it in a safe just in case you change your mind down the road . If you want to re-use that email with Apple in the future , you may want to change the Apple ID to a disposable email and clear all other emails from that account if you ever want to use those " real " email addresses with your actual AppleID . <URL> <URL> <URL> In short - you can and should delete the obsolete ID from all your devices . You ca n't get Apple to delete them on the server without speaking with a service engineer and even then , it 's not a clear case that a quick request will be honored .
If you are running Windows the free version of <URL> will do this : Record CDs and convert MP3s , M4A , OGG , FLAC and WMA files etc. into other formats . It comes with a time limited mp3 encoder , but you can replace that yourself . However , this probably is n't an issue if you 're converting for the iPhone .
1 ) That entirely depends on what you want to do . There are a bunch of app recommendation discussions here based around games , productivity , etc. . Rather than rehash them , I 'd suggest searching those out . 2 ) Plug it into a USB port on your computer . The phone also comes with a wall adapter for the USB cable so you can charge it from a wall socket . 3 ) Do n't stick it in the oven or the freezer and you should be fine .
To remove or move the Backups.backupdb folder open Terminal.app . Enter to change the working directory . has to be the volume name of your TM backup volume . Enter to show all folders . Usually you should see only one folder with the name 501 now : Enter to get super user rights . Enter to change the working directory and list the content of the folder 501 with . Now you should see the folder Backups.backupdb : Now you may either move the folder back to the root of the backup drive with : or remove the folder with If you are asked to override something ( e.g. ) enter and hit the return button . You may also add the option to skip confirmations . To delete a 30 GB backup in a virtual machine it took about 3 minutes . So depending on the size of Backups.backupdb some patience is needed .
There are arguments and reasons to go either way . First the facts we know ( excluding jailbreak and cracking app store DRM ) : You can never change the Apple ID for each purchase once made . However , with MDM solutions evolving and VPP , there is the ability to purchase apps in bulk and then revoke the " purchase " by a subsequent AppleID and return a purchase to the pool for re-issue to another AppleID on later iOS versions . Perhaps that will come to the Mac at some future point . Apple has a <URL> to make the App Store work better for business use . The consumer level <URL> also exists to let one party pay and another redeem . You can change the payment option on your account with great ease . There is a 5 account limit on most devices . Updating apps is a chore each time you have to : get updates for account A go to store preferences enter account B and the password go back to the app store for updates update again - entering password B a second time go to store preferences enter account A and the password iTunes only backs up apps for which that computer is authorized . ( this can be a benefit or a hassle ) Now for some assumptions and commentary . Starting from the simplest scenario , you will either have to use a work credit card or work gift card on your personal Apple ID ( juggling the payment options and providing these receipts to account for these purchases just like you would a cup of coffee , a hotel room and other petty expenses that the business just writes off . ) Having a " work " id means in theory - the work could ask you for the password ( or force a reset of the password since they would likely maintain control of the email or request/force you to put their email as the contact when you leave the company ) . They could then issue that Apple ID to another person that would then have use of the apps you once purchased . In practice - how would you feel getting a " recycled " Apple ID as the new employee or the boss welcoming a new team member . Even $ 1000 a year in app purchases pales in comparison to the training costs to a business for losing an employee . Company " ownership " of these app purchases is not a big deal in practice . If you ask your employees to switch in the business account - what happens when someone fails to do that - you 'll end up with an expense report anyhow or you 'll have a grumpy employee . Banning personal Apple ID is a potential solution as well . That also is demeaning to someone that 's going to be taking their work on the go with them - especially if work did n't buy the hardware . There are times when I really want my work persona to be totally different than my personal . Having that work Apple ID separate from my home ID does n't seem to work at all to have that separation . I would not be able to remember to switch my account - I would go to purchase - see the password and enter it . About half way through the download I would realize my mistake . I can see this working for some , but think through this if you embark on a two ID strategy . I would draft an addendum to your normal expense reporting policy to call for quarterly reports ( if you do n't report these expenses as they happen ) , urge you to use existing work credit cards to buy gift cards or have one work account gift apps to users that do n't need many or are getting started . Once your company hits thousands of dollars of apps - you can look into the <URL> which still lets the business send redemption codes to individual Apple ID . Make it a point to educate everyone - an executive summary ( this is what we 're doing / how it will be controlled ) as well as a detailed guide - who does what and when . Once you think it through - the idea of work asking for a work Apple ID might make as little sense to you as it does to me . I would however , be sensitive to the finance department - the have long held practices on how to purchase software . Sitting down with them and showing them my purchase history and educating them how this all works . Handing them my phone and letting them buy an app - seeing it download and start using it is an eye opener .
Ok , solution found on an old superuser question , posting here for posterity . <URL> I got <URL> . I ran that on the compact setting ( required restarting into it 's own special mode , but no disk burning was needed ) . A few hours later I tried to resize the partition and it worked fine .
The Trim Enabler patches the following Kext-File which checks if the ssd is a 3rd-party or Apple Branded SSD : you can also enable trim manually by looking for all ' Apple ' occurrences in the file and patching them in a hex-editor or via terminal :
Try running Keychains Repair Tool by opening Keychain from you Utilities folder , then from the menu bar choose Keychain Access , then Keychain First Aid , then enter your password , verify then start it . If there are any problems click Repair then Start . ( via <URL> ) If that does n't work then try Resetting your Keychain . Via <URL> you just need to do these steps : Open Keychain Access , which is in the Utilities folder within the Applications folder . From the Keychain Access menu , choose Preferences . Click General , then click Reset My Default Keychain . Authenticate with your account login password . Quit Keychain Access then Restart your computer .
You can save all the app data to migrate to another iOS device at a later date by backing the iPhone up to iTunes or setting up a free iCloud account . This will nicely complement your existing plan in case you forget something until after you turn in the phone . You can restore your backup on to a friend 's device long enough to retrieve that additional data and then erase the device . As long as you maintain the iTunes backup on the computer or iCloud access - your backup will be waiting until you get another iOS device to load the backup . Here are some other apps you may have used occasionally and want to transfer to your Mac : voice memos can be imported to iTunes call history , SMS messages and voicemail ( using an app like <URL> ) If you have a good backup , you can feel better about having the phone erase all content and settings so you give it back clean and with no personal data just in case your company does n't do a great job sanitizing the device before re-issuing it to someone else .
Since you did n't mention you had a backup of the system or if you are equipped to troubleshoot a driver issue , you should probably not update things unless you have a problem . Apple vets the drivers it provides to be sure they work well with Mac hardware - so although you are free to update drivers , you are skipping that vetting process . Unless the driver manufacturer messed up , you will should be as fine as any other user updating the driver so it 's more an edge case of them not testing the new driver on Mac hardware than something that should break . Apple 's drivers are typically for the screen resolution , trackpad , system sensors and it 's unlikely those need a change since your Mac hardware has n't changed in most cases .
Yes , you can , as long as you install the command line tools . You can then install the command line tools with For more information ( from the iOS Dev Library , but applicable in this case ) , see <URL>
Here are some tips about the batteries that go inside Apple computers and devices . lithium cells will catch on fire and burn with such intensity that they can ignite almost anything that is combustible if you damage during the replacement . To save space , Apple engineers designed the case of your MacBook to protect the battery - once you open the case , the battery is extremely vulnerable to physical damage or a short circuit . If you lose one tiny metal screw behind the battery and then shut your case it could easily squeeze , crush or puncture a battery cell - setting you up for disaster down the road . that being said , assuming you power off your Mac before you start the replacement , you wo n't lose any data and you probably wo n't damage anything else as long as you are slow and careful . Pay attention to not damage the delicate cables or lose any parts . Be willing to take it to a trained technician if you ca n't be absolutely certain you did the replacement right . dispose of the spent battery properly and insure it is safely protected and packaged so it does n't get punctured and start a fire . Lithium batteries are considered hazardous waste in many places and should it catch on fire , release of very toxic gases will happen . as long as the battery contains the proper parts , there is no break-in procedure whatsoever . You might be on your own if you select an aftermarket part have to do some research with the vendor to be sure you have the correct part .
What you can do is to check if you are running the right build . It 's just to check that you are not still running the developer preview . Lion is free for developers anyway , so that might be the reason you got it for free .
It 's not so much your version of Apache/PHP have been reverted - it 's just the wrong version is loaded . If you have Mac OS X 's Web Sharing enabled it will auto enable the version of Apache and PHP Apple provides using the LaunchDaemon in ( this will override MacPorts version ) . You 'll want to disable this by either turning off Web Sharing in the Sharing Preference Pane or by running . When you installed Apache for MacPorts it installed a LaunchDaemon into which if enabled will start up the MacPorts version of Apache automatically . To enable it run and you 're off to the races . If you 're running to restart - make sure you 've selected the right version . You may need to alter your $ PATH to have before As for what version of PHP is being used ; on the command line this will depend on your $ PATH while for Apache it 's entirely in your configuration of where the libphp5 module is . ( for the built in version , for the version MacPorts installed )
Apps are submitted as . ipa files which is really just a zipped container of a . app file . In fact , you can simply unzip a . ipa file to see its true size . Apps in the App Store are listed by their compressed size , and will need to be uncompressed after installing . As of iOS 6 , updates to apps only include files that have been changed . As of iOS 7 , updates to apps only include changes to changed files . So , I guess to answer the question directly , for any given app you would need : Free space to store the compressed app update file , free space to store the uncompressed app update file , and space currently being used by the app and all its data/caches . <URL>
Launch the Terminal mail app with : You 'll see a list of all your messages . From the mail prompt , do And that should be it . Make sure do to the after the command , that saves the changes to disk .
Sounds to me like you need to identify your Mac model more than anything else . Give a try <URL> Once you know your precise model , you may want to go to <URL> to identify the precise piece number you 're looking for .
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
end question
start question
How do I make applications open on the primary display and not the active display ?
I do n't fully understand your question but here 's my answer on what i think you want to achieve . Make sure you have your display connected when doing the following . Open the application you want to assign . Control + Click ( Right click ) on the dock icon You should see that a menu pops up and hover over Options You 'll see something that says Assign To and then some options Select the display you want You should be done :)
With the escape sequence . Example of use in Bash : Which you could add to your if you use Bash , or otherwise attach to you so it gets re-evaluated often . Example :
You can use Hot Corners to put your display to sleep instantly . This article on OSXDaily walks through the steps , <URL> . Launch System Preferences and click on " Mission Control " Click on " Hot Corners ... " in the lower left corner Set the screen corners you want to use to " Put Display to Sleep " Close out of System Preferences and test the Hot Corner by sliding your cursor into that screens corner
Apple 's solution , like it or not , is to use Exposé or <URL> ( Lion ) to switch between windows . ⌘ + tab is considered an application switcher . There are third party solutions to change this behavior , but I do n't have experience with them . There is some discussion about these solutions on <URL> .
Select <URL> instead of a city . ( Strictly <URL> no longer exists . )
Set it as a Nickname instead . Then it would only be seen by you . Do n't hand the contact card to anyone , though , as it would be in that . See <URL> for a cautionary tale ;-) A friend of mine has been " Young Master Johnson " [ fake name ] for 15 years without anyone else knowing .
As answered in the comment by bispymusic , this was resolved by using a DVI - > HDMI adaptor or cable . The Mac mini was able to output a whole new set of resolutions , and jumped straight to 1080p as the most suitable . Thanks .
Ctrl + Shift + Eject will turn off the displays but leave the computer active . Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power ⌽ for some Macbook
There 's a lot of applications out there that will do this . The feature in iTunes was never that good anyway since it did n't really let you compare files to make sure you were n't deleting the wrong files ( like songs that appear in compilations , best-ofs , etc ) . Probably some free options out there , but <URL> is pretty good ( $ 13 ) . I 'm sure some Googling might yield more results
Yes , it works , but it 's not graceful , it 's ungainly : Source : <URL>
I do n't fully understand your question but here 's my answer on what i think you want to achieve . Make sure you have your display connected when doing the following . Open the application you want to assign . Control + Click ( Right click ) on the dock icon You should see that a menu pops up and hover over Options You 'll see something that says Assign To and then some options Select the display you want You should be done :)
I 've noticed the same thing , but only when there was a notification on the lock screen . I 'm chalking it up to that , and not worrying about it . But still interested to learn more if anyone knows anything .
You can indeed use both the HDMI and Thunderbolt ports to drive two separate monitors with a Mac Mini . Any Mac with a Thunderbolt port can use any mini Displayport display , cable or adapter , so you 're correct that the mDP to DVI adapter is what you need1 . If you have a display that requires <URL> ( typically only monitors with resolutions higher than 1920x1200 ) , you 'll need an active mDP to dual-link DVI adapter . For the HDMI port , HDMI to DVI adapters are readily available ( HDMI is essentially a superset of DVI with a different connector ) . Note that the HDMI port is limited to monitors with 1920x1200 or lower resolution . 1 Note that the reverse is not true - Thunderbolt monitors ca n't be used with mDP equipped Macs .
I was able to get these values by booting into the Linux partition ( which somehow managed to get the correct resolution by itself ! ) and using the following cmd in terminal ( requires super ) : I was expecting a range of values , e.g. , but got the exact values - vfreq 60.223 Hz and hfreq 50.949 Hz . This should be available via a live-CD/usb too .
Unfortunately , no . Thunderbolt displays will only work with a Thunderbolt port on your machine - not with a Mini Display Port ...
Open the Mail , Contacts , Calendars section and find the iCloud account . Select it . Press " Delete Account " . Select " Delete " . Select " Add Account ... " Select " iCloud " . Log in . This works on iPad ; I assume it 's the same for all other current iOS devices .
In this case , it was just a bug . All you need to do to fix this is to restart your iPhone and it should be fixed . Thanks to Apple support .
<URL> shows photos of a direct comparison : Standing in front of the white-LED backlight on the new MBP , it 's immediately apparent how crisp the whites are -- it 's very noticeable after staring into CCFL LCDs all day long . But even though the whites were whiter , the screen did n't necessarily seem a lot brighter , which is probably where some amount of CCFL dimming on our test MBP came into play in creating the dramatic difference we saw . Viewing angles were very similar on both machines , but as you 'll notice , at half brightness it 's the LED backlit MBP that 's dimmer , and the CCFL display that 's actually brighter . Interesting stuff . Also interesting could be the Advantages and Disadvantages sections of the Wikipedia article on LEDs ( <URL> ) : Slow failure : LEDs mostly fail by dimming over time , rather than the abrupt failure of incandescent bulbs . Lifetime : LEDs can have a relatively long useful life . One report estimates 35,000 to 50,000 hours of useful life , though time to complete failure may be longer . Fluorescent tubes typically are rated at about 10,000 to 15,000 hours , depending partly on the conditions of use , and incandescent light bulbs at 1,000 -- 2,000 hours .
I have discovered that 100 % of the times that this happened to me , it was because I either had : A USB ( or Firewire ) peripheral connected that was pooling the bus and for some mysterious reason caused your behavior . I accidentally moved the mouse ( or the table where both mouse/key lie ) ; small vibrations caused the mouse to register movement and that was enough to wake the box . I do n't know if this is your case , but whenever you 're in the " it wakes up ! " cycle , try to disconnect everything and use the keyboard shortcut with surgeon precision and softness and see if it changes . Additionally you might want con check the Console Output of the logs to see if there 's an error going on while your invoke your sleep screen shortcut .
Go to Settings > General > Restrictions and untick the Youtube button . After that Youtube links will open in Safari and the app icon will disappear from the home screen .
end question
start question
Is there any way to run Network Link Condition from a Standard User account ?
You can start the System Preferences.app as Admin and from that use the Network Link Conditioner.prefpane . To do so use the following shell command : or the following AppleScript command : When I click on the Network Link Conditioner in the window that is opened after the password is given , I get a message that System Preferences needs to be restartet to open the PrefPane . After agreeing to this the Network Link Conditioner is working for me while I 'm logged in as normal ( non-admin ) user in 10.10 .
Are you positive you are in the Developer Tools group ? Try running this command That should add your user account to the group .
In OS X 10.11 the default under System Preferences > Mission Control for the Automatically rearrange Spaces based on most recent use is checked . So to not have your Spaces rearranged on you , uncheck the checkbox for that setting . <URL> To have an App tied to a particular Desktop , open the target App on that Desktop , then control-click ( right-click ) the target App 's Dock Tile and select : Options > Assign To > This Desktop <URL> To have an App launch automatically upon Login , go to System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > select the User > click Login Items and add the App . <URL>
As iMessage stands today , this can not be done . Just as you ca n't block a number or email from sending you an iMessage - there is no technical way to get others to not send you a group message ( other than by exerting social pressure to exclude you from further communications ) . I have n't been able to find anything playing on my phone , and several forum posts suggest that it ca n't be done : On <URL> , sla252 writes ( November , 2011 ) : Just got off the phone with Apple tech support . They admitted there is no way to remove yourself from an iMessage group chat . The tech guy says the best thing we can do is go to <URL> There 's also a <URL> in which huntard713 suggests ( October , 2011 ) : Settings-Messages . Turn group messaging off . It 's now November 2011 and I ca n't find this setting on my iPhone , and this was in response to a slightly different problem ( about who sees the other participants in a group iMessage , so I do n't know how effective this . I 'm sorry this does n't really answer your question ; for now at least , it looks like you ca n't leave a group iMessage .
I believe that if you make an encrypted backup using iTunes it will include passwords .
You can by using an Administrator account and renaming the apps in Finder . LaunchPad will show the changed name accordingly . There also is <URL> , which seems to make renaming items and other operations in LaunchPad possible . Unfortunately , it seems to be discontinued , so try it at your own risk . Finally , if you are comfortable with SQLite databases and SQL , you could manually make the necessary changes in <URL> . I 'd advise you to first back up your database before you start tinkering with it . You can use the built-in command-line client to manipulate this database . You 'll want to find the appropriate records in the table , and update their field .
Alternatives for <URL> <URL> Uses OS X binary versions when available Compiles OS X optimized versions Compiling usually faster than with MacPorts Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Tries to separate already installed software from what is installed through ... ... while taking advantage of already installed software and libraries ( e.g. does n't install a working version of Perl twice ) Installing software does n't need root access Actively developed on <URL> <URL> Uses Debian tools like and Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Can be used to install precompiled packages or to compile everything from the source Has a separate directory tree to avoid interference with the system <URL> Last version 2010-04-10 <URL> Has GUI Nothing new on the website since 2008
That is not possible using the default Mail app . It only allows you to differentiate between VIPs and regular senders ( by placing a ☆ next to VIPs ) . If you want to differentiate which account received an email within a notification , you would need to use a separate app for one of your accounts . You will then get separate notification settings for that app , and a different notification icon as well .
To add an item to your Login Items : Open up the Accounts Preference Pane in System Preferences Click on your Account and the click on the Login Items tab on the right hand side of the window . Click the ' + ' button to navigate to the application or document you wish to open up on login . If you wish you can check off the " Hide " checkbox to hide the application by default after it launches during login .
All users share acces to / Applications . Move apps you want restricted to your user 's home folder ~ / Applications and then creat a new user from system preferences .
Login to a different admin account . Delete your account , choosing " Do n't change the home folder " option . Open Terminal and rename your home folder , eliminating the " ( Deleted ) " part -- sudo mv " / Users/yourshortname ( Deleted ) " / Users/yourshortname Unbind your machine ( Login Options tab , at the bottom ) Create a new account with the same short name . Use the existing folder , when you 're prompted . An update to my comment of Sep 6 at 15:24 and part of # 4 -- Apple has just issued a supplemental update that fixes this loophole . The text of their security announcement is : APPLE-SA-2013-10-03-1 OS X v10 .8.5 Supplemental Update OS X v10 .8.5 Supplemental Update is now available and addresses the following : Directory Services Available for : OS X Mountain Lion v10 .8 to v10 .8.5 Impact : A local user may modify Directory Services records with system privileges Description : A logic issue existed in Directory Services 's verification of authentication credentials allowing a local attacker to bypass password validation . The issue was addressed through improved credential validation . CVE-ID CVE-2013-5163 : the rookies of 42
<URL> : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , and then click Users &amp; Groups . Click the lock icon to unlock it , and then type an administrator name and password . Select Guest User in the list of accounts . To let a guest user log in to the computer , select " Allow guests to log in to this computer . " However , guest users ca n't log in remotely . If you let guests log in , you can also set up parental controls for guests by selecting " Enable parental controls " and clicking Open Parental Controls . For more information about the limits you can set , see this help topic : <URL> To let guests use your shared folders and their contents from another computer on your network , select " Allow guests to connect to shared folders . "
Yes - this is a per blog preference . I found <URL> ... Double click the blog in the main window to open settings . Click the " Editing " pane . Find the " Preview Defaults " at the bottom of that section . Here 's a picture showing that you can choose to have it off or remember the last state as well as the default option of opening .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
You will have to edit the files with a text ( or xml ) editor . First make a backup of the app ( especially for Finder ) , then go into the bundle contents and find the or . This will probably be in the folder . Most likely , this file will be called . However , Finder 's is and some apps , like Firefox , wo n't have one at all . The nib file can be converted to XML with . Then you can open it in the text editor of your choice . Just command ⌘ + F ( or control ⌃ + S ) for the menu name you want to change . It should look something like this : Edit the string at the top . This is actually the Interface Builder connection between the menu item of that name and the Objective-C selector/method that it calls . Save the nib and relaunch the application ( with Force Quit or for Finder ) and you should have the different name showing up .
There 's no official way to achieve this , however you can try <URL> in a certain order until they match the colour you want .
I believe there is no way for a end-user to do this . All iOS apps will have Application_Home / Documents , Application_Home / Library , Application_Cache folders . All the files stored in these folders should be managed by application itself . So , it 's true that you ca n't do this without jail breaking .
You can do that with Network locations . You can defined for example two profiles : work ( fixed IP ) and home ( DHCP ) . As you said chancing the location from is tedious . However you can do the same from the menu : > .
You might consider searching the App Store . A few that turned up were : <URL> <URL> <URL> .
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
end question
start question
How do you remove fonts from the Favorite collection in the Fonts dialog ?
Grab it in the list &amp; drag it out to the desktop - like you would with an app in the dock , etc. . You should see the little puff of smoke &amp; it 's gone .
RTF table support is quite limited in TextEdit . If the column you want to get rid of is not the last column in the table ( in which case <URL> is your best option ) you can try the procedure below : Let 's say you want to delete column " c " below : Hold down Option to mark the contents of the column ( note that the cursor changes shape to a cross ) : Now you can either : Press Delete to delete its contents : Position the cursor in every empty cell and press the fndelete key combination ( you can also use the delete ⌦ key , but you will have to rearrange columns later ) : until you have deleted all of them : or : Press Merge in Format > Table ... : Select the contents of the column and delete them by pressing Delete : Place the cursor in the empty column and press the fndelete key combination ( you can also use the delete ⌦ key , but you will have to rearrange columns later ) to delete it . I wish it were more straightforward , but unfortunately it is n't .
Just get Tinker Tool for free . It will let you change the fonts and font size for Safari in OS X Mavericks .
EDIT As of March 7th 2012 you can now delete individual photos from Photo Stream if you are running iOS 5.1 or iPhoto 9.2.2 Believe it or not , it seems you ca n't delete individual photos from iOS5 Photo Stream . It seems you 'll need to wait for them to scroll off as Photo Stream just holds your most recent 1000 pics . Deleting a picture from Camera Roll has no effect on the photos on Photo Stream . According to <URL> : iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You ca n't edit or delete photos from your Photo Stream . If you want to touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . So unless you delete it before it 's uploaded to the cloud , you need to follow the procedures below . You need to reset your Photo Stream from <URL> or turn off Photo Stream within iOS5 on your device . Turn off Photo Stream in iOS5 : Settings > iCloud > Photo Stream Switch off and then back on to clear Photo Stream on this device Repeat for each iOS5 device Reset Photo Stream on iCloud.com Sign into <URL> Click on your name in the upper-right corner Click on ' Advanced ' Click ' Reset Photo Stream ' to remove all Photo Stream pictures from iCloud
On keyboard , press the " 123 " button to bring up numbers . From here press " # + = " to bring up more characters . ~ is the 4th from the left , second row . Answered on an iPhone :D
The answer is this is n't easily done . Apple does n't expose the timing which means it 's likely to change if you apply any updates to the system or the change might even break backups so they do n't run . I 've left a comment asking about the use case . I 've employed scripts to get around this in several cases for customers , but I 'd need to know more about your actual use case before providing an alternate solution that would work even with the default Time Machine scheduling .
Go to System Preferences → Printers &amp; Scanners and set Default printer to Last printer used .
I have the exact same problem . While you should anonymize yourself in the prefs , I do n't fully trust that method , so : Make a copy of the annotated PDF file Drag and drop to open in a text editor like TextWrangler , or hex editor like HexEdit ( Do n't worry about any binary-looking weird characters ) Search for your name and replace with the exact same number of Xs or I usually throw in a space among the Xs so it looks like a different name . Save the file in place Open in Preview and mouse over the annotations to see the anonymized version
You do n't have control to allow only a subset of the photo stream to come to a particular device . Photostream takes photos from all devices that feed it , and as it 's a store that Apple keeps online , if a particular device subscribes to the stream , it gets a cached copy of all messages . You can take that device out of the stream temporarily or free up other space on the device to allow the stream contents to be cached locally . In your specific case , you could exit that stream subscription to clear the space and then have the person that owns the stream re-send it to you once you 've gotten space freed up on some or all devices that need to subscribe to your collective stream .
Place <URL> in / System/Library/Fonts / . You can extract fonts from your OS X install media using <URL> or grab a copy from your backup or another Mac with similar build/version . For more information regarding recovering system files , see : <URL>
Sorry , Apple does n't allow people to change the mouse cursor anymore .
The icon in the menu bar with binoculars inside of a screen is definitely the way to disconnect . Thanks to Chard Marmon for the answer in the comments of my question .
Backup keychain before trying anything . Listing root certificates : Just look in a dump for a names or SHA-1 hash values of certificates that you want to get rid of and write them down . Now you can delete that root certificates using command . Usage : delete-certificate [ - c name ] [ - Z hash ] [ - t ] [ keychain ... ] string found in its common name , or by its SHA-1 hash . If no keychains are specified to search , the default search list is used . For example you can delete chinese root certificates using this command :
This is actually still possible ; however , a safe-guard to protect novice users has been added . There is now a minimum distance that you need to move the icon away from the Dock for it to be removed . Once that distance is reached , the cursor will show a wrinkled paper icon . Simply release the mouse then , and the icon will be removed from the dock normally . Alternatively , one can still use the context menu of the icon ( right-click or long-left-click the icon to make it appear ) and go to Options > Remove from Dock .
You can simply copy them into ( for system wide use ) or ( for use by current user ) .
You can do it with this script : This will return something like this : And the final result :
Use <URL> to resize your existing partitions . Make a bootable disc or USB stick . And be careful , Gparted can easily destroy your data . If this does n't work then you will probably struggle to find any other option . There is no way to my knowledge to change MBR to GPT without destroying all of the partitions and their associated data .
EDIT : In this case it sounds like we want to disable auto-lock . This can be done by opening Settings.app , going to General , then scrolling down to " Auto-Lock " . Set this to " Never " . It is possible use the speakers on iPhone to play even when the device is locked . This is possible by : Opening Music.app Select song/album/playlist Lock the device . The music will continue to play . You can also double tap the home button when the device is locked to show play/pause controls for the last-played music . Also , other apps continue to play when the device is locked such as Voice Memos . Note : all audio will shut off when the phone is powered off .
No , you do not have to purchase OS X more than once . If you are referring to OS X Lion and Mountain Lion , both of which were distributed from the App Store , one purchase is enough for every Mac that you own or control . ( see Apple 's EULA for this ) Additionally , Lion and Mountain Lion have <URL> , which means that a drive that fails or any new drive installed without OS X will be automatically connected to the Internet and installed with a fresh copy of your respective OS . Additionally , Apple has their own <URL> for making USB drives for physical media recovery solutions , or you can use <URL> . Make sure to read LionDiskMaker 's FAQ ( in the link provided ) , as this answers crucial questions concerning the application 's usage .
The behavior that you 've described appears to be a limitation of the Safari mobile browser . Other users have complained about the Safari Mobile auto refresh behavior on several Apple community forum posts . This <URL> offers some explanations and potential solutions : This is not a feature ... It 's a limitation . MobileSafari keeps website cache only in RAM , and therefore , once it runs out of RAM , it 'll automatically destroy an entire page , forcing the refresh , disguising itself as an auto-refresh feature . You can only keep at most 3 pages open at any time ... Even the iPhone 4 with double the amount of RAM can only keep 5 pages . You can try a third-party browser that has offline caching , and it 'll remedy the situation . Or alternatively , use the swap file mod I posted in the jailbreak forums and it should work , too . These third-party browsers have offline page caching as far as I know : <URL> ( also supports concurrent tab , which means you can browse websites while listening to music on youtube , this is my personal favourite ) <URL> ( many useful features , but the interface is a bit strange ) <URL> ( cool browser that looks like a shrunk version of desktop Safari ) Your choices appear to be : Use a jailbreak mod to increase the swap file size ( hopefully will increase number of pages that can be stored ) Use a third party browser that supports offline caching
end question
start question
Is there TRIM support in OS X 10.6.9 for PowerPC ?
A few searches tell me that there is n't good SSD support for power pc macs . This seems to be mostly a SATA III compatibility issue . TRIM support seems to have been introduced in 10.6.8 but only for Apple-supplied drives . Since Apple was producing Intel-based systems by that point , that is where they focused the support . There are blog posts where people have talked about specific drives working in G5 and G4 macs but this is notably without TRIM . OWC has some posts about TRIM and how it is n't for everyone . The important question is , why do you need TRIM ?
You may also want to look into the excellent <URL> . I have n't had a need for it in several years but back in the day it was really one of the best there is . Looks like it is still updated regularly .
Not free but my favorite is <URL> . I went through a few free ones and ending up buying this on a <URL> special and it was worth every cent . It supports resume , password protected sites , and can even FTP if you need it too . It also allows you to share files with other users on the network . I have to admit , though , since moving to the Mac , my failure rates on downloads without a manager has drastically dropped if you 're on a decent internet connection .
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
I used Open Office , it does the job ok . No crashes , quite feature complete . However if you really do n't want to pay anything for an office suite , I 'd go for Google Docs . If you do want to pay , then definitely go for iWork . It 's the only one that 's fully integrated with OS X ( especially if you have Lion ) .
I use Hazel with an applescript to keep my filename extensions hidden . Hazel is just a way to make sure that anytime I create a new file , the applescript gets run on it . The applescript is pretty easy -- you can see all three lines of it in the screenshot below . I also like to set the color labels by file type , thus the selection of only PDFs and the red color labels . You can skip both of those if you like . Just to be clear , you do n't need to use Hazel . You could use folder actions or an automator workflow to initiate the applescript on the files you want to change .
I 've managed to get DBP installed on my Mac ( version 10.6.8 ) . I 've made the compiled plugin available on my blog , since compiling Gimp from MacPorts took an overnight compilation session , and is way too much hassle for folks who just want to plug-n-play . So ... anyone is welcome to <URL> as they wish . If it 's useful , please comment , and if it does n't work , please comment ; in either case if you can state versions of OS X and Gimp , that will hopefully help other users trying to avoid compiling it themselves !
<URL> provides at least part of the functionality you are looking for . Timing is the best way to keep track of the time you spend with your Mac . Find out where your time goes - without ever having to start a timer again ! Timing automatically tracks which documents you are editing , which applications you use , and the domains of the websites you visit . Afterwards , just drag and drop activities into projects . There are some default categories , but you are free to customize them !
By default this file does not exist on any version of OS X. And yes , it is up to you to create it manually : Alternatively , you could use nano as well if you want to edit the file at the same time : Do not monkey in unless you know what you 're doing .
This blog post helps confirm the problem : <URL> The experimental tool to fix the lag issue is here ( also linked from the blog post ) <URL>
<URL> This is the one that satisfied what I needed in a PDF application . Unfortunately , it is only available on Apple devices . Check out its features .
Yes . There is a product called <URL> . The best part is that it 's <URL> One of the features of iTerm2 is that you can remap any of the keys including the ones you asked about . For instance , I remapped Ctrl + Tab to send the text it it worked perfectly . <URL> After hitting Ctrl + Tab , it sends the keystroke : <URL>
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
There is anti-virus software available for Mac OS X : <URL> <URL> ( Free ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> is free ) Is it worth it ? That 's largely up to you . Personally I 'd say unless required there 's no reason to so long as you practice " safe computing " ( eg . not opening files from just anywhere , being aware of what is installed on your computer , etc. ) . However there are some companies that require any computer ( regardless of OS ) to have up to date anti-virus software installed and operational . There are no viruses available for Mac OS X but there are several pieces of malware and trojan horses that a user must manually download and install . The anti-virus products ( and actually a feature in Mac OS X Snow Leopard ) will help fight against these threats but the primary defence is actually user education as the attack vector is primarily social engineering and not using any security hole .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
It was custom installed by MongoDB , this the default folder for writing database . So it has nothing to do with OSX .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
No . The Mac OS handles the physical drive - so any sort of second level defragmentation , optimizations or attempts of a guest OS to control the virtual file system driver would just add delay and complexity on top of the normal IO . Unless you were booting Windows directly in control of the SSD , this setting should be off .
Is depends on the kind of editing you need to do . <URL> is on the App Store . Maybe <URL> too ?
Yes and No . There 's not a final answer on this . There are some basic things you do n't want to do : Never fill your drive , always try to have a minimum of a 20 % of the drive free , SSD performance goes down fast when the drive is full or close to it . Even with trim and whatever the OS does , at some point in 1 , 2 , 3 , n years you might have to completely reformat/repartition the drive to gain some speed . This has been true on Windows Machines ( I 've seen it ) . My MacBook Air ( 1 year old ) has n't yet shown any signs of slowness . SSDs have a limited number of writes before they wear out . At some point blocks just stop working , so if you are constantly writing/deleting files , you 're essentially wearing out your SSD faster than the average ( however this number is huge , say it can last 10 + + years under normal usage ) . One is expected to change the drive by then :) I recommend you google around , there are multiple guides and advice pages . You will find <URL> relatively accurate and up-to-date . Bear in mind that technology in the future may change and the article ( and this answer ) may be rendered obsolete if , for example , SuperSSDs are created and they do n't wear out or have a 1.000.000 years life-span :D
end question
start question
Are iPhone apps required to work on iOS 5 if it works on iOS 6 ?
Apple 's App Store requirements are very vague . <URL> for learning how to get your app rejected from the App Store . In short , it says nothing about backwards compatibility .
It will be available over-the-air , like all releases after iOS 5.0 . That version allowed iOS devices to be independent of any Mac or PC you may sync them to . More information is available from <URL> : iOS updates are free . And they 're available to download wirelessly on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch the moment they 're released . Your device even alerts you when it 's time to get the latest version . So you wo n't miss out on all the amazing features in new updates . A device should retain all your apps , content and settings after you update , but it 's a good idea to ensure you have a recent backup , either on your computer or iCloud , just in case .
There 's been much debate and discussion around this topic . I believe it was beneficial for iOS back in the v3 and v4 days but now it 's not . Craig Federighi even came out recently saying it 's not necessary and it does n't increase the battery life . Apple has built-in their memory management the proper time to suspend and/or kill an app when necesssary . The only time you should force-close an app is if it has become unresponsive .
I think your conclusion is correct . This information is not included in the MDM Protocol Reference and therefore is n't available through MDM . The only way I can think of would be to side-load ( using an Enterprise Distribution certificate/profile ) an app that uses private APIs to monitor such activity and report back . Not recommended and against the Developer Program T&amp;C s I believe ...
You can not rename ' Purchased ' - that is where all your ' officially purchased from Apple ' [ whether you had to pay for it or not ] music sits . You are free to make a new playlist &amp; copy any tracks you wish to it , exactly as you would for any playlist , on phone , pad or Mac .
I played around with it for a few minutes , and eventually it went back to the old mode where task switching works . I have no idea why , and I did n't change any setting . It 's not just the speed : I 've never had trouble getting task switching to work , and for the first 10 minutes after upgrading , it did n't work no matter how fast I clicked it . It would zip over to the useless search screen and back really fast .
The short version : Original iPad , no . iPad 2 , yes . The details also matter for some features , per <URL> : There 's also the device specific features fine print : Turn-by-turn navigation is available only on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , and iPad 2 or later with cellular data capability . Flyover is available only on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , iPad 2 or later , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) . Siri is available on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , iPad ( 3rd generation ) , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) and requires Internet access . FaceTime video calling requires a FaceTime-enabled device for the caller and recipient and a Wi-Fi connection . FaceTime over a cellular network requires iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , or iPad ( 3rd generation ) with cellular data capability . Offline Reading List is available on iPhone 4 or later and iPad 2 or later . Made for iPhone hearing aids require iPhone 4S or iPhone 5 . Panorama is available on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) .
Yes , all Safari extensions run equally on Windows and Mac OS , so you do not need to look for platform-specific versions . All Safari extensions ( that use the official extension API ) are required to be written in pure Javascript , so they will work on all platforms .
According to <URL> iOS 6 does n't make the iPhone 3GS any slower or more difficult to use than it was before , which should be good news to anyone who keeps theirs around as a secondary or backup phone -- indeed , it 's pleasantly surprising how many of the refinements and improvements make their way down to Apple 's oldest-supported piece of iOS hardware . However , that hardware has been surpassed so thoroughly by other iOS and Android handsets at this point that it 's difficult to recommend it as a primary handset . You do n't have much to lose if you upgrade a 3GS to iOS 6 , but there 's a lot more to gain by investing in a newer device .
I have an iPod Touch 4 with IOS 6.1.6 . I followed the instructions on the link <URL> and now have a fully functional version of ' Podcasts ' . In my case when I initially tried to download Podcasts from the App Store with iPod Touch , it advised that I needed IOS 7 and there was no option to install an older version . However as outlined in link above , I downloaded the Podcasts app in iTunes and then synced my iPod with iTunes . Then I went back into the iPod App Store and tried to download it . This time it still advised that I needed IOS 7 , however it also gave me an option to download a version compatible with IOS 6 . So , the bottom line here is that Podcasts has a compatible version for IOS 6 in App Store , but Apple does not advert this to users ( unless you already have it installed on your iPod ) and make it very hard to get . In my case it 's taken me 2 hours of time to solve this problem . Podcasts are my main use of this perfectly functional device and so getting support for this App was personally very important to me . I hope this helps other users .
Nope . In the stock keyboard provided by the API , a " Forward Delete " ( as opposed to a Backward Delete/Backspace ) , none of the keys , nor combination therein , provide a Delete keystroke to occur . Your only option , as you now see , is to use an external keyboard to accomplish this . Any other options would just be something else entirely . Like selecting a word , and deleting it , or using replace , etc. .
Screen A that you refer to is the original ' Apple ' home screen . Your observation is correct . The only time an app will install on screen A is when it is already present ( or moved by you ) and you are updating to a newer version of the app . All other new apps will be installed in the screen closest to what you define as Screen A when possible ( i.e. if Screen B is already full , it will go to screen C and so forth ) . New apps will never get installed into folders ( unless you update the app that is already within a folder )
According to Apple , yes , iOS 5 will support the iPhone 3GS . Apple 's <URL> for iOS 5 claims that iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS iPhone 4 iPod touch 3rd generation iPod touch 4th generation iPad iPad2
No , it does n't seem to be possible . If you are in satellite mode , it switches back to " standard " when you start the navigation . It 's a shame , that would be pretty cool .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
There really does n't seem to be a way to view this info at all on iOS 5 iPads , in Apple 's " Music " app . Further iPad iOS 5 podcast annoyances : If the main " Music " you listen to is podcasts , it 's really annoying that you can no longer promote the " Podcasts " button from " More " to the main view : so you always have to go to " More " to see your podcasts . If you have a mixture of video and audio podcasts , you have to switch between the " Videos " and " Music " apps to see them . For all these reasons , I gave up on the built-in iOS 5 podcast tools , and switched to <URL> . It costs a small amount of money , but has so many convenience features built in that it 's well worth it . ( It 's actually iPhone only - but works fine on iPad , at 2x size , even for showing videos ) I particularly like : It downloads the latest episode of shows you subscribe to , but seamlessly shows you earlier ones too , so you can easily stream them Automatic downloading via WiFi - so no more need to connect my device to a PC to update lots of podcasts Back and forward buttons to go move 30 seconds back or forwards - or you can change the settings , and make these buttons go back/forward 10 , then 20 then 30 seconds if clicked in quick succession . Small icon at top-right of screen shows/hide details of podcasts . Sleep facility ( 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , 90 minutes ) ( I 'd like to include a link to the original question here where I saw Podcaster first mentioned , but there are so many answers singing its praises , I really do n't remember which one I saw . ) Edit And to answer your question about Tiesto 's Club Life Podcast , yes , Podcaster displays that well . It shows the images as you listen , and at bottom-right of the screen there 's a little chapters icon that shows name of each chapter , and its position ( in minutes and seconds ) Furthermore , you can swipe upwards on the screen , when playing , to show the chapters .
Apple 's App Store requirements are very vague . <URL> for learning how to get your app rejected from the App Store . In short , it says nothing about backwards compatibility .
Is it mandatory to have an MFi device , to download an app for the Mfi device ? No . For instance you can download the <URL> apps and use them in demo mode without owning or attaching the hardware MFi device they interface with . You keep asking specifically about MFi devices , but there are also a number of non-MFi devices that connect through the headphone jack , such as credit card readers ( square , intuit , and others ) and heart rate monitors ( 60beat . com ) . So far Apple has allowed many of these devices and apps to be developed and sold in the app store , although they prefer people use the MFi program , it 's not always necessary .
It 's more that Safari was being boosted in 4.3 and that that boost was not available to Web Apps on the homescreen According to <URL> this is fixed in iOS 5 .
Since iOS 5 , you can do this straight from the Settings App . It 's located at .
end question
start question
Random iOS Mail App Freezes ?
Mine did this a couple times - I rebooted it ( and left it off for about 15 minutes , although this does n't make a difference in the real world I do n't think ) and the issue went away - although I presume you 've tried this . I 'd try properly restoring the software back to non-jailbroken state ( so you have fresh software entirely ) and then ( if necessary ) re-jailbreaking it . Otherwise , depending on your model , restore back to vanilla setup and take it into the Apple store .
You 're right Christian , I did n't even notice it but the gamecenter app has been removed . It is stated under gamekit in the IOS 10.0 <URL> Apparently it wo n't be missed by many :)
Here 's how I understand it . Mobile apps that run on iOS 7 can indeed be set up to ( either manually or automatically ) connect via VPN , but the devices have to be managed with OS X 10.9 as the backend VPN server and MDM . This is intended to separate the corporate connection ( which may be carrying sensitive data ) from the personal one . Functionally , a payload ( XML file ) will be pushed to the iOS device . The VPN payload is designated by specifying as the value . The VPN payload contains VPN connection information , but relevant to VPN-By-App , the key is enabled : If true , the Per-App VPN connection starts automatically when apps linked to this Per-App VPN service initiate network communication . Additionally , there is a VPNUUID key : A globally-unique identifier for this VPN configuration . This identifier is used to configure apps so that they use the Per-App VPN service for all of their network communication . And a SafariDomains key : This array contains strings , each of which is a domain that should trigger this VPN connection in Safari . So , the short answer to your question is Yes .
Edit : If you 're connecting an Exchange account or to a Google calendar via the Exchange setting , the Second Alert option is not available , because these systems do not support a second alert . If you are not connecting via the Exchange setting you can access the Second Alert like this : On your iPhone , start Calendar . Navigate to the day that has your event . Select the event , which brings up the Event Details . Click the Edit button . Scroll down until you see Alert . If the event does not already have an alert , it will say " none " and you click " none " to add an alert . Once the event has an alert , you will see a new entry just below it called Second Alert . It will say " none " and just like the first alert , you can click on it to add another alert .
Go to sent messages . <URL> Right click the message and click " Send again " <URL> This will open the message as you wanted .
This is currently not possible within iOS . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
The Nike + GPS with a foot sensor has two sorts of input and can be more reliable than apps that only rely on GPS . The main sources of foot sensor measurement error are : an odd gait ( which will throw off the foot accelerometer - even when calibrated ) incorrectly calibrated foot sensor your run routine typically covers several uneven stride lengths You might be better with a foot sensor over a pure GPS application , but it 's hard to tell in general . I find the hassle of a foot pod not worth the extra accuracy and use GPS only apps . The best for me is made by <URL> . Their GPS apps are superb and allow detailed control . The only downside is this adds complexity to the UI and you need to know a little to operate the tuning controls properly . ( I chose the <URL> over Cyclemeter or Walkmeter since I like a red color and the shoe icon 's looks - they are all exactly the same engine and you can use all of the settings on any app - you do n't need more than one to get all the route types . ) The developer is very responsive to email support - I was getting errors on my motorcycle settings and they guided me to get the accuracy I wanted since each activity type has some assumptions that can cause errors for some users . Depending on where and how you jog - this app allows you to tune and filter the raw GPS data to your liking . Since you can recreate this one path again and again , you should be able to get things dialed assuming it 's not a problem with jogging in a canyon or under heavy tree / large buildings where interference and multipath effects will render all GPS faulty .
If it is your app , you should probably notify Apple . If you are testing for someone else , notify the developer and Apple . It really is n't your fault . To your second question ( " Can Apple see the the app got installed on more than the usual 100 devices ) , I 'd say no . Because jailbroken users use methods such as iFunBox or vShare/AppCake , Apple has no way of keeping track of how many times the app was downloaded unless they used the Apple way . Finally , I 'd try to find out how your/the app was leaked .
The app wo n't get rejected . Apple do n't browse the source of your app -- they 're testing the functionality from a user 's point of view . Private API detection is left to iTunes Connect . You should still try to remove unused code from your app to make the app as small as possible for users .
The following script assumes that the photos to be renamed are in your Pictures folder . This will rename every file in your Pictures folder to a 10 character random string of letters and numbers while keeping the file extensions intact . If the files to be renamed are not in your Pictures folder then edit accordingly . The is simply a shortcut for the users home directory . So = . Note that the tells the script to match any file found in . Also note that you can change the number of characters generated by changing the number of to any number you like . Copy and paste this into a plain text file and name it something like : rename_pics . sh Open your Terminal ( use spotlight to find it if you do n't know it 's location ) In your Terminal type and press Enter Then type in your terminal and press Enter to run the script .
You can still compress a video and bypass Mail Drop when you compose a new email and manually attach the video ( by long clicking email body ) .
Krumelur Mail.app used to be able to see Public Folders on Exchange , but no longer has this ability . Outlook 2011 and Entourage both support this feature .
Edit > Substitutions > Untick " Smart dashes " . Then relaunch " TextEdit " . Same with " Mail " . To your third q : It is simply more beautiful . Personally I do n't like when people type long dashes by using two short ones . A tip : you can type long one even with " smart dashes " disabled with Option + - ( short dash ) .
I had a couple of e-mail accounts still set up in Mail which no longer existed on my mail server . I disabled these in System Preferences > Internet Accounts , and since then ( which is admittedly only three minutes ) , I have n't been able to reproduce the bug .
Looks like it 's restricted -- someone activated parental controls on your device . Go to Settings > General > Restrictions and scroll down until you see the Cellular data item , you can deactivate it there ( given you know the passcode ) .
This depends on several factors and is not generally tied to a fixed time schedule - active usage of the device , push notifications to apps , location based updates and iOS 7 's learning ability to optimize based on your usage patterns for apps . From <URL> ( bold italic emphasis mine ) : Certain tasks or services can continue to run in the background . To lessen the affect on battery life , normal app background refreshing is scheduled for efficient times , such as when your device is connected to Wi-Fi , plugged into a power source , or being actively used . You can adjust your apps ' background activity in Settings > General > Background App Refresh . When Background App Refresh is on , apps that take advantage of this feature can refresh themselves in the background . For example , an app can check if new content is available and download the updates , or retrieve the updated content in the background when it receives a push notification , so the new content is ready for viewing when you launch the app . Apps can also schedule background refreshing based on your location . iOS learns patterns based on your use of the device and tries to predict when an app should be updated in the background . It also learns when the device is typically inactive , such as during the night , to reduce update frequency when the device not used . To improve battery life , you could selectively turn off background refresh for certain apps from Settings > General > Background App Refresh .
Within Xcode you can specify that an app is iPad only under the " Deployment Info " section of the target 's General settings . Beyond that the way to limit an app to certain devices is by specifying features in the Info.plist under the key . You can see the options listed on Apple 's developer website here : <URL> Unfortunately there does not seem to be an option that limits an app to iPad Pro devices only . You can specify " arm64 " which will limit your app to iPad mini second generation and above , iPad Airs and iPad Pro devices . But I ca n't see an option that says devices that support Apple Pencil only .
The <URL> summarizes the most important new features . If it 's " really any better " or not , depends entirely on your personal taste : I do like Mail.app 's new list view where the list appears as a side bar , with chunks of message text in addition to the subject/sender information . You can further unclutter the interface by hiding the Mailboxes tree when you do n't need it . The search feature has also got better : things that used to require " Smart Mailboxes " ( multi-condition filters ) you can now do with a quick search in the search bar . Apple also seems to have stolen some good ideas from Google Mail -- like Thread view , which is activated in Mail for Lion by default , and groups together messages that belong to the same thread . A thread shows up only once in the message list , showing the number of messages . It 's very convenient to move/delete a whole thread in this way . Also a neat feature copied from Google : the quoted text of original emails in replies is hidden by default , but you can unfold it by clicking " show more " ( with a nice visual effect of unfolding paper ) . However , if you love Thunderbird 's special features , Mail.app is probably not for you . It 's missing the Thunderbird 's superb Tabs feature , i.e. you can only view one email folder / search result at a time ( this might actually bring me to consider switching to Thunderbird again ) . Personally , I like Mail.app because it 's much better integrated with the other OS X apps I use , such as Address Book , iCal and iChat . Example : I get an email from a colleague , and if she 's currently online in GoogleTalk/Jabber or Bonjour ( local network chat ) , a green dot appears next to her name directly in Mail . Ca n't have that with Thunderbird ... Other example : dates , times , addresses and phone numbers are recognized automatically in email text and can be added in one click as iCal event or to complete an Address Book entry . Also , I 'm not sure whether Thunderbird 's email database is indexed and searchable with Spotlight . Would n't want to miss this feature : searching for an email by subject or even message text without opening Mail in the first place .
If you uncheck " Live updating " in the smart playlist edit screen you will be able to delete tracks from the smart playlist . However the playlist wo n't repopulate until you right-click the playlist and select " Update Smart Playlist " . Interestingly that command does n't do anything unless the tracks have been deleted .
If you want to prevent usage of the app completely , you can enable restrictions ( Settings > General > Restrictions ) and turn off the toggle for News . iOS 10 also lets you delete default apps like News , but keep in mind that it could be re-downloaded from the App Store ( unless you enable the restriction for Installing Apps too ) .
end question
start question
Can we create seprate Apple ID for our each iOS device but share the same media library ?
Yes . Log in to the Apple ID that you want to use for iTunes and the App Store in the iTunes &amp; App Store section of settings , then log in to the individual Apple ID for the iCloud account . These will be kept separate and allow individual iCloud accounts but a shared iTunes Apple ID . Also , with the upcoming iOS 8 , you can use <URL> .
No , being enrolled within the Apple Developer 's Program does not provide you with any kind of special downgrade possibilities . In the other hand , being a Developer grants you the ability to upgrade to the newest yet-to-be-released version of iOS . So , being the iPad 2 <URL> for iOS 6 , you wo n't be able to upgrade it to iOS 5.1.1 instead , enrolled as a Developer or not .
You wo n't be able to take your existing Java binaries and run them on the iPad , since there is no Java Virtual Machine ( JVM ) on the iPad , nor can you install one . Apple does n't permit third-party language runtimes or plugins to be installed on iOS . <URL> your device may provide you with more freedom in that regard , but I 'll assume you 're not interested in that . ( If you are , see questions here tagged <URL> . ) The only remaining potential solution not involving jailbreak is to adapt and compile your software into a native iOS application . This will take some work . Since you mentioned your software is custom software , you should have the source code . With original source code and some not-so-trivial effort &amp; expertise , it is possible to port your custom software to a native iOS application . A natively-compiled , self-contained iOS application does n't require a runtime to be present on the device . There are a couple of ways to go about doing this : The orthodox way to develop iOS applications is to use Apple 's own <URL> &amp; <URL> . Your Java code can be translated , by a competent developer , into an Objective-C implementation for iOS . This is a considerable amount of work , yet is likely to yield the best end product . There also exists third-party development tools to enable apps to be created with other languages/frameworks , such as Java , C# , ActionScript , JavaScript -- to name a few . One such framework for Java in particular is <URL> . I have no experience with this -- I suggest more research if you want to follow this path . While the second approach allows more code re-use , there is still likely a considerable amount of development involved to adapt the application to a mobile form-factor . For follow-up questions about developing for iOS , please refer to <URL> .
No . You need his username and password to update . As alternative you can create an account for your company , and then download Xcode again .
I do n't think there is any enforced limit for using one account on lots of devices if all you care to do is use Find My Phone . You will run into the 10 device limit if you try to install apps using this ID , but just entering it into iCloud and only turning on FMP ( FMi / FMiP ??! ) should scale past the limits people normally reach when using one ID for multiple devices . Even if you get away with this , your users might get confused or wish to use Find My ... / iCloud themselves and find you have locked their device You might want to reach out to your Apple account rep to avoid running into several anti-fraud efforts that prevent this sort of mass scale deployment if you try to use one Apple ID for say the App Store on so many devices . In addition to that specifically being against the licensing terms , you will face delays if and when this account gets locked , so plan to test things out with a small group ( say 3-8 devices sharing one ID ) as a pilot before you decide how to manage all 100 devices . There are quite a few MDM packages available , but without knowing your specific situation , it will be hard for you to determine if automating some of the management will be a good investment or if you can just use the Apple Configurator to set up your deices and depend on the end users to manage their Apple ID/iCloud accounts and not mess with your one set up to track all the devices .
1 ) TouchID does support elevating privileges , but as of now , it only seems to be supported in Apple 's own apps . My guess is that 3rd party apps will have to be updated to support it , unfortunately . I still end up typing in my password a lot . 2 ) This PAM module will let you use TouchID for sudo in the terminal : <URL>
Maybe you have authorized Macs you no longer have . Go to your account in iTunes , under Apple ID Overview you can see how many computers you have authorized and ( once a year ) you can deauthorize all , after that you should be able to reauthorize your Macs . ( This does not affect iOS devices , as they do not count towards your 5 devices limit )
The first option should be the most reliable : Open Settings.app , scroll down and tap on " iTunes &amp; App Stores " . The Apple ID that the device is currently signed into will be at the top of the screen next to " Apple ID " . Alternate methods ( only on iOS 5 or newer ) : Settings.app > iCloud ( under " Account " ) Settings.app > Messages > Send &amp; Receive At ( under " Apple ID " ) Settings.app > Facetime ( under " Apple ID " )
Unfortunately the only way to share apps is to use the same Apple ID for purchases on every device . You can use different IDs for iCloud , but you need to sign into the App Store with the same ID . If you 're signed in to the App Store with the correct ID you can download previously purchased apps for free , each person haven their own computer and iTunes library does n't matter .
Go to settings > iTunes &amp; App Stores > Apple ID : Select sign out , that will clear your stored password ... Then you can enter the proper information .
I was going to start explaining you what you can ( and ca n't ) do or how hard was this going to be , but a single google query lead me to this <URL> an Apple forum . I 'm going to quote the relevant part , but I suggest you read it all because there 's more information there and more " why " questions . We assume you have copied all the music to a Central location ( be it a machine or a NAS drive or whatever ) , so somewhere in the network or your harddrive all your music files ( library ) are accessible to your wife and you ( and theoretically both can write to that location , important when adding files ) . It does n't matter if they are in different computers or just accounts . With that in mind : Each future user of the library should launch iTunes with the Option key held down and Create Library . ( A blank one ) . With this new iTunes window open , go into iTunes Preferences and UN-check " Keep iTunes Music folder organised " and " Copy files to iTunes Music folder when adding to library " . Then , they must add the music to the Library , selecting the tracks from the folder where all the music is stored ( the common place mentioned above ) , which will import all the tracks into this new Library without copying the files again ( hence why step # 2 ) . From this point they can create their own playlists and stuff and they can even check the things they unchecked in step # 2 , in case they decide to add new tracks ( see drawback ) , you 'll want to have them in the central location . From this point they both have a Library.XML ( stores playlists , tracks location , etc. ) and that library.xml points to the physical mp3/4 on the " common location " ( tracks are not duplicated as you requested ) . DRAWBACK ( and the fact that there 's no better solution ) : If either user of the library adds new music , regardless of the " keep music organized " and " copy files " checkboxes , the other user ( s ) are not going to see the changes . The reason being that they are modifying their local copy of the library " xml " ( which is where all the playlist and stuff is stored ) . If USER1 adds 1 track , USER2 will have to find the track in the library and manually add it to his/her own library . As you can see , iTunes was not really designed for multiuser . Go ahead and read the post , it will give you more pros/cons and maybe other ideas . EDIT : one way to know " what is new " in the library folder ( where the music is actually stored ) would be to create a smart folder that shows files added in the last " xx " days ( for example ) . :)
Yes . Follow the instructions in <URL> or <URL> . Essentially , the procedure is this : Pairing your remote with your Mac : Log in on your Mac as an Admin user . Get very close to your Mac ( about 3 or 4 inches away ) . Point the remote at the infrared sensor on the front of your Mac . Press and hold the Menu and Next/Fast-forward buttons simultaneously on the remote for 5 seconds . Your Apple Remote is now paired with your computer . You should see a chain-link style lock appear in the center of your screen for a moment . To pair your Apple TV with a remote : Choose Settings > General > Remotes from the main Apple TV menu . Choose Pair Apple Remote .
No , there is no way to create or edit contact groups on iOS . I share your frustration ! The best workaround is to use iCloud.com ( or your primary Mac , if you have it with you ) . Also , there is a way to add contacts to a specific group on iOS , though it 's not obvious : In Contacts , tap the Groups button in the top left Tap " Hide All Contacts " Tap the group that you want to add the contact to ( making it the only visible group ) Tap Done in the top right Tap the Add button ( ) in the top right Now when you create and save the contact , it 'll save it in that specific group . You can then go back to the Groups list and reenable all your groups .
It a not possible to create a non-email address Apple ID any longer . As a matter of fact , they are becoming more and more inconvenient , as various Apple services begin to assume that your Apple ID is an email . If you have not started to notice it yet , trust me , you will , soon . I recently changed my non-email Apple ID to the linked email address . You can change the username of an Apple ID without starting a new account .
As far as I know , the iPhone 4 is the only device capable of running iOS 7 that ca n't be updated to iOS 8 . Ref : Wikipedia - <URL> - &amp; others
You ca n't , as Apple does n't provide this ability . From <URL> : You can not merge two or more Apple IDs into a single one . You can , however , use one Apple ID for iCloud services and another Apple ID for store purchases ( including iTunes in the Cloud and iTunes Match ) . You can keep using all the old apps , but they wo n't update without the original password for the original Apple ID . In practice , you will eventually tire of the prompts or delete the apps in question . In the short term , you can use them all without needing the other account name or password .
You have to use a single apple id in iTunes homesharing on all devices that you want on your appleTV BUT This does not mean that you ca n't buy anything anymore with your personal apple ID everything you buy will still be placed in your library and will be shared on the ' family ' apple ID account <URL>
It depends on the <URL> used by your external hard drive . Most likely , the file system is <URL> which allows both Mac and PC to read from and write to it , so you would be fine to just plug it into your Mac . It could however be <URL> which is Microsoft file system that PCs can read and write to but Macs can only read . In this case , you 'll still be able to read all of the files on the drive and copy them to your Mac , you just wi n't be able to add any more files or alter the files while they 're still on the drive . To tell what file system the drive is , just right-click it in Windows and select Properties , the file system should be shown in the General tab . If the drive is NTFS you have a few options : You could <URL> to FAT32 or exFAT . You could install <URL> on your Mac which allows you to write to NTFS drives . You could share wirelessly from your Windows machine . You 'll have to Google this yourself as it 's different for each version of Windows and you have n't said which version you 're using , but it 's fairly easy .
You can not . It 's not possible to share content from one Apple ID to another . Apple actually recommends everyone have their own Apple ID . You can load the content on your daughter 's device and she can access them all normally . You can then log her into her own Apple ID , where she can begin to make her purchases on her own account . The only downside is she will have to know your Apple ID 's password as iOS will ask for it on rare occasions ( when restoring the device for example ) . It 's possible to store content from multiple Apple accounts on a single device , the user will just need to enter the password should the OS ever require it . That is the only feasible solution in your case ( other than starting over ) . This will at least circumvent having to re-purchase any content . This has always been a sore spot for Apple customers as they have historically been very firm in never being able to even close an Apple ID , let alone share content between them . You can read more about Apple IDs here : <URL>
The only way to start a new conversation , or thread , is if the recipient has a different email address . For example , multiple emails can be stored under one contact , but messages sent to and from different emails are stored in a new thread .
end question
start question
what is the style of command line editing used by the terminal emulator ?
OS X ships with and you will want to to get vi-style commands . A very popular choice is and the many customization packages like <URL> . Neither she 'll is fully in either style by default . For emacs style , it 's similar - see <URL> : You switch between the two modes in bash , zsh or ksh with set - o vi or set - o emacs , and with bindkey - e or bindkey - v in tcsh or zsh .
2 things : 1 ) They are not " made for " PCs , they may simply come pre-formatted . If they are USB , they will almost certainly work with any OS known to man that supports USB 2 ) NTFS support is read only , you can not write ( without 3rd party software ) but you can format as Fat 32 or EXFAT etc and have the drive be read/write by almost any OS including Windows/Mac/Linux etc /
is a binary available in a set of tools <URL> . It can also be installed via Homebrew with . <URL> is a SH shell script that calls AppleScript to create an alias . I 'm including the shell script here for future reference incase it goes missing from the nets .
That 's because you downloaded some app using that old ID . When the app downloaded using that ID tries to update , it asks for the password of that ID .
It should continue , if your script has any error-handling for loosing connection to the database ( assuming off-site DB ) . Though the exact behaviour is hard to predict without seeing the actual code . Sleeping the system may also leed to unexpected results in the script .
What is the benefit of using flash memory in the Macbook Air ? How does the use flash memory compare to SSDs ? What are the benefits ? The Macbook Air uses an SSD . Apple markets it as merely flash memory because in the consumer market there are only two storage types - flash and hard drives . The typical consumer Apple is aiming for does not know what SSD is , nor do they care . But they do know what a " flash drive " is , and due to aggressive marketing they believe it 's better than the alternative . It 's a custom form-factor SSD , but it uses a SATA flash controller , and the Air reads it just as if it were any other SATA drive . OS X does , however , understand it as an SSD and treats it slightly differently from a hard drive in order to use it to its full potential , but in every other respect it 's just a custom form factor SSD . The reason Apple uses a custom form factor SSD is for size , weight , and - most important to Apple - cost . They have both Toshiba and Samsung on the line for supplying these SSDs . When they get a poor price from one , they go to the other . They need this because the SSD is one of the few things in the Air that requires custom PCB layout and comes from multiple suppliers . The pinouts and circuitry are different between the samsung and toshiba flash controllers , so they ca n't build them into the main PCB as Apple would prefer , without locking them into one vendor or the other . The flash market is so volatile right now that they ca n't lock themselves into just one supplier , especially since some 80 % of Apple 's revenue comes from products that use copious amounts of flash . If they thought they could get a better price manufacturing their own flash , they 'd have their own plant - or ten . Instead it 's cheaper to play the major flash producers against each other to get the lowest cost . So : The Storage in the Air is a SATA interfaced SSD It 's not on the main PCB to give them the ability to use different parts from different suppliers It 's not a 2.5 " , 1.8 " , or SATA slim interface because they needed it to be smaller - they designed their own interface , but it 's still SATA , just with a different low insertion force connector They are n't using the latest and greatest chipsets due to cost and power consumption They are n't using hard drives due to size , weight , and power consumption
OS X ships with and you will want to to get vi-style commands . A very popular choice is and the many customization packages like <URL> . Neither she 'll is fully in either style by default . For emacs style , it 's similar - see <URL> : You switch between the two modes in bash , zsh or ksh with set - o vi or set - o emacs , and with bindkey - e or bindkey - v in tcsh or zsh .
To start emacs just type emacs ↩ This tells the shell to look for an executable file emacs in a directory listed in the PATH environment variable . When in emacs run the command tetris that is escxtetris The controls are the arrow keys Note that something seems to be wrong with the score file e.g. it wo n't save high scores etc. .
The shift modifier has been around for most animated sequences since at least Panther ( 10.3 ) . I do n't know that there was ever an official reason given but it 's widely assumed that it was built in at the request of Steve Jobs in order for him to highlight Expose ' as he announced it to the world at the 2003 World Wide Developers Conference . You can see this announcement here , with the slow motion effect being used for the first time around the 2:00 min mark . <URL> Given the crowd 's reaction I think it 's clear why Apple did n't remove it from the final version . It 's always been one of those little easter eggs that Mac users use to impress their PC using friends . So there you go , no practical purpose , just a bit of fun for Apple . You can also use shift to slow down most functions that have an animation . Minimizing windows , opening Mission Control , etc. .
I decided that the best way to identify the file being downloaded was to write a small script that fetched the files held open by the App Store program . I set variable to the PID of by extracting it from the command using and Then I use to list open files by the PID of and I print out the size of the files and the files path . If you do this several times in succession you can see the file ( s ) that 's growing and make a good guess by its size that it is the OS download .
You can cancel current command with ⌃ CTRL + c . You can clear command to the beginning with ⌃ CTRL + u. To clear line after the cursor press ⌃ CTRL+K . Here are some great answers on <URL> .
AirDrop works outside of whatever WiFi networks are around and does n't need a base station . It is like a mesh network where all the devices just talk between each other . If nothing else is " sharing " the road - you get the full speed . The further away you are or the more interference , the slower it gets . AirDrop will work by passing the data from Mac to Mac so it will get the file there ( although slower ) if it has to jump once or twice along the way . That being said , for two close machines , the transfer speed should be the max wireless speed between your two machines . Hard drives are almost always faster reading and writing than WiFi speeds , so the radio link is generally the slowest . However , all of that is just theoretical . You can check your actual speed by opening Applications > Utilities > Activity Monitor Click the Network tab on the bottom and you should see stats about how fast the data is being sent and received . Detach from WiFi base stations to let AirDrop get all the hardware if you want the fastest transfers - leave it on if you need internet while dropping that large file .
I frequently reinstall MacPorts ( e.g. , when there 's a new major version of Xcode ) so I keep a file with a list of my essential ports for easy reinstalling . Here 's my list of essential software that does n't come with OS X . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
iTunes Essentials . Full list here : <URL> Most popular lists are shown on the main page , and you can browse them all alphabetically .
I think it depends on how many tools/libraries you need to install . If just git then use Xcode 4 which you will need for any port package . If you are doing pure HTML/Javascripy/CSS then the git installer will work . For python and perl and similar interpreters the the language install tools can be used unless there are complex C/C + + libraries If only a few others then build into / usr/local However if you have several things to install or there are complex dependencies then I would use a ports package like Fink , macports or homebrew ( which is best is debatable and should be a separate discussion )
There is a change log available , you can find it <URL> . This is what it says about siri : Siri Manually control when Siri listens by holding down the home button while you speak and releasing it when you 're done as an alternative to letting Siri automatically notice when you stop talking New , more natural sounding male and female voices for Mandarin Chinese , UK English , Australian English , and Japanese And the change log you mentioned is n't updated because there was no need for it , I verified on my iPhone running iOS 7.1 and there are no new languages in addition to the list you posted . On the developer portal there is another change log <URL> that shows all changes in different versions . It is a lot more technical than the " consumer log " .
The short answer is yes - the 4G on the iPhone 4S is merely a label change for AT&amp;T 's HSPA + network . More info can be found in <URL> . From <URL> for the iPad 2 : Wi-Fi + 3G for AT&amp;T UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) From <URL> for the iPhone 4s : UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz )
I am 99.9 % sure that the choice is Door # 3 ( Door # 4 is the other ) .
Yes . There is a product called <URL> . The best part is that it 's <URL> One of the features of iTerm2 is that you can remap any of the keys including the ones you asked about . For instance , I remapped Ctrl + Tab to send the text it it worked perfectly . <URL> After hitting Ctrl + Tab , it sends the keystroke : <URL>
This answer is in two parts . If you 're after all the preference files associated with iTunes then the list is relatively short . If you want every file that iTunes accesses then the list is going to be vastly and incredibly long and also very difficult to track down . If you can offer some more context of what reason you 're trying to track these down maybe I can help you isolate files related to your needs . All of iTunes preference files : File ( Primary ) : Located at : Files : | | Located at : Hidden File : Located at : All of the settings you set/change in the iTunes application are represented in the two primary preference files . The one in the ByHost folder above and the other main one called above . Hope that helps .
end question
start question
What apps are people using to record voice meetings on the iPad ?
A different approach is to use an app like <URL> or <URL> which not only can record notes , but also integrate with other note taking tools . Evernote is strong for tagging notes with location and time of capture . Notability is stronger since it allows you to draw notes , sketches or type notes while recording . Once the session is over , you can tap on your notes to queue the sound to the time when you wrote that specific note . It 's got reasonably good options for audio recording , but no audio editing features -- but if the combination of note-taking and audio notes appeals , it 's pretty ideal . If you just need a simple - fast - press one button and go app - try out <URL> . It 's snappy and works from the Apple Watch to the iPad Pro .
First you should figure out whether or not compression is worth it . This depends largely on the type of content you 're storing . If the content is not compressible ( JPEG images , most video formats , ZIP archives , etc. ) , there 's little benefit and the added overhead of decompression may even cause a ( minor ) slowdown in file access . HFS + compression is most likely the wrong tool , for several reasons . First , compression is n't transparent , only decompression is . That is , if a file is stored compressed , it will be transparently decompressed when being read , but a newly created file will not be compressed by default . Worse , when you overwrite or append to a compressed file , it will once again be stored without HFS + compression . Therefore , if you wanted to use HFS + compression with user data , you would need to copy the entire volume first ( using ditto or afsctool ) , file by file . On 60 TB this might take rather a long time . Furthermore you would regularly have to run a process that determines which files were added/modified recently ( or are n't compressed ) and ( re ) compresses those . As the ditto man page states , HFS + compression " is only intended to be used in installation and backup scenarios that involve system files " . It 's great for your folder , but not very suitable for your filer . Only if you 're really desperate for capacity and have a lot of files that never get written to I would even consider it . Key being desperate :) I 'm not aware of any transparent file system level compression packages for OS X. ZFS supports transparent file system compression , but switching your filers OS and FS may not be an option ( since sadly there 's no complete ZFS implementation for Mac OS X ) .
I use <URL> to get information like this . In the right sidebar of every page , it shows the total stats of all the app stores . For example , as of 18 Sep 2011 at 5:10 pm GMT , the sidebar shows : Total Apps Total Apps Approved : 595452 Total Available Apps : 462144 Total Available iPhone Apps : 411134 Total Available iPad Apps : 132388 Total Available Mac Apps : 6939
I jailbroke my iPhone 4 few weeks ago , specifically for the MyFi , which allows you to tether your 3G connection to your other WiFi-enabled devices ( iPad , laptop , etc ) , without paying $ 20 to AT&amp;T every month and being limited by 2Gb of data . MyFi is $ 19.99 , but you pay it once and enjoy free tethering after that , especially if you kept your $ 30 unlimited data plan ( I did ) . Initially beyond that I saw very little reason to use other apps from Cydia store , but now I slowly changing my mind , since I found few real gems . SBSettings - gives you quick panel to toggle WiFi , Bluetooth , 3G and few other functions . This is extremely handy , especially when you 're trying to preserve your battery ( long day on the conference or something ) and you do n't want to dive into Settings each time you want to turn WiFi on or off . SBSettings is free Notified Pro - this is notification management done right . Notifications have horrible usability in iOS and this app ( $ 4.00 for Pro version , but I think they have the light one for free as well ) fixes it by introducing notifications list similar to one Android has , which you can activate from status bar or via other customized shortcuts Frash - which is Flash for iPhone , right in your mobile Safari . Frankly I have n't use it for anything serious yet ( and it does n't support my favorite Flash game <URL> ) , but it 's a good app to wow your friends , since everyone knows that there 's no Flash on the iPhone and you can always prove people wrong . My favorite app IntelliScreen - it 's a paid app as well , but it 's extremely handy . It gives you a highly customizable lock screen very similar to Windows Mobile 's Today screen , so you can look at your calendar , emails , SMS and other info without even unlocking your phone . Really , really handy . One other thing that I did n't try personally yet , but going to soon is sync with your PC or Mac over WiFi . I hate to do it over a cable . Now , on the bad side : You have to be more careful and knowledgeable about stuff you 're installing . That includes both apps ( which are , in general , more buggy and may conflict with each other or with iOS ) and stuff like official Apple iOS updates that you ca n't install unless you know that there 's a jailbreak for them . Cydia store ( and others like RockYou app store ) are less informative than AppStore and quite often it 's hard to figure out what certain app does Payment ( while they allow multiple ways including AMazon payments and PayPal ) is usually much more painful Apps quite often are more expensive ( think $ 4.99 - $ 9.99 range ) , but on the bright side they worth it
The bars on the phone are representation for Voice signals . A full bar will mean you will have the clear calls , on the other hand , the data can be seen by the type of Data service you are getting , LTE ,3 G ( WCDMA ) , H or 3.5 G ( HSPA ) and E ( EDGE ) . Despite having the full connection bars you may have an E ( For EDGE ) which may give a slower network connection . It 's the same thing the other way round as well , Despite getting a LTE network you may not be getting full bars , It depends on the Network tower you are connected to , the data it supports . Generally near the areas with people using less Internet over the network the companies put up towers which are good for voice signals .
I use the Wikipanion free version on my iPad and there 's a Wikipanion Plus available that supports offline viewing . I 'm happy with Wikipanion on my iPad and iPhone . Hope that helps !
Apple introduced Bootcamp in 2006 as a beta for OSX Tiger . ( <URL> ) So it 's since 2006 that the Macbooks are able to install Windows . However a <URL> specify that the oldest Macbooks are n't compatible with Windows 7 . NB : Notice that laptops powered by PPC processors were called iBooks &amp; PowerBooks . Macbooks ( Pro ) are only powered by Intel processors .
I did a switch from Linux just a week ago . I am using Linux for 15 + years . Lately my Desktop distro of choice was Ubuntu . Mac OS X is a BSD based system , so minor issues you will have to get used to is staff like using ipfw instead of iptables . As you will pretty soon realise Ubuntu ( and other distros ) simply mimic lots of Mac solutions when it comes to usability . You will find yourself beeig very familiar with a lot of Gui elements . There is virtually no difference from a developer point of view . You can just install rvm and develop your ruby apps as you used too . Main difference is , that now you can use the famous Textedit ! :D As for the drawbacks : Mac has worse package management and you might miss some fancy features of apt-get / dpkg ( or yum / rpm ) . Its not groundbreaking however and Homebrew will be suffcient in the end anyway . There are various minor things like key shortcuts , window management which takes couple of hours to get used to . I for one ca n't get whats the idea behind ho the window maximization works . In the end I must say that I do n't miss a thing so far . I got everything I loved about Linux + beautiful system which can Starcraft and Photoshop . :-)
I found the direct download links for . ipsw files from <URL> . The links below are for build 11A465 of iOS 7.0 : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Should you be a reviewer or get lucky with an early delivery , the 5c and 5s firmware update - build 11A470a of iOS 7.0.1 are below courtesy of an <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , I 'd kindly remind people to not be greedy - downloading all the builds means someone else looking for one build might be prevented from getting a download .
Pros : All works . Easy to use . Easy to Configure . Does Backups of your data . Allows iTS purchases . Handles everything for you . And every other iTunes feature that you might consider important ( AirTunes for example ) . Cons : iTunes might be a " heavy " application for some machines with limited RAM . Even if all you want is a music player , iTunes is all or nothing .
I do n't know if the built-in keyboard viewer is sophisticated enough , but it should highlight pressed keys . If you do not see those options , make sure it is checked off under your System Preferences > Keyboard There are also apps like <URL> that display bezel elements for pressed keys .
Use <URL> to resize your existing partitions . Make a bootable disc or USB stick . And be careful , Gparted can easily destroy your data . If this does n't work then you will probably struggle to find any other option . There is no way to my knowledge to change MBR to GPT without destroying all of the partitions and their associated data .
You should read the big Siracusa 's Lion review in <URL> . The gist of it is , no , every time another program tries to access the file ( e.g. you 're trying to send it in Mail , upload it in safari ) what the other program will get is the current version you 're looking at . Nothing else . See more at this particular <URL>
I would really go with <URL> , I can say from experience that It will allow you to use check boxes , radio buttons etc. . You would be able to export a Google doc to an excel file and then open in numbers . If you do choose to export a Google Doc file into an excel file you could also use dropbox to open and edit it in another office based app , with that you may be able to use checks and radio buttons , as long as they already exist in the doc . A very good solution is <URL> You can also try a lot of other free office tools such as <URL>
There are a great many apps which offer very little in terms of functionality , and essentially advertise a company and accessories ( such as the Jabra and Plantronics apps ) and some which just display information about select services of the company . There are also many apps which require specific infrastructures to be in place for an organisation to even use the app which offer no functionality for the average user , such as Good for Enterprise , or Excitor DME . As long as it complies with the submission guidelines , there 's no reason Apple would reject it .
Games Internet Explorer : If you are a web developer and want to test your website in IE ( which you have to ) . Also some corporate intranet applications work only on IE ( 6/7/8 compatibility mode ) . Microsoft Office : Yes , there is a version for the Mac , but some prefer the Windows version ( I remember reading sometime before somewhere , ( unable to find the link ) that the Windows version is better ) . Also , people like me who have a Windows PC ( my wife 's ) and a Macbook Pro at home , I can buy one Office Home and Student edition ( it comes with licence for 3 installs ) and use it on both . Learning Windows specific technology . For instance I want to learn C# . C# is best learnt in Microsoft Visual Studio ( IMHO ) . Games Games Games There was something else too ... oh yeah , games .
Try rebooting the iPad to free up some memory . Hold the lock button until the " slide to power off " slider comes on , slide it , then turn the iPad back on .
Apple does not allow SMS nor Phone replacement apps in the App Store , so this will never be possible without jailbreaking . Since you indicated you would prefer not to jailbreak , you will not be able to do this . The closest you will be able to get would be to use a third-party SMS service which may either cost or perhaps force you into using a different phone number for SMS specifically with that app . You will need to review third-party apps available to see if they provide a custom keyboard to do what you wish to do . Long story short : Built-in ? Not possible outside of jmlumpkin 's suggestion .
I just had the same problem and I solved it . My iPhone apps were very often in German but my iPhone was in Swedish . The problem is : I believe that your iPad 's secondary language is set to Russian ( Apps display in the first language they find on your list for which they have a localization included ) . So I believe that if you change your secondary language you should have apps in your desired language . To change secondary language , go to Settings > General > International > Language and choose whatever language you want ( presumably English in your case ) as secondary language . Then , when the language is set , switch back to your original language and you shall be all set .
Yes , it is possible . This method works with at least iOS 9 . Make sure your iPhone is locked Press the lock key on the top of your iPhone to brighten it , without unlocking it completely Slide the bottom right camera icon half way up , and do n't let go . Keep your finger in this way Slide the camera modes to video , again keeping your finger on the camera slider mode still half way up Tap the big red record button in the bottom middle of the screen ; again , keeping your finger still on the camera slider mode still half way up . Do n't worry if it does n't show the recording happening . Double press the home button three times , Keep your finger still half way on the slider , until the iPhone automatically turns off its screen . This will take about 10 seconds regardless of what settings you 've kept in the auto lock feature That 's it . With the screen off , your iPhone is recording a video . To end the recording and save the video , simply unlock the iPhone Source : <URL>
end question
start question
Is there a way to permanently " Deny " an application incoming network connections ( i.e. no more prompts ) ?
No not really , when you open a program whatever core process it calls into action are run every time . One of which will , in your case , checks on the various permissions it has to make or accept outgoing/incoming connections . The act of double clicking and opening the application ( even after choosing to deny such privileges ) will overwrite/trash your past decisions to DENY incoming/outgoing connections simply because you gave it permission to open ( not when you ACCEPT though - in this case any previously accepting connections will not continue to ask for your permission ) . Unless there is a setting within the application 's " Preferences " or you change some code within the " Contents " of its bundle then it is highly likely that it will prompt you every time . BTW these permissions requests are meant to alert and pop up every time to keep users from making " permanent decisions " ( AKA turning off popup notification and permission requests ) . Without the popup requests , switching permissions settings back and forth would become a much more difficult task and more than likely need the help of a genius bar rep to switch them back and forth ( for the not-so-savvy users at least ) .
The only application I can think of is <URL> ; its purpose is to use an iPone/iPod/iPad as mouse to control a Mac . One of its features allows to have some icons on the iPod/iPhone that invoke some applications on the Mac ; by default , the icons shown on the iPod/iPhone are the ones that appear in the Dock , but you can select a directory containing the applications or the scripts you want to execute . The last screenshot shows the list of icons shown when I select a directory containing other directories ; when you hover over an icon , the application shows the icon name , in the same way the Finder does . The icons with an indicator light are running applications . The server application is available from the App Store , while the application for iOS is available from the iTunes App Store .
<URL> find any application or file this app will learn and prioritize your searches system commands and extended features ( google search , bitly ... ) you can get more powerful features when purchasing the <URL> <URL> find any application or file this app will learn and prioritize your searches lots of free <URL> with extend the functionalities move files execute bash commands ... Spotlight ( built-in ) ... which is part of the OS and be triggered using & #x 2318 ; + space ( default shortcut ) .
iOS does not have an option for this , nor does apple approve apps which alter the status bar . If you want this function you will have to jailbreak your iOS device and install a third party status monitor . As pointed out in another answer , LockInfo does this . SBSettings used to , but no longer does . If you 're running an iOS 4.x device , OpenNotifier might be useful as it does this as well as give you pull-down notifications similar to android and iOS 5 . If you 're developing for this device , however , you can add this function yourself . As a developer you can run custom code without jailbreaking the device - you just ca n't submit that code to the app store . The trick , then , is going to be finding example code for this feature . I expect someone in the jailbreaking community will have some info on what the code needs to do , and if you 're lucky you 'll find an open source project for it . Then you can compile and sign it yourself , and as long as you keep your ad-hoc license current and recompile/re-sign it yearly , you can use it on your personal devices . I think a lot of developers overlook the fact that they can run any code they want on their own devices without jailbreaking . They can also distribute such apps in a limited manner to their friends using adhoc distribution as well . It looks like OpenNotifier is open source , and has the functionality you need : <URL> I do n't know much about the status of the project , but it might be usable for you as a developer to bring this functionality to your devices .
You do n't need to use a separate application . You can share wi-fi without any app . Go to System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing : You will be prompted to enter a network name and a password ( if you choose to ) . It does also require you to have a hard-wired Internet connection . ( If you are wondering why my sharing checkbox is greyed out , it 's because I do n't have a hard-wired connection ) You can also click on the Airport icon in the menu bar and then click " Create Network ... "
Your answer is Hold down Shift and click the red * button *
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
If you can transfer the document to a general-purpose app that " knows " about files ( like <URL> , <URL> , or iBooks ) , you should be able to access it from the file-handling dialog from within iTunes . Most computers can create an ad-hoc WiFi network ; using this , you 'd use a network-sharing app ( like <URL> ) to mount a disk from your iPhone and transfer the files to your computer .
I think you would need two things in order to make this work . 1 . You would need a hex editor that was tied into whatever black magic Apple is using to provide QuickLook . 2 . You would probably need to set hex editor as the default application for handling the specific file type ... In short ... no , I do n't think you can do it out of the box .
I 've just checked the <URL> , and there is an option to completely disable the ability to upgrade iOS .
<URL> BetterTouchTool allows you to set a trigger to move a window to a second monitor , such as the one below : Trigger : Doubleclick Window Titlebar ; Predifined Action : Move Window to Next Monitor Alternatively , a mouse button , keyboard shortcut , Apple Remote , Magic Mouse or trackpad gesture could be set up as the trigger . <URL> Slate is an extremely customisable tool that allows you to set window layouts/positions through keyboard shortcuts . Combining this with a BTT gesture , you can create a gesture-driven window movement tool for free ! Slate is a window management application similar to Divvy and SizeUp ( except better and free ! ) . Originally written to replace them due to some limitations in how each work , it attempts to overcome them by simply being extremely configurable . As a result , it may be a bit daunting to get configured , but once it is done , the benefit is huge .
Try <URL> ( <URL> ) . It has convenient toggles in Notification Center and Apple Watch .
Indeed there is . You can try <URL> - it encodes video on the fly and sends it straight to your AppleTV . I 've used it for a while now , and although it can be a little unstable from time to time , it really is very useful . Of course , you could always install XBMC following <URL> and control it , play all sorts of video , and make tons on neat customizations however you see fit . Good luck .
you are right changing the names may have unforeseen consequences later . You can make a new folder somewhere . Named Apps . Or what ever you want to name it . Then create alises to the applications Placing the aliases in the new folder . You can name the aliases what ever you like and have the new folder in the dock . 1 , Create the Aliases . Drag Applications to your new folder . They should automatically choose to be alias files because you are dragging from the Applications folder . The cursor should become a curved arrow while you are dragging . If not then hold down the alt + cmd keys to make the copies allies files . 2 , Now rename the alias files what ever you want . This will not affect the real files . I have just named some of them here 3 , Place the Folder in the Dock . And now when you go to it the Alias file will look like the real apps . Have your names and open the real apps . You can Also just place any of the Alias files directly on the Dock .
That 's actually pretty easy , you just double click the icon in the Menubar .
You can still access data from " dee 's backup " by selecting " Browse Other Time Machine Disks " from Time Machine 's Dock menu . ( Right click or click-and-hold on TM 's icon in the Dock . ) TM is holding onto both sets of data because even though YOU know you copied all the data from the old machine to the new , all TM knows is that a bunch of data just showed up on the new machine . It does n't know where that data came from , but knows it should be backed up . When TM , running on " dee 's Macbook Pro " , needs to delete files to make room , it can only delete files backed up from " dee 's Macbook Pro " . Even the root user on that machine has no authority ( and can not give TM authority ) do delete some other computer 's backup files . You do n't need any of " dee 's iMac " backup . As you say , everything from that computer got copied over , and none of it has been needed since last year . It 's time to let it go . To do that , open the Backups.backupdb folder on your backup disk , and delete the subfolder named " dee 's iMac " . ( I 'm assuming you 're backing up to an external disk connected to your MBP . Details will be different if you 're backing up to a Time Capsule or a network volume , but the principle is the same . ) Time Machine wo n't let you modify that backup in any way except that it will allow you to delete it in its entirety . You 'll need to authenticate as an admin to do that . And it will take a while . You should be able to delete it using Finder , but if not you can enter the Terminal command :
Regarding your comment on Paul 's answer , wanting to leave your computer for a moment : you have to lock your computer . Period . Open System Preferences , click Security ( top row , second to last option ) , under the " General " tab , check the box for " Require password [ immediately ] after sleep or screen saver begins " . Then , when you go to walk away from your computer ; <URL> ( Additional notes : Click the above line . ) Lock your Mac . Walk away . Come back , enter your password to unlock it . Secured console .
I had something similar happen to me once . What I did was to go into the Preferences for RDC , and in the tab , remove the value for the parameter . That did the trick for me .
Assuming you are using bash : If you activate emacs shortcuts with you can also use Emacs to edit the command line : Type Ctrl-XCtrl-E at the prompt to start Emacs Paste and edit your clipboard content into the Emacs buffer Use Ctrl-XCtrl-C to exit Emacs and automatically run the command ( s ) .
Generally , it does not affect , but there are some apps that do n't properly work when you do it . The only way to know is trying it . In the worst case , you can revert the changes without issues . About accessing keychain , same thing , usually you wo n't have problems . I have n't tested auto-update . I usually did it with old versions of apps , to have both old and new ones .
end question
start question
Does the Apple Watch really identify " you " ?
As far as I can tell its just means as long as it 's connected via bluetooth and in range . There is n't a Touch ID scanner on the watch or anything like that so I do n't think that it forms an knid of " signature " to you .
Apparently Apple Watch has Airplane Mode , which turns off both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi . [ To ] Turn on Airplane Mode . Swipe up on the watch face , swipe to the Settings glance , then tap the Airplane Mode button . The Connected status at the top of the screen changes to Disconnected . Or open the Settings app settings icon , then tap Airplane Mode . When Airplane Mode is on , you 'll see [ Airplane mode icon ] at the top of the screen . Source : <URL> .
Yes - all computer batteries from Apple ( including the newer unibody models where the battery is not consumer replaceable ) are easily swapped in a 10 minute procedure to open , inspect , replace , test and document the repair . Of course , your wait time might be longer if no one is free to start work immediately or the part needs to be retrieved from a nearby stock room . If the part is n't in stock , Apple should be able to quote you a delivery time to order the part , and discuss if you want to leave the Mac for service , choose mail in service or leave with your mac and return later to get the repair done as same - or next-day service once the part and the Mac are in the shop together . Since you called AppleCare and explained your symptoms , my guess is they can not run the diagnostics remotely to establish a true failure ( or if you agree to pay for the repair ) and pre-order the part before you present the Mac for repair in the store . My experience is each store has sufficient stock to do several repairs of a battery type , but that being said , I 've also gone in on a busy day where they had three machines needing the same part as I and I was the third in line and therefore had the option of leaving the Mac or waiting for the part to arrive . Worst case , you get a diagnosis and do n't leave the machine in for repair , but have options to pre-order the part when you return or find another store . If the store mails in your Mac for repair , often it can get overnighted to a return location of your choosing and clearly wherever they ship the machine will be same day service for an in-stock battery at the main repair depot .
Mail is like many apps that use the network - it ca n't just quit if there is network traffic active , it needs to see those requests safely terminated . If for example Mail is checking your iCloud account it needs to wait a certain time until all processes are complete before exiting . It may also be sending an email that you have just hit " Send " on , and then you have immediately tried to quit - ca n't work that way . Even if the network communication is asynchronous these things need to be tidied up before exiting .
So it 's been a long time since I originally posted this question . I did n't update my RAM ( although I 'm thinking about it ) , but I changed my hard drive to a Samsung SSD . The change is radical . The computer is not slow at all anymore . There are no more " freezing " , and it takes exactly 15 seconds to boot , instead of something like 1 minute or more . Any application opens almost instantly . It seems like I just bought my mac . If you want to speed up your mac ( or PC ) , you should definitely buy an SSD . I also did a clean install and copied whatever I needed from a backup . As I said , I 'm thinking of adding some RAM . I currently have 4GB but I want to buy 8GB or 16GB . I 'll let you know then , if it works or not . Please upvote this answer so that everyone can see it !
iMore provides a <URL> to restore an old backup onto a new watch that I have summarized below . The first step is to unpair the old watch from your phone . As part of that , a backup of your watch 's information and settings will be created on the phone . Next , pair your new watch following the normal procedures - launch the Apple Watch app , tap Start Pairing , and align the watch in the viewfinder . On the following screen it will state " Your Apple Watch Is Paired . " From here , tap on Restore from Backup , and you should be given the option of the backup you made when unpairing the old watch . Tap on that . You will then need to agree with the terms and conditions , as well as enter your Apple ID username and password . Tap through the remaining screens of setting options , including a passcode , and finally it will begin the process of restoring your backup , which may take several minutes . Once the restore is complete , you will have your new watch set up with all your settings and data .
Apple has a program called <URL> and detects if the cable has a certified chip inside . The chip just says that it 's been officially ' Made For iOS . '
No there is no way to accomplish this . From Apple - <URL> You close the Exercise ring when you reach the globally recommended 30 minutes of exercise per day . And you do n't even have to do it all at once , which means you 're more likely to fit it into your day . From all searches I have performed I have not found any possible way to change it and the above quote suggests that 30 minutes is the amount Apple has fixed on ( the call it " recommended " ) .
I 've never tried any of the Mac Server products . But AnandTech has a pretty good <URL> . A few of the conclusions : ... server administrators will be happy to know that , in spite of its deeply cut price and consumer-friendly distribution method , Lion Sever stacks up favorably against Snow Leopard Server . and OS X Server is most useful in a handful of different scenarios : the first is that you have a small network that 's in need of a full-featured but easy-to-manage and simple-to-license server product . The second is that you 're managing a network of any size that used to be all-Windows , but hosts a growing number of Macs ( this is often the case in education , for example ) - OS X Server knows that it 's going to be finding its way into a lot of Windows houses , and as such it integrates fairly well with existing Active Directory setups . The last is that you have a bunch of iOS devices flooding your network and you have no idea what to do with them - iOS management may be Lion Server 's ace in the hole . ( emphasis mine ) Seems to fit your intended usage pretty well . About your other question : Besides , and this is a bonus question , do you have some experience in using Lion server to manage centralized Xcode development ? ( we currently use our own MacBooks and we keep in sync using Git , I 'd like to know for different approaches based on OSX Server ) . Keep using git , use the OSX server as central repository ( maybe consider buying <URL> or using an free/open source alternative for managing your git interaction ) . Install a CI-tool ( <URL> or similar ) on the server and use it to create automated builds . Should work quite nicely .
Shutdown vs. Sleep is a constant question . It used to be that shutting down the early OS X machines caused issues with timed log cleanup routines . That 's pretty much a non-issue these days as the OS recognizes when the routines have n't run and will reschedule them . Another concern has been restarting to free up memory or just make the machine more stable . This has been overcome to a degree by the sandboxing of apps so that they do n't intrude on each other 's memory footprint , etc. . The other big consideration is cost . Apple does a good job of making sleep efficient , but it is still uses 4x-5x more power than shutdown ( also known as idle ) . This is dependent on your Mac ( iMac = 4x and Mac Mini = 5x ) . You can read more about this on <URL> and select the report for your Mac . Also , shutting down a Mac still causes some power drain and is referred to as " idle " by Apple . Consider that it always needs power because you can set your Mac to automatically shutdown at a certain time and startup at a certain time ( System Preferences > Energy Saver > Schedule ) . For me , I set automated sleep and wake times and almost never reboot .
Apple Pay is separate to Family Sharing . Each person maintains their own Apple Pay cards and being part of Family Sharing has no effect on this . It 's just like not being part of Family Sharing .
The mute-setting does not transfer from the phone to the watch .
The temperature shown does come from the Weather App . Small bits of data on the watch face are known as complications . Tapping the temperature on the watch face will open the Weather app thus revealing the source of the data . The watch gets the data from your iPhone which , in turn , uses location and data from the Internet . You may find more useful information in the <URL> .
For watchOS3 : Press and hold the Side Button Press and hold the Digital Crown For watchOS2 : When the app that you would like to terminate is open : Press and hold the Side Button and wait until the shut down screen appear . Then let go of the side button . Press and hold the Side button again until the home screen appears . Your formerly active app has now been terminated . PS : The Side Button is the button below the Digital Crown .
Short answer No The background that tables , graphs , images etc. rest above is just a workspace . It 's not a canvas . ( Just to be complete I did try it with my Pencil in my iPad Pro )
I looked for some generic commands that display/manipulate kernel extensions . got my attention and based on its output , the 4th column is The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies . If this is zero , the kext is a built-in part of the kernel that has a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts . The only problem was that its size was in hexadecimal . So I converted the hexadecimal to decimal and printed only relevant information ( like kext bundle id ) . Breaking it down : - print a list of loaded non-built-in kexts - pipe the output to , convert the 4th " size " column from hexadecimal to decimal , print that and the kext bundle id . - pipe the output to command and sort the list using numerical comparison ( so that " 10 " is not less than " 1 " ) . You can pipe the output to to get top 3 memory hoggers . Here are mine : Update : you can also pipe this to to see which non-apple kexts are loaded .
Yes . Purchased . m4a files contain the purchaser 's name &amp; email address used in the related Apple ID . A quick way round it is to just re-encode them as AAC . With iTunes in Music view , My music right click the column header &amp; make sure ' Kind ' is showing . click that column to sort by Kind scroll to find ' Protected AAC ' songs . right-click/Get Info [ or ⌘ Cmd i ] then see the File tab [ iTunes 12 ] or the Summary tab [ iTunes 11 or earlier ] This will show the purchaser info . To remove ... Preferences > General > Import Settings ... Make sure it 's set to AAC Encoder ( &amp; iTunes Plus for better quality ) Then for each protected song ... right click or File Menu - Create AAC Version . Then delete the old protected versions . You 'll have to do that alphabetically , as in your current sort view , they wo n't show in the same place in the list . Examples of tagging before &amp; after re-encoding as AAC ... Incidentally , it was proved empirically back in 2007 that the audio itself contains no watermark . <URL> Before - from iTunes Store I 've blurred anything that could possibly be identifying After ...
No , indeed . Photos that you share are not shared [ sic ] , but are copied and then shared , despite clear indications in the user interface that would lead to the conclusion that they are . Furthermore , as a consequence , albums are not shared at all : instead the individual photos in the album at the time it is shared are copied . Moreover , if you add photos to an album , and wish to add them to the shared " version " of that album , you must make sure to " share " only the added photos , as any photos that you " share again " will have new copies made for them in the shared album .
On <URL> , it 's stated at the bottom of the page that Apple Watch : Requires iPhone 5 or later . This means no iPod touch .
Macworld run <URL> with a collection of accessories : In our testing , even many form-fitting iPad 2 accessories work with the third-generation iPad . For example , most dock-cradle accessories -- such as speaker docks , chargers , and even Apple 's iPad Keyboard Dock -- released prior to the new iPad work fine . ( This is likely because many of these accessories were designed to fit both the iPad 2 and the original iPad , and the original iPad is even thicker than the new model . ) Similarly , most iPad stands and mounts -- especially those that hold the iPad loosely in a groove , slot , or cradle , or on easel-style supports -- work perfectly with the iPad . Even Twelve South 's HoverBar , which uses a rigid-plastic , corner-hugging cradle , fits the new iPad , albeit with a tighter fit than when mounting an iPad 2 . Even better , Apple 's site now states that the <URL> dock lists compatibility with the iPad 1st generation and the <URL> dock with the iPad 2 2nd generation and iPad 3rd generation .
end question
start question
Purchasing rMBP now - will come loaded with Mountain Lion ?
Order now . You 'll get Mountain Lion free no matter what , and it 's a pretty painless process to install , particularly on a clean computer . It 's probably a toss-up whether you 'll get Moutain Lion or not . It seems likely that it will be released before the end of the month , but when that image gets pushed to machines is anyone 's guess . And even if you do end up with Lion , that may be a blessing in that you can wait out any 1.0 bugs if they pop up . Ordering now gets you in the queue , and there 's virtually no downside to not having a copy pre-installed .
Do n't worry , the filesystem is really the same as in Lion . What you may have misunderstood is how the new iCloud integration works . Every app that supports it ( it may even be built-in if you use the system-standard open/save components , I 'm unsure ) will display an iCloud tab in the Open/Save dialogs , but this is in addition to the standard Finder hierarchy that 's been around forever . This new iCloud storage does n't allow nested folders , so you only get one level of hierarchy . The idea is to keep things simple à la iOS ( it looks like and is conceptually the same as organizing apps on iOS ) . For more detail and description , check out the <URL> section of <URL> 's Mountain Lion review at Ars Technica .
This would make scrolling up ( or dragging up with two fingers ) over an icon show app Exposé :
The FTP server in Mountain Lion is still there , just not part of the GUI . You can re-enable it using the following in Terminal : To disable , do instead of . * The FTP root directory is your Users home folder .
According to the <URL> page you can update from Snow Leopard ( 10.6.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) , or Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) later to Mavericks ( 10.9 ) if your hardware meets the requirements , which yours does . I upgraded my 2012 MacBook Air to Mavericks about two weeks ago and the battery life is noticeably better .
Another way to address your question : If this is the Mac you 're using to make your living , then DEFINITELY run do n't walk and get a touch input now . Recommend Magic Trackpad if it 's a desktop , but not a strong opinion there . If you 're in college , just in your first job , or in a financial situation where someone bought your Mac for you and the $ 60-70 for a touch input is pricey - I definitely think you can get by without one without feeling like a 2nd class citizen . Same answer if you 're planning to upgrade soon to another Mac that 'll come with one and do n't want to pay for one twice . Otherwise , if you 're using this Mac several times ( or several hours ) a day , I 'd say get a touch-based input sooner than later . If you 're only using it occasionally and you 're asking because spending another $ 70 ( on a computer you thought important enough to invest $ 1000 + in , mind you ) , then I 'd wait until you can try it out on someone else 's computer . Finally , if you are considering getting one and $ 20-30 will make a substantial difference in your decision calculus ... keep an eye on discount sites , including Apple clearance online . Every few months they typically offer discounted refurb devices that are easily as good as buying new .
Yes it is . I use it for my firewall needs . A great way to test if it still exists , is to just run it . Open Terminal.app and enter the following command : It should report the following ( rules may vary ) : Additionally , Apple will not remove it as it is actually the backend for the default Application Firewall found in System Preferences , at least not for some time . You can read up more on ipfw in OS X using <URL> ( or simply type in Terminal.app ) . As for pf ( the actual implementation of OS X is ) , it is a much more object orientated program that can control network access translation and packet filter ( while requires external components to handle them ) . It is born from OpenBSD ( as opposed to FreeBSD ) and has been around for quite a while as well . It 's power comes from being able to accomplish more internally , but also optimize long rulesets ( that sometimes bogs down ) . They are both , however , excellent firewalls and can coexist quite happily . <URL> .
When a newer Mac migrates data from an older OS , the system has upgrade scripts to make sure that the data lands properly on the new system . These scripts handle all Apple software and perhaps a few high profile programs in case that Apple has found a need to clean up other data . Migration the other way is n't tested , no scripts or support is provided and in fact , the system normally detects you are moving data backwards and refuses to restore in the first place . You should be fine restoring a Lion backup onto any Mac with Mountain Lion . You do n't need to reinstall anything - just do n't run the Setup Assistant until you have the external drive and can move everything to the new mac . Running an older OS on a newer Mac is also problematic , since often drivers are missing and again , Lion will check and refuse to install on hardware that is too new in general .
You can disable it through Terminal with the following command : It can be re-enabled with : With OS X 10.10 Yosemite or 10.11 El Capitan , you can go to System Preferences → Mission Control and switch Dashboard to off .
As far as I can tell , Final Cut Studio 2 will run on Lion , but will not install on Lion . Apparently , the installer program requires Rosetta , but the software itself does not . So yes , it should work , if it never needs reinstallation , but if it does , you 're stuck . Proceed with caution . Sources : <URL> personal experimentation
Here 's all the details : <URL> I totally agree with their recommendation of Drive Genius and Disk Warrior . I use them daily and could not do my job without them .
You can still download the IPSW files that contain iOS from Apple - <URL> . Just find the correct 5.1.1 file for your model . The problem is installing that IPSW . The trick to make iTunes use a specific IPSW instead of downloading the latest from Apple is to hold option ( shift on Windows ) while clicking the Update or Restore buttons . There is a limit to how long Apple will allow installations of old versions ( without using jailbreak-related hacks ) , so you 'll want to try this ASAP .
Lion does not offer any customizations during the installation process . Thus a reinstallation is about as smooth and as linear as possible . You restart your Mac holding the OPTION key when you hear the tone . You will then be greeted with various partitions you can use instead of the main Lion partition . Should you wish to simply reinstall Lion , you would select the Recovery HD partition . Once loaded , you just need to follow the prompts and install it over your current Lion installation . The new installation will replace all the core system files , but leave your user profile and data complete untouched . Your music , documents , even passwords and bookmarks , and applications will not touched ; none of your personal information will be deleted ( nor will it backup your old system , as was common in older OS X versions ) . It is a seamless process that simply rolls Lion back to the default installation build . There will be nothing lost and no disk spaced wasted on old system files . <URL> . Note : It was the case that older builds of OS X allowed various types of reinstallations ( like Archive and Install or a complete erase ) , but these have been omitted in Lion , greatly simplifying the process .
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
Mountain Lion does n't ship with any GCC , but you can install GCC 4.7 . I have done this on my machine .
Apple computers have long been considered " virus free " although Apple stopped pushing this as a selling point earlier this year in the wake of several Apple targeted viruses . The truth is that a virus can be programmed for mac much like a software application can , the reason for the lack if infections on mac was merely the same as the reason for lack of some apps in the past , the relative unpopularity vs windows machines meant it was less practical to program for mac . With macs now being more popular than ever before , Apple now has to implement strict measures to hold on to their clean , virus free image , hence Gatekeeper being added to Mountain Lion .
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
I hope this helps someone in the future : The LIST of keychains , notably login.keychain , is stored in ~ / Library/Preferences/com . apple.security.plist The system.keychain and similar are found in / Library/Preferences/com . apple.security.plist If those files has wonky permissions , you 'll have problems doing anything . Keychain Access will keep forgetting about the whole chain , and anything you add or remove from it . This same problem may apply to the keychain itself ; if you ca n't save to it , you likely have wonky permissions . Note that it appears Disk Utility does not fix this , although I do n't know why . It seems you have to manually fix this .
No , the update will not be free ( though it is yet unclear what the price will be , possibilities ranging from $ 29 to $ 129 ) , and will only be free for those who purchase computers within 2 weeks of the update coming out ( this is usually the time window for the free upgrades that Apple offers ) in the summer . If you 've purchased your computer recently , sorry , but you 'll have to pay for it .
For Repairs/Recovery : One is to use the build in recovery installed on your hard drive . To check for it use disk utility , but it is a hidden partition so make it non hidden first . Second one is to use the Internet Recovery . For clean install : is to <URL> , with complete ML installer . ( you need to have / <URL> the ML installer package ) , and a USB with 8GB space . <URL> Example : <URL> The OS X Recovery Disk Assistant lets you create OS X Recovery on an external drive that has all of the same capabilities as the built-in OS X Recovery : reinstall Lion or later , repair the disk using Disk Utility , restore from a Time Machine backup , or browse the web with Safari . Note : In order to create an external OS X Recovery using the OS X Recovery Assistant , the Mac must have an existing Recovery HD . To create an external OS X Recovery , download the OS X Recovery Disk Assistant application . Insert an external drive , launch the OS X Recovery Disk Assistant , select the drive where you would like to install , and follow the on screen instructions .
end question
start question
How does " sharing " of purchased apps work on iPhone and iPad ?
There is n't a limit to this ( or there is n't yet a limit that is imposed by Apple ) ; you should be able to install iOS apps that you purchase on all your iOS devices ( obviously using the same Apple ID ) . From the <URL> : APP STORE PRODUCT USAGE RULES ( i ) If you are an individual acting in your personal capacity , you may download and sync an App Store Product for personal , noncommercial use on any iOS Device you own or control .
There is n't a limit to this ( or there is n't yet a limit that is imposed by Apple ) ; you should be able to install iOS apps that you purchase on all your iOS devices ( obviously using the same Apple ID ) . From the <URL> : APP STORE PRODUCT USAGE RULES ( i ) If you are an individual acting in your personal capacity , you may download and sync an App Store Product for personal , noncommercial use on any iOS Device you own or control .
As @bmike has suggested above , Apple has confirmed you 'll need an Apple TV to support remote access . From Apple 's newly posted support page : <URL> Control your accessories away from home If you have an Apple TV ( 3rd generation or later ) with software version 7.0 or later , you can control your HomeKit-enabled accessories when you 're away from home using your iOS device .
You ca n't generally password protect specific apps without some jailbreaking I assume , but you can restrict certain things , a few of which I recommend if you are giving it to a young one . <URL> Describes the restrictions process , and it lists You can choose to restrict access to the following applications and features on the device : Safari , YouTube , iTunes , Ping , App installation , App deletion , Camera , FaceTime , Location , Account changes , Multiplayer games in Game Center , Adding friends in Game Center . In addition , you can choose to prevent access to specific content types : In-app purchases , Music and podcasts , Movies , TV shows , Apps . You can also set iTunes restrictions for content via <URL> , but again , this is n't device specific at the time , it is when you are buying or downloading content from the internet .
There is a maximum of 11 pages of apps on your iPad . Those that do n't show up can be launched by swiping all the way left to the iPad spotlight , and searching for the app title . As for maximum number of apps in a folder , I was able to fit 20 ( as you mentioned ) . I was not able to find any official documentation regarding this matter .
With , upgrading all of your installed applications ( that installed with cask ) is done with a single command : This is an unofficial ( community based ) way to upgrade applications and only has free softwares on its repository ( there is no way to purchase ) . Advantages of this mechanism are : It 's scriptable It separates system applications from user applications ( your installed applications are placed in instead of ) so it 's per user . Installation of packaged installers is in the background so it does n't need user interactions . Uninstallation of applications is programmed by its community so there is no worry about remaining files after uninstallation . It 's possible to have multiple versions of applications systematically because the mechanism uses symbolic links for the latest or selected version of applications . The source of applications is kept in the cache so you can install and uninstall them without additional downloads . Disadvantages of this mechanism are : There is no differential upgrade . It downloads the whole application image ( . dmg ) or package ( . pkg ) and stores in the cache . Installation of applications is relied on symbolic links that may be not ideal ( There are two copies of an application and may be repeated in " Open with " list ) There is also official App Store mechanism ( the default ) for upgrading applications that are installed with itself and it supports differential upgrade and can upgrade all of it 's installed application with a single click ; but unlike Cask it 's not scriptable to run upgrade , installation , etc and does not keep the sources . Another mechanism is in-app upgrade check that occurs when application starts . It is different from App Store upgrade and also supports differential upgrade . I think it 's up to you to choose which mechanism to use for which kind of applications , this comparison may help you . I use the Cask for applications that is not provided in the App Store ( like VLC , OS X FUSE , OwnCloud , Weka , etc. ) and App Store for non-free applications i purchased . In-app upgrades are not suitable for me because it does not keep the source of downloaded data .
The device ca n't be removed from Find my iPhone by resetting it . Furthermore , you can and probably should set the device to lost mode if you want to put a PIN on it and lock the device with a helpful message to contact you for the eventual return of the device . If you really just want the device wiped , then you can erase it , knowing that still it will <URL> : With iOS 7 , Find My iPhone can continue to display your custom message , even after your device has been erased . When you press the Reset button in Settings , it asks for your Apple ID , and will only reset the device when it 's been entered . Attempting to turn off Find my iPhone through iCloud settings will prompt for your Apple ID . If the device is factory reset when powered off through iTunes , it will still require activation using your Apple ID . Putting the device in lost mode is probably better since eventually the thief will decide to return it once they realize whomever they sell or give it to will keep getting reminded that the device was lost and should be returned to you .
Apple Music and iTunes Match are complementary : both will allow you to match ( and upload if unmatched ) your locally owned songs Apple Music allows you to stream those songs as well as a good deal ( but not the whole ) of the iTunes Store catalog without downloading them , or download the matched songs as 256kbps FairPlay-wrapped DRM-encrypted AAC as well as the unmatched ones in their original format . iTunes Match allows you to download ( and listen as it downloads , even if it is in a temporary cache , which makes it look like streaming ) matched songs as DRM-free 256kbps AAC ( still wrapped in an thin FairPlay container but inconsequential and unencrypted ) as well as the unmatched ones in their original format . So be very wary with Apple Music matched songs : be sure to back up your original files , or you 'll be left with only DRMized ones . You can see the type of match by adding some info columns in the song list view in iTunes .
There are several complicated and time-limited things that are causing apps like Tweetbot to very likely get all shut down by Twitter in the near future . My impression is the high price of <URL> not only reflects the high cost that the developers spent to make such a complicated and design intensive app , but also to discourage too many people from " trying " it out as well as a calculation that they need to make their investment back sooner rather than later due to the uncertainty of being dependent on Twitter 's API rule changes . Twitter is in the process of shutting down all third party apps that replicate what you see at <URL> in terms of showing you the timeline . <URL> In a nutshell - in the last 12 months , Twitter has been telling developers to not make apps like Tweetbot since they <URL> and the 100,000 user token limit is really making it impossible for a team of talented professionals to recoup their costs without charging for an app since you need way more than 100,000 users to make money on data or advertising . Twitter wants to make money , developers want to make money , so at the moment the development of great , free twitter apps is n't exactly a hotbed of innovation in 2012 like it was in the past . Many in the development community had assumed that Twitter would bend the rules when their app was n't ready , but with the Windows 8 release , they shut down the most popular client when it hit 100,000 user-tokens even though Twitter does n't even have a windows 8 client ( perhaps yet ) . When that happened , I imagine a lot of projects are being dropped or at least halted . Not only is Twitter putting hard limits on third party app growth , it also is getting more and more exacting in telling these devs <URL> ( with the implied threat that they will shut down those apps if they fail to comply to Twitter 's exact design standards which include serving all promotional content ) So , now that a brief back story is complete , here is your answer : The following OS X twitter clients have been viewed to broadly and/or fully support retina display Macs : <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> Both <URL> and <URL> have free downloads so you can try them both before buying . Check all of them as one is on sale now for half price and prices can change over time . All of the above render text with great precision and have all or many of the app 's graphics in retina . Of course the twitter stream has many non-retina people thumbnails , etc. . .
You can host your own calendar ( CalDAV ) and contact ( CardDAV ) server using Mac OS Server ' Leopard ' or Server ' Snow Leopard . ' These will sync over the Internet to iCal and Address Book on your Macs , and to your iOS devices . If you do n't want to get an expensive Mac Mini Server you could go with using an old retired notebook or even a virtual machine with a Linux installation . The open source project <URL> will provide you with both CalDAV and CardDAV services . I am personally using an installation of DAViCal too keep my Macs and iOS devices in sync using a older machine I have at home as the server . I would recommend this solution as you remain in control of your own data . Getting it up and running requires some work , but you would be able to congratulate yourself with the accomplishment . There are step-by-step tutorials for setting up both Linux and the DAViCAL software available .
looks like they just updated to version 2.8.1202 , release notes say " Quick Deposit for iPod touch - Now you can use your camera-enabled iPod touch to make a deposit . "
Flashlight for Spotlight works by injecting its own code into the Spotlight process . This is how it manages to " intercept " your interaction with Spotlight in order to enhance it . El Capitan comes with " System Integrity Protection " ( SIP ) enabled by default . Amongst other things , SIP protects system processes , such as the Spotlight process , from code injection from other processes . Another example is that you can can not attach a debugger to a system process when SIP is enabled . Therefore Flashlight for Spotlight can not , in a factory default install , inject its code into Spotlight - and thus it does n't work . You can relatively easy disable SIP by booting to Recovery Mode and running and rebooting . It can be enabled again by running in Receovery mode . again . If you disable SIP you can use Flashlight for Spotlight on El Capitan , but will miss out on the protection you get from having SIP enabled .
In a nutshell , iOS sets up a persistent connection to the Apple Push Notification ( APN ) servers if you elect to use iMessage , iCloud , Notifications or other push services . From there , the phone checks in with the servers anytime it has a network connection and listens for messages that the servers wish to push to your device . Furthermore , iOS then registers which applications on your phone should get specific messages . All the messages pass through the notification center system in case you have elected for them to be posted to specific places such as the lock screen , the notification tray or just passed off to the end application for each message as appropriate . That 's it . There 's a server . ( likely many behind a load balancer ) There 's a connection that your device opens to the server . Things can then arrive through the connection .
On your iPhone : Open the app Go to - > Under the section , wait till it shows the list of apps Click on the app you 're interested in to see the App Version , the App Size and the amount of data it has stored on the device . This works only for third party apps . The Apple provided stock apps will not show this information .
There is no keypress or gesture to do this unfortunately . But here is a quick way to achieve a similar thing . Create a new bookmark in safari ( of any web page ) Edit this bookmark ( press edit in bookmark screen ) Rename the bookmark to End In the address field cut and paste this text Once you save this bookmark , you will be able to hit the bookmark button , select End and it will take you to the bottom of the web page . I know it 's not as simple as the current scroll to top feature ( this solution requires two taps ) , but its really the only option at the moment .
The Trim Enabler patches the following Kext-File which checks if the ssd is a 3rd-party or Apple Branded SSD : you can also enable trim manually by looking for all ' Apple ' occurrences in the file and patching them in a hex-editor or via terminal :
Anything on your iPhone that Apple sells in its stores ( that is , any music , apps , movies , books , etc. you 've purchased and are still available ) will be backed up and wo n't count towards the 5GB total . That does n't include , obviously , app data , your photos and videos , SMS and the like ( from <URL> ) : What is backed up You get unlimited free storage for : Purchased music , movies , TV shows , apps , and books ( ... ) You get 5 GB of free iCloud storage for : Photos and videos in the Camera Roll Device settings ( for example : Phone Favorites , Wallpaper , and Mail , Contacts , Calendar accounts ) App data Home screen and app organization Messages ( iMessage , SMS , and MMS ) Ringtones Visual Voicemails There are some caveats to consider when using iCloud Backup , though : as already mentioned , purchases no longer available in the iTunes Store , App Store or iBookstore may not be restored backup of purchased music is not available in all countries backups of purchased movies and TV shows are U.S. only music , movies , and TV shows that you did not purchase from the iTunes Store are not included any podcasts , audio books or photos that you originally synced from your computer are excluded I warmly recommend that you read <URL> for more information on iTunes and iCloud backups and which may the right choice for you . If the size of your backup exceeds the 5 GB free storage limit , an alternative to purchasing additional storage is to restrict which app data will be backed up . You can do that in Settings > iCloud > Storage &amp; Backup > Manage Storage .
No . Each family member would have to use purchases in the cloud to download your entire music library . I know of several people that tried family sharing and I 've gone back to one Apple ID because of how well iTunes match works for them . Losing that feature to gain the rest was n't worth it in the short run . My gut feeling is that sharing between two adults it 's better to stick with one Apple ID and families with small children will prefer a family sharing in the 8.0 incarnation of the feature
AutoCorrect will automatically replace the word unless you cancel it manually by tapping it . ( Note the small sign in the suggestion bubble indicating that tapping it will cancel the suggestion . ) So , as soon as an AutoCorrect suggestion appears that you want to use , just hit Space ( or insert a punctuation mark ) and continue typing .
While the Dock does n't have the concept of " folders " for the apps that are pinned to or running in it , as of Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard the <URL> feature can provide something similar . Dragging the Applications folder from the Finder into the " Stacks section " ( right of the white-dashed line ) of the Dock will add it as a Stack . You can then click the folder to see something like this : If you want subsets of your Applications as separate Stacks , you can create folders for each somewhere in your filesystem , and add <URL> for the desired applications . ( Note that dragging an app from the Applications folder to another folder makes an alias by default . Convenient ! ) The results look like this : All this being said , an alternative if you have OS X 10.7 Lion is to use <URL> to organize and access your apps , keeping the contents of your Dock as minimal as possible .
end question
start question
How to specify " play next " in iTunes ?
You could use iTunes DJ . Select the playlist that you want from the list in the left-hand corner . Then , you can right click on a song , and select " Play next in iTunes DJ "
iTunes uses the same technologies as QuickTime for playback . According to <URL> circa 2005 , QuickTime is capable of playing 24-bit , 192kHz audio files . I think it 's safe to say that iTunes is fully capable of playing these files . However , you 're probably limited by the hardware in your Mac . If you open the " Audio MIDI Setup " app , you 'll probably find that your Mac is limited to audio output at 96kHz . So , if you want to listen to these files in full 192kHz , you 'll need to use a dedicated external USB DAC , and bypass your Mac 's internal audio hardware . Please correct me if I 'm wrong . Further reading : <URL>
The cones in almost any speaker will break down over time . Various environmental factors will determine how long a speaker lasts , but overdriving the element can definitely have an adverse effect . It 's impossible to provide any precise data but in short , you 're probably shortening the life of the speakers ( by an indeterminate amount of time ) by running them at maximum volume but , provided you 're not hearing any distortion from the speakers , you 're not damaging them by doing so .
One way to do this is through the context menu on the selected song . Ctrl + Click ( right click ) , go to the " Show in Playlist " item , and select the " Music " option . You should then be taken to the song in the main library list .
Executive summary : I do n't believe this is possible , at least not for volumes formatted as HFS + . My current understanding is that HFS + chooses its file system block size ( separate from the physical device block size ) according to a fixed <URL> that can not be manually overruled . Discussions in other forums spanning from 2002 to 2011 ( <URL> , <URL> among others ) suggest using <URL> , which has a option , to manually set the block size when creating a new file system . I tried using on various kinds of partitions , on both . dmg diskimages and on physical SATA hard drives ( through SATA < - > USB interface ) and with various file systems ( HFS + , FAT16 , FAT32 . ) When I ran with different - b sizes ( 512 , 1024 , 2048 , 4096 , 8192 , ) indeed it reported success in creating the filesystems with the specified block sizes . I could mount &amp; read/write these volumes normally . But when I examine the test volumes with ( where is disk1 , disk4 , or whatever your disk is ) , I always see : Noting that the end of the man page includes this tidbit : It would appear that OS X 10.8 ( and probably 10.7 , and perhaps earlier versions ) overrides whatever block size claims to create , in favor of default sizes imposed by a higher authority . ( ?? ) One article I came across suggested using OS X 's software-RAID utility to create a RAID mirror . Software RAID allows one to specify a RAID stripe size , but as this is generally geared towards improving throughput for large files rather than tiny ones , I believe the minimum RAID stripe size is 4KB - not useful for your purposes .
iTunes starts playing what is currently selected . For me for instance the playlist selected was " Most recently added " , so when I hit the play button on the keyboard , the first song from this list starts to play . The only way I know of to solve your problem is to enable random play in iTunes . This is easily done by clicking the snaked arrow button next to the cover image in the top view . If it 's highlighted blue , random play is on . Quitting iTunes and hitting the play button again will play a random song from the library . Drawback : Whenever you changed that ( because you do n't want to have random play but want to listen to an album ) you have to remind yourself to enable it again before closing it . AFAIK there 's no preference setting for that .
How to see iTunes U courses without iTunes iTunes U courses are RSS feeds , so you will need : An RSS reader , either web browser-based , like <URL> ( * ) or <URL> , or standalone , like <URL> . Make sure that in either case it can display H. 264/MPEG -4 videos . ( * ) Google Reader will not be available <URL> . The feed URL , which for the iOS programming course <URL> is : <URL> For example , after subscribing with Google Reader you 'll see a list with links to the course videos : How to obtain the feed URL Neither Standford University nor <URL> publish the feed URL , so you will need iTunes to get it : Open iTunes and look for " Stanford coding together " Select the course and subscribe : Navigate to iTunes U , right click the course and select Copy iTunes U URL :
Unfortunately , updating the files in Finder will not update the files in iTunes . This is because iTunes uses a file called iTunes Library.itl as a database of all your media . You can however use the automator actions " Get Specified iTunes Items " and " Set Info of iTunes Songs " to automat the process of updating the metadata . There are some other good Automator actions in there too .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
Right-Click on the file in iTunes , then select " Show in Finder " There you have your Podcast-File . You can copy it on your USB-Drive or wherever you want !
The iPhone does not have any support for Quicktime VR files .
You can connect the iPad directly to your stereo using bluetooth . Or you can use AirPlay to stream audo to your iMac . However you can not record anything while doing this : While the " AirPlay - Bluetooth - HDMI " switch is on , an alert appears if you try to record an Audio Recorder or Guitar Amp Touch Instrument , or if you try to record a sound with the Sampler . You can turn the switch off from the alert . From : <URL>
Try the following steps : 1 : Start the video from YouTube whilst in Safari . 2 : Hit Home key once . You 'll exit Safari and playback will stop . 3 : Double-tap Home key to bring up the app-switcher . Slide to the right to bring up background audio controls . The icon on the right side will show whichever program you last used with background audio : Safari . 4 : Press Play . Youtube audio will resume playback .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
There 's no built-in functionality to download lyrics in iTunes , but there 's a slew of software designed for this purpose : Windows : <URL> <URL> <URL> OS X : <URL> <URL>
This is currently not possible . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
Right click the song in iTunes and choose Get Info . Second from the right is the section " Lyrics " where you can paste the lyrics of the song . The lyrics will show up on top of the album art when the song is played on the iPod . Tap the album art to show it if you do n't have all the controls visible .
There 's a lot of applications out there that will do this . The feature in iTunes was never that good anyway since it did n't really let you compare files to make sure you were n't deleting the wrong files ( like songs that appear in compilations , best-ofs , etc ) . Probably some free options out there , but <URL> is pretty good ( $ 13 ) . I 'm sure some Googling might yield more results
Apple Music require iTunes 12.2 , which is not included in Yosemite 10.10.4 so , soon , Apple should release another update exclusively for iTunes where there should be a button to play Apple Music . You can get that update from the iTunes menu - select Check for Updates ... If that update is n't rolled out or available , you can listen here : <URL>
You should take a look at <URL> . It can selectively toggle function keys between being regular function keys or the special hardware keys , including the media keys ( F7 , F8 , and F9 ) . Essentially , it does the same thing as " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " setting ( System Preferences > Keyboard ) , except only to individual function keys instead of all of them .
end question
start question
Why would you choose Alfred over Spotlight ?
One thing is speed . I believe Alfred is currently faster than Spotlight . And , this is specifically for Lion I believe , Alfred learns where Spotlight does n't . If I want to launch Adobe Photoshop and start to type ' Ph ' Alfred will offer Photoshop as an option and move it to the top with the more I select it . With Spotlight , Photo Booth with be the first choice , and it will not learn what I want with repeated use . I believe at one point it did , but lost the ability in Lion .
Nevermind , I managed to get it working following the advise of another <URL> on the Apple forums ; namely : Same thing happend to me on my 3gs , i went to Settings ... iCloud ... Delete Account then signed in again to add it . The iCloud inbox was displayed afterwards . This also fixed the problem of notes , which now show up properly on the notes application .
Indexing of an AFP-network drive is n't a problem : To enable spotlight indexing on a network drive open and enter : To disable the indexing of a connected network drive : To check the status of indexing on a connected network drive : <URL> In the comments there , a Synology NAS has been mentioned explicitly : MacHouis • a year ago Thanks a lot , it works very fine :) :) :) . I had to mount the volume ( a Synology Ethernet server ) in afp to start the Spotlight Indexing ... thanks thanks thanks ... This also works for older Mac OS Xs ( in the example below it 's Lion ) . Make sure that you 've switched to ' Shared ' in the search window :
Sorry , but it 's not possible to do this without jail breaking . The " Personal Hotspot " function on an iPhone only allows for sharing the 3G connection , not the wifi connection , so you ca n't use it as a wifi adapter . It 's feasible that Apple could add this functionality , but it 's a fairly niche case , so I would n't count on it . More immediately , if you have a laptop with wifi available , you could use Internet Sharing ( OS X ) / Internet Connection Sharing ( Windows ) and an ethernet cable to get connectivity to your desktop . Or if you 've got a Staples or something similar nearby , they usually have USB wifi adapters for $ 30 or less .
This is Alex from Reincubate , I work on the iPhone Backup Extractor . Setting up your iPhone from scratch will mean that you lose your personalized settings , while restoring from previous backup will revert the settings to the moment of the backup . If you have nothing against taking it all over again with your iPhone you should set as new , but if you are in a hurry and want to speed the process up restore from backup . Hope it helps .
Not particularly at any grave security risk since Apple is supporting and releasing security updates to OS X for n-3 generations of the OS as of August 2014 : Mavericks ( 10.9 ) Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) This is documented on the main support page at <URL> I have n't seen any time when n-2 were not supported on OS X so unless you depend on enhancements to Gatekeeper or the more <URL> such ad Application Layer VPN , Sandboxed Plug-ins , Additional sandboxed Apple Apps , OTA certificate revocation to make up your definition of risky to stay on 10.8 then you should be equivalently secured on 10.8 for the foreseeable near future .
I 'm not exactly sure what you mean by sticky notes , but I have been using the free " GoTasks " for quite some time . I 've found that it is by far the best integration into google tasks , and you can leave little notes with each separate task .
I do n't know of a general purpose Bluetooth only control that exists on the App store ( but that store is really hard to search these days for a needle in the haystack of apps ) , but one of the more common remote control software packages does say it will work without WiFi on the Mac . <URL> Once you 've installed the free Mac software and tested that you are OK tethering the Mac to the phone ( which can use prodigious amounts of cellular data ) you can download the free and ad supported iOS app . <URL> There is IAP to remove the ads if you really like it over time . I prefer to use the computer 's create network and tether over USB if needed for control in situations where I do n't have a pre-existing WiFi network . The apps I prefer for that are : <URL> - <URL> Rowmote Pro by Evan Schoenberg - <URL> Touchpad is truly standalone , just turn on screen sharing on your Mac and run the app . Rowmote Pro is more integrated with various apps such as spottily , hulu , etc. . . Both function fabulously as a keyboard and mouse/trackpad for OS X from iOS and I find I use both for different tasks at different times .
I ended up buying the unlock service even though I did n't have the original sim card . Fortunately the unlock service was n't able to unlock the iPhone 5S so they refunded me my money . I ended up going to the mobile operator and explaining my case , and even though I was on contract and had recently bought the phone , they agreed to unlock it . I might 've been lucky or it might 've been some new law against locking the new iPhones , however the person in the other country was able to activate the iPhone after the unlocking without the original sim card . The carrier the iPhone was locked to was Telenor and was based in Sweden .
No . Apple actually disclaims that a brand new Mac will work reliably . Only that they will repair it , replace it , or refund your purchase if you seek warranty service under the conditions of the one year warranty : APPLE DISCLAIMS ALL STATUTORY AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES , INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION , WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND WARRANTIES AGAINST HIDDEN OR LATENT DEFECTS Above from the US hardware warranty page at <URL> for a Mac Pro Furthermore , Apple has a long standing policy of cutting off the vast majority of repair service for Macs 5 years from the date when they remove it from sale . <URL> - Vintage and obsolete products There are some exceptions where you can get support between years 5 and 7 , but after 7 years , Apple and Apple Authorized Service Centers often flat out deny repair requests due to lack of support or part availability . I can not find any G5 or PPC machine that is n't officially designated by Apple as obsolete in 2015 . So - in summary , a new Mac Pro is n't sold with the expectation that it will even work for one year and the expectation that it might need repairs . Certainly second hand older machines wo n't be vouched for by Apple to have a working life of 10 years from now . That does n't mean some G5 will run for decades to come , just that the one you buy might or might not be the exception to things wearing out eventually .
I suggest you download a utility that shows the size and arrangement of your files . Personally , I use DaisyDisk . It is shareware , so for your purposes , it would suffice to trial the software . Mail attachments are stored in It is unlikely that OS X is keeping packages after installation through Software Update . You should first look to your cache and perhaps your sleepimage , which is located under ( note that the sleepimage is recreated every time the system goes to sleep . Read more about disabling it <URL> if you are concerned with HD space ) . DaisyDisk ( or equivalent ) will do a much better job at identifying where the " growth " has occured on your filesystem so that you may excise it than we ever could . I suggest you give it a try .
The second part of that statement " or all flash storage " is universally true . Solid state storage that ships with the current ( 2015 ) lineup of hardware is almost an order of magnitude faster than HDD technology . If you can make a justification that the increased performance is worth the uncharge then a pure SSD storage chain is a first choice/no brainer solution . As for the 1 TB vs 2 TB fusion drive - there could be two items in play : If the SSD component of the Fusion Drive is manufactured as faster than the 1 TB version , that would be a clear win . The page lists the 1 TB flash component as 24 GB of fast flash . The 2 TB drive contains 128GB of fast flash which is 5 times the space for fast file storage . Just common sense . Internal iMac storage is not user serviceable so if you know you are a power user and need 32 GB of RAM , you likely wo n't mind the incremental cost of SSD or larger fusion drive and would statistically be someone that would want more storage in a year according to Apple 's marketing research and experience . I would n't think the sleep image usage would matter on 10.10 or 10.11 for several reasons : The image is not purely based on the size of total RAM . The OS thins the sleep image through memory compression and other virtual memory enhancements . Writing a sleep image file is a large sequential write , which is the one benchmark where a traditional HDD performs quite well as compared to SSD since the drive cache and firmware to write a large chunk of contiguous storage to a spinning drive is quite optimized . SSD really shines for random small IO where the HDD seek times and latency causes large slowdowns .
asin ( x ) , acos ( x ) , and atan ( x ) work for me . Spotlight gives the results in radians and will not show any calculator results if you go out of the domains for these functions . Edit : If you want the results in degrees instead of radians , use asind ( x ) , acosd ( x ) , and atand ( x ) .
It 's probably not too much of a problem . If the system gets too hot , OS X will know to throttle down or shut down . If you 're worried or this happens too much ( or the system declares it 's too hot ) , take your laptop into an Apple Store or Apple Authorized reseller and have them check it out to make sure nothing 's wrong .
For Spotlight there is n't really a difference between AquaTerm , Terminal and iTerm when searching for " term " . All three names match the search term , there is no such notion as better Spotlight " learns " your preferences over time . So if you keep searching for " term " and then always select " Terminal.app " as result it will reorder the result list over time
Spotlight shines over more traditional file search utilities because it collects and searches the metadata on files all over your computer . A Spotlight search can look into your email messages from Mail ( or other clients if they support Spotlight ) while also looking into the contents of a PDF you downloaded and the file names in your Documents folder at the same time . Another example is that you could search on your computer for any image that was taken in a certain location ( if you have photos with GPS EXIF data ) or say taken with a certain camera . Turning off Spotlight can be done with some GUI tools ( eg . <URL> or <URL> ) or directly from the command line using the command ( eg . to turn off Spotlight for your startup drive ) .
A lot of PDF viewers on the iPad allow rotation of PDF files . An example would be <URL> which is a good app to have anyway if you need offline access to PDFs etc. . To open a PDF in GoodReader e.g. from Mail use the " Open with ... " button .
<URL> One of the fastest ways to hide a file or folder , from Spotlight , on the fly is to add the . noindex extension to the end of the filename or folder . The simplest way to get those files hidden is to create a folder , preferably named something innocuous , and add the extension to the end of the name . I 'll end up with a folder named " Nothing to See Here.noindex " or something similar . Hide just a single file Select the file to be hidden . Right-click and select Get Info , or click Command + I. Find the Name &amp; Extension field , and replace the current extension with . noindex . When prompted to confirm that I want to change the extension , I agree . Now my file is properly hidden from Spotlight search . Finlay : Finder wo n't know what to do with my file anymore , though . Look to the drop-down labeled Open With , and select an application to handle the file . Be careful of setting a single application to handle all . noindex files , as many different file types may be hidden from Spotlight , and OS X sometimes creates . noindex files itself
It ca n't hurt to repair permissions on your actual disk , but it is quite unnecessary , because " Macintosh HD " contains the actual operating system , so the stuff that you want to repair .
Create a file named inside a folder . Rename folders or files so that they end with . If you only want to hide files from the GUI , move them to a system folder like . Move the files to a folder that starts with a period like . It does n't remove them from mdfind queries like though . Related questions : <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Can I Reinstall iBooks ?
Copy the file from another system or a trusted person 's machine If you have a second machine with a comparable build of OS X installed on it , you can copy the file from it . Feel free to ask for the checksum of a file in chat to compare it to if you wish to make sure that the file is correct ( not modified accidentally/purposefully ) . Pacifist with OS X install media If you 've got an OS X install media and <URL> , you can browse the install media and grab the file . If you have Pacifist but no install media , it will prompt you to download the installer .
You can install it using <URL> . Just type the following : If you do n't have homebrew installed , you can simply do it by typing :
Continuous scrolling is available for iBooks on iOS but not the Mac . The Mac version of iBooks only allows pagination .
Well you can use any digital audio editor to combine songs . Like <URL> . Audacity is a free open source digital audio editor and recording computer software application , available for Windows , Mac OS X , Linux and other operating systems . Here is link that tells step by step how can you do that using Audacity . <URL>
This functionality will be support beginning with iOS 9.3 . It will support syncing the entire library , including PDFs on any device . Here is the Apple Support page with documentation : <URL> Federico Viticci <URL> this on Twitter first .
Just move them is probably the best solution . The user caches and preference files stick with the user home folder , so other than convention - most cases it does n't really matter which volume contains an application . You 'll need or file permission tweaking to actually delete some of the apps , but I 've found no downsides to moving any apps to an external drive . Spotlight still indexes them , updates to the App Store work as long as the drive stays mounted when you want to see that an update is available . Tools like LaunchBar and others will probably need hand-holding to find your moved applications - especially if you do n't place them in / Applications on the destination volume . You will need to re-introduce the moved copies of the App to <URL> , but in some brief testing , the following apps worked flawlessly when moved to the root of an external drive . Mail iWork 09/Keynote Utilities/Terminal
Enable the Automator Log Automator 's Log panel should display more detailed error information . You can show it by clicking the Log item in the View menu ( or pressing ⌥ ⌘ L ) .
Yes . In the Messages menu , there 's an option to uninstall the beta . Apple just messes with the App bundle to add support for the iMessage protocol . The underlying app is pretty much the same . See <URL> and <URL> which it references for more information .
This totally will not work . iTunes explicitly says gift certificate balances can not be used to purchase other gift certificates . I will call apple tomorrow to find another work around .
Aha , in <URL> if you select Export as mp4 , there is a crop checkbox and some textfields where you can type in the number of pixels to be cropped .
Using the Botany sample , the text boxes seem to work as expected with the caveat that you have to intentionally click on one of the four corner handles of the text box to make the blue linking triangles appear . I took a <URL> showing the controls reacting to mouse events . From there , linking works as expected from the perspective of Pages .
Custom text entry key bindings OS X has a very nice text editing system , which you can extend using Key Bindings . You can , for instance : Set up special characters to be entered when you press a certain key command . Insert more than one character at once . Include navigation commands and change the selection . Use <URL> -- <URL> is how I type the ⌃ ⌥ ⇧ ⌘ characters . To set this up , you just create the file and put your customizations there . <URL> describes the steps in detail . <URL> of the default key bindings , and here 's Apple 's <URL> to the text system and key bindings . Diacritics If you 're just looking to be able to type more diacritics , and you use a U.S. keyboard , consider using the U.S. Extended keyboard layout : This allows you to type such characters as oòôȯóöơōṯțőo̊ɵỏọţǒŏõǫȏṵṷȍ . You can enable it from the Input Sources section of the Language &amp; Text system preferences . " Press and hold " In Lion , you can type many special characters by holding down a similar key on your keyboard : ( It <URL> this can be customized , if you 're up to the task ! All it takes is to edit a file . ) Arbitrary text substitutions If you have specific phrases or characters you 'd like to use , you can also set up custom substitutions for them in the Text section of Language &amp; Text preferences : Character palette I guess you already know this , but I 'll include it for completeness . If you enable " Keyboard &amp; Character Viewer " in the Input Sources section of the Language &amp; Text prefs , you can open the Character Viewer and browse through the entire Unicode character set ( and you can also browse characters by category ) : This window is easily accessible in most applications with ⌃ + ⌘ + space ( in older versions of OS X , the shortcut was ⌥ + ⌘ + T ) .
Short Answer : There is simply no way to do this as of iOS 6 and iBooks 3.x . Long Answer : Apple is amazingly quiet about bookmarks in iBooks - other then mentioning that it is possible . If you <URL> , click " iBook Features " , then " Can I bookmark and save my page ? " , you will notice that they mention it is possible to bookmark pages , but do n't even mention how to view the bookmarks - let alone an alternate way to sort them . About the only other iBook information page I could find was <URL> with no information that was pertinent to you . On the other hand , the <URL> seems to prefer ordering bookmarks by page number instead of date . It might be painstaking , and I 'm not even sure it would transfer you bookmarks over ( in which case it would be worthless ) , but I do know it is possible to email books and PDFs to Kindle for reading ( see " Read Personal Documents : " in the above link ) . It may be possible to sync the books to your computer , and then email them over . Honestly , what you 're asking for <URL> , so it may be a very long time - if ever - before Apple releases such a feature . I also tried searching for a variety of general terms to see if it would pull up a list of bookmarks - in page order , but even that failed .
Recursively copy the contents of from your old mac to a destination folder your new mac . Then open iBooks on your new mac . Click File - > Add to Library , navigate to the destination folder you chose , and select all the files ( books ) you wish to import .
The iBooks app on iOS as well as OS X Mavericks uses the account you use to sign into the iBooks Store for syncing bookmarks , notes , collections , highlights and purchased books . So if you share an Apple ID/iTunes Store Account for purchases from the iBooks Store , then the sync will affect all the users who share the account . The iBooks sync is not based on one 's individual iCloud account , which is used for iMessage , FaceTime , Mail , Calendar , etc. . See <URL> for more information .
Mac OS X does n't have ( nor had in the past ) Serial Number or " Legit Purchase " mechanism . You can buy/borrow/lend / steal/copy a copy of Snow Leopard ( or any other edition ) and install it on any number of Machines . Technically this is possible , however , according to the EULA and all the legal stuff , you ca n't ; in any case , the operating system does n't have any copy-protection mechanism . EDIT : Bear in mind that a plain OS X Snow Leopard disk is not the same as a recovery disk . Although a recovery disk contains the OS , it is usually tied to a particular model , so if you try to recover a Macbook Pro with the iMac recovery disk , that might not work . ( This has happened to me in the past trying to recover the other way around , a friend 's iMac 's HDD failed and he replaced it but could n't find his recovery disk . We tried to use my Macbook Pro 's disk but it would n't work . The same with my Mac Pro . Going to an Apple Store will possibly help in that case . In the end I found my Snow Leopard 's original disk and we used that to install his iMac .
iBooks Author only opens iBooks Author projects ( . ibooks ) . You need to create a new iBooks Author file and import the ePub into it . Go to New & rarr ; New from ePub file ... .
You can make a custom workflow to do this as a <URL> . Look for the Change Type of Images action under Photos and then you just need to decide on your workflow - whether you save this as a service that can be activated by the contextual menu or perhaps make it into a drop folder so you can automate the next step of the process as well .
When you try to run the OS X installer it will refuse to install to a disk encrypted with FV2 and Disk Utility will refuse to partition or erase FV2 volumes . That being said , if you know your cli-fu you can destroy the partitions using the Terminal app included on the installer ( which I 've done , although now I do n't remember if I used or just brute forced it by overwriting the partition table with , point being that it can be done ) .
You can save the whole iTunes folder ( it should be at . . / Music/iTunes directory ) and just put it back after you reinstall iTunes on your new Windows system ( new iTunes installation will put it 's new " blank " folder in / Music , just replace with your backup copy ) . By doing so iDevices will recognise your library as the one they had synced with before and will continue to sync with it like nothing happened , hence keeping all the saves on the devices .
end question
start question
Can You Stop the Migration Assistant Midway Through ?
Pressing on both machines will exit the migration assistant . I have a feeling that it copies all files to temporary location before installing them/creating user accounts . So you should be fine . Depending on how far in you might have problems .
It worked fine . In fact I updated to 10.10 successfully in safe boot .
Administratively , it might be easiest to use the gift feature to purchase all the 10 apps at once and file your expense reports . You are then free to use that account to redeem one copy - or pass off one ( or more ) of the redemption codes to whatever deploy accounts you use . Currently , the iOS app store has more volume purchase options : <URL> <URL> I would join one of these if you can and inquire if/when it would extend to the Mac App Store for OS X. ( Nothing speaks louder than action ) . In the mean time , you can use gifting to separate the payment from the redemption and hand out the redemption codes as needed to the actual accounts you use to deploy the apps . I have n't had any issues with one account on 15 macs to ease the administrative burden . Do make sure to buy enough copies before adding new macs to keep things within the terms of the license . My reading ( and I 'm not a lawyer ) is a person can install their apps on macs they control and own with no limit ( not 5 or 10 ) and businesses/organizations are to buy one license per machine . I do n't see a technical or moral reason to actually redeem each copy ( especially if you secure / never further distribute those redemption codes ) . I personally ca n't wait until a unified volume plan arrives for the Mac App store - discount or not , having it centrally managed and downloading a spreadsheet to track things is so useful as we 're more constrained with time and expertise than the cost of the software at present .
You can prevent Siri from cutting you off in the command mode by holding down the Home button until you 're done speaking . Normally you activate Siri in the command mode by holding the Home button until Siri responds , then releasing the button and talking . In that mode she 'll cut you off pretty quickly . Continuing to hold the Home button bypasses that limitation .
Yes - capillary action is strongest in small gaps like the one surrounding the glass trackpad and the unibody frame . That liquid would likely seep and pool on top of the battery .
Yes , It is possible to download the Bootcamp drivers outside of the Bootcamp tool : UPDATE : Apple have published a table of ' which download you need for which model ' at <URL> For WinXP , see robmathers ' answer . The hard way , taken from <URL> is , I think , no longer needed . Download from Apple the <URL> file . Do n't double-click it . Open the index-lion-snowleopard-leopard . merged-1 . sucatalog file in a text editor or word processor . Search for each occurrence -- as at August 2012 there were 6 -- of BootCampESD.pkg . For instance , the one I needed is <URL> Notice in each such URL , the / 041-2011 / or similar / 041-XXXXX / bit of it . Below each such occurrence , notice the URL for a file with the same 041-XXXXX in it and ending in English.dist , e.g. 041-2011 . English.dist Paste the URL for each such English.dist file into your browser and open that url . Here 's a list of them : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Search for the Model Identifier for your Mac . For instance MacBookPro5 ,2 or Macmini4 ,1 . For instance the 041-2011 file contains these models : MacBook2 ,1 MacBook3 ,1 MacBook4 ,1 MacBook5 ,1 MacBook5 ,2 MacBook5 ,3 MacBook6 ,1 MacBook7 ,1 MacBookAir1 ,1 MacBookAir2 ,1 MacBookAir3 ,1 MacBookAir3 ,2 MacBookPro2 ,1 MacBookPro2 ,2 MacBookPro3 ,1 MacBookPro4 ,1 MacBookPro5 ,1 MacBookPro5 ,2 MacBookPro5 ,3 MacBookPro5 ,4 MacBookPro5 ,5 MacBookPro6 ,1 MacBookPro6 ,2 MacBookPro7 ,1 MacBookPro8 ,1 MacBookPro8 ,2 MacBookPro8 ,3 MacPro1 ,1 MacPro2 ,1 MacPro3 ,1 MacPro4 ,1 MacPro5 ,1 Macmini2 ,1 Macmini3 ,1 Macmini4 ,1 iMac5 ,1 iMac6 ,1 iMac7 ,1 iMac8 ,1 iMac9 ,1 iMac10 ,1 iMac11 ,1 iMac11 ,2 iMac11 ,3 iMac12 ,1 iMac12 ,2 How do you know your Model Identifier ? Open System Information , and look in the Hardware Overview section . i.e. click Apple menu - > About this Mac - > More Info ... - > Report - > Hardware - > and now read down the Hardware Overview looking for " Model Identifier : " Having found your 041-XXXXX number , download the BootCampESD.pkg url that has your number in it . Again , here 's a list of them : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Be patient as it 's probably 600MB . Once your pkg is downloaded , double click it and install to a folder on your hard drive so you know where to find it . The folder contains a nest of folders , the last of which contains a dmg disk image file . Double click to open . Voila . Here are your Windows installer files . Copy them to a USB drive , or a burnable CD . It 's still 660MB or more , so it 's a full CD worth of burning time . Done . You can now proceed with Boot Camp assistant Windows installation . source : <URL> . The page was aimed at people struggling with BootCamp , but either way , it gets you to the BootCamp.pkg file , which contains the drivers . You still need open the OS X installer pkg file to get the the contents out , and to open a DMG file . If you are already in Windows , 7-zip will open it : <URL>
No , it is not implemented yet . In the meanwhile , you can use <URL> for MSN chat as an iChat extension .
Yes . The Monster Beats cables are fully compatible with Apple hardware . They have a mic to support voice actions and Siri . They also have all the hardware buttons for playing music and making phone calls . I happen to own the Beats Solo headphones . This is what the packaging says : " Made for iPod " , " Made for iPhone " and " Made for iPad " mean that an electronic accessory has been designed to connect specifically to iPod , iPhone or iPad , respectively , and has been certified by the developer to meet Apple performance standards . ( also see <URL> on Apple 's website ) These minimum standards would include voice and button actions using the headset .
They are on one of the installation disks that comes with your iMac . Also , I 'm pretty sure the drivers get installed if you download and run a " <URL> " from Apple 's support site . They are usually 200MB or up downloads that come packed with drivers for windows , so give it a try in case you ca n't find your cds .
Short answer : Yes . Some Apps ( usually those with paid content ) prohibit video output via AirPlay or AV-Adapters . There 's no way I know of to get around the issue . For some , not all , a HDMI adapter works because of " <URL> "
I know I 'm replying on an old question , but I came in here googling . My iPhone 4 had the same behavior , I just updated to iTunes 10 and I my music is no longer greyed out . In essence : upgrade to iTunes 10 and you should be able to do this .
You can use the Recovery partition to reinstall OS X . This will keep your user account but reset all system files . To reinstall OS X , boot with ⌘ R and select the Reinstall OS X option , then follow the instructions . Additionally , this file is normally backed up to the local time machine store , so try entering Time Machine even if you do n't have your drive connected to see about restoring that file . Worst case , have some trusted people MD5 check sum the app on 10.8.5 if you want to risk downloading it from a stranger instead of from a friend 's backup or Mac .
The copying should work without a problem , but if you happen to upgrade to Snow Leopard at the same time , you might run into some compatibility issues , depending on the " ports " you have installed . Same goes for old " ports " that may have been specifically built for your old system ( maybe processor dependent ) , you could run into problems there , too . Remember to run , and the installed ports ( where needed ) .
I found a solution that works for my needs : As it turns out , I should not lock the screen , but instead start the screensaver , and require the screensaver to immediately require a password . I created a ' Start Screensaver ' service with Automator , and then selected a keyboard shortcut for that service under Settings - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts - > Services .
Try System Prefs > User &amp; Groups > Your name > Login Items . Select it in the list &amp; click the - button underneath If it 's not listed there , then check either or to see whether it has an entry in there . It 's safe to remove items from there - though they will continue running until the next reboot . If you want to be able to restore functionality in future , zip the file in situ then trash the original .
You can only dial emergency numbers , which vary by country/region ( 911 in the US ; certain countries such as France have multiple emergency numbers ) . Dialing regular numbers produces the following error : Starting with iOS 8 , you may also dial emergency contacts by opening your Medical ID . Interestingly , as of iOS 9.3.4 , if you have one of those numbers memorized , you can not punch it in directly . You must go through the Medical ID to ring it up .
I do n't mind the alert or warning , but I do mind the weeks of having a blinking icon in my Menubar . Here 's what I did in Terminal : This replaces the low battery icon with the same connected icon . I assume the icon is still " blinking " in that it 's switching one for the other , but since they 're now the same , you do n't notice . Now I get the 20 % , 10 % , 5 % alerts , but no annoying blink . This is in Lion . It 's likely that system updates and perhaps even Mountain Lion will undo this , but it can probably be reapplied after updates are performed . For Mountain Lion , the relevant files are named :
This is mentioned in the release notes for 1.0.1 : <URL>
Once you use the Instant Send hotkey to select the file in Launchbar ... You can start typing " Applications " to select your folder . Then press Return and select Copy to " Applications " from the menu .
Yes , you can . The system , cache , or any hardware-specific data such as drivers are not backed up . Even if they were , any installation of OS X contains the necessary drivers for any supported Mac model by that version of the system ( with the exception of printer drivers IIRC , which are not included to save space and will be downloaded ) .
end question
start question
How do I send a group email on my iPad Air ?
The tick mark does n't mean that you 've added them to the To field -- it just means that you 've narrowed down the list of contacts to that group . When you tap the + button to add to the To field , by default it shows All Contacts . Pressing Groups lets you narrow down this list to that specific group , but you still need to select the people that you want to send the email to . Tap them in the list ( and select their email if necessary ) to add them to the To field .
An iPad does n't offer the same capabilities as a Wacom graphics tablet . At best -- Eazel excepted -- you 'll only be able to control the cursor on the mac or pc . There are many of those types of programs for the iPad in iTunes from the free touch mouse ( iPhone only ) to iTeleport ( iPad , US$ 25 ) . Graphics tablets are n't that expensive , especially compared to an iPad . The cheapest Wacom tablet in the USA goes for $ 200 or so . Ask someone you know to give you one for your birthday or appropriate holiday . If you know enough people , you might even be able to find one for free . I gave away my old Wacom Graphire last year when I bought a new Intuos . Ebay shows used Graphires for a variety of prices ; make sure used tablets include the pen and mouse . I also have made video tutorials using a graphics tablet and Photoshop . I have not settled on which video capture software to use . There are too many for me recommend one .
The MacBook Air should have come with a bootable USB flash drive for OS reinstalls . Use that and follow the same steps as 10.5.x .
There is a <URL> which allows you to publish your books . <URL> .
I 've looked around for this several times but today I just found its hiding spot -- the 0 key ! Just hold 0 until the alternate characters are shown . In the case of 0 , the only alternate character is ' ° ' .
Run this Terminal command ( as an administrator ) , replacing " usersaccountname " with the user 's actual account name : When it prompts you , enter your password ( it wo n't echo ) . That user should now be able to administer printers .
I believe that what is happening is that you have multiple email accounts setup , and when you go to compose you are using the outgoing of account A , and when you reply/forward you are attempting to use the outgoing of account B . So to fix , check your outgoing account settings for the account that you can not reply emails for .
The only legal way to transfer the iLife applications from him to you would be if he had the original iLife installation DVD that used to ship with new Macs . Being that it 's an Air , and does n't have a DVD slot on it , it 's unlikely he still has that media . Unfortunately , you 're stuck with re-buying the iLife applications from the App Store using your own Apple ID . Using his App Store ID to put the software on your Mac and then switching the ID to your account would definitely be on the wrong side of Apple 's terms of service .
You do n't . ( not without jail breaking iOS ) More sadly , we 've gone from the situation on iOS 4 - > 5 - > 6 - > iOS 7 and still can not choose what certificates are trusted by the OS . This is either a bug in the iPhone configuration utility or an unimplimented feature . If you care , do reach out to apple to ask for this . <URL> or <URL> Unless you are comfortable writing a technically correct bug , the feedback link is a better avenue . Calling AppleCare or asking for this at the genius bar might also be worthwhile .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
When you do this , you should get a dropdown selection box that has your various email addresses in it . You can choose in there . If your gmail does n't show up there , then go to iPhoto in the menu , click Preferences , click Accounts , click the plus , click Email , click Add , click Gmail , and provide the relevant info .
Do n't stress about it so much . A Battery cycle refers to , more or less , one mostly full discharge and recharge . Typically , your battery should be rated for somewhere in the neighborhood of 1000 cycles . Eventually , the battery just wo n't hold a charge for as long as it did when it was new , but that 's why batteries are <URL> It 's a consumable part . If it dies prematurely ( which is the only thing you should really need to pay attention to cycles for ) , then it 's covered under your warranty . The ' Battery Cycles ' indicator is mainly there so that you can diagnose this . If , in a years time , your laptop 's battery only lasts half as long as it did when it was new , but you 've only used say , 400 cycles , well , that 's not performing up to spec , and it should be covered under your warranty . If you 've used 1500 cycles ( doing that in a year would be some pretty heavy and impressive use though , I 've got ta say ) , well , that 's to be expected . You used your battery a lot , and it wore out . Use your laptop as normal . Battery cycles are not a scarce and precious resource to be hoarded . 12 cycles in about a week and a half sounds pretty normal for a new laptop being used heavily to me . That 's about , what ? 6 hours/day unconnected to a power source ? If you 're using it on the go , that 's a perfectly reasonable amount of consumption .
It is possible to set a conversation in Messages to " Do Not Disturb " . This will cause notifications to stop and will put a small moon icon next to the conversation . Works great !
The iOS version of Sparrow has just been released , and it contains this functionality . In the settings for email accounts you can set up aliases . You can also set up a custom signature and SMTP server for each alias : When composing a message , by default it will be sent from your default alias . If you want to change this , tap the " From " in the top center and you will be able to select which alias you want this message to come from : Sparrow is available in the <URL> .
Try Adobe Reader . You can use iTunes to transfer PDF files to and from it and send them by email too . ( Tested on an iPad ; probably works the same way on an iPhone . )
It would depend on how you want to access the file . Here 's what I do : Initiate the connection to the remote computer ( I do it via Finder - > Go - > Connect to Server [ or Command + K ] ) but you can also do via terminal using the command Connect to the shared folder/volume available to your user When connecting to those in Terminal , you would now use the path to access them . For example , if you connected to a folder called Stuff with a subfolder called Things , and ultimately file jackpot.txt on ip 10.10.1.5 , first connect via smb to the server ( 10.10.1.5 ) , choose the folder Stuff , and then reference that path in Terminal as / Volumes/Stuff/Things / jackpot.txt EDIT : You can also run a Find command ( Command + F ) inside of Finder while you are connected to the share if you still do n't know where the file is . Do the following : Open Finder , connect to the server/volume ( Steps 1 +2 above ) Run Command + F to Find , enter your search term Above the Finder section where files display , switch the search to " Shared " - this will run the search against connected volumes Locate the file you want , and then drag + drop it into an open Terminal window The path will be shown in Terminal
You do n't get charged for app upgrades on iOS . You only get notification for free updates .
At an educated guess , I would say the following is happening : Exchange is designed to push - and the exchange server is no doubt pushing to Apple servers - regardless of whether you have push enabled on the iPad or not , it 's just how it works . When you connect to the Apple store , you connect to the Apple notification server ( or renew your connection to it ) and in doing so pick up any mail that has n't been collected from the exchange server yet . I would imagine the same would happen with other push notifications as they pass to the Apple server whether they are enabled on your iPad or not . What would be interesting to test is whether this happens with a conventionally configured Gmail account - which would probably shed more light on what is happening .
iOS does not provide a shortcut for skipping directly to the bottom of documents , but there is a reasonable alternative , if you 're not already aware of it : scrolling views in iOS respond to swipe frequency , scrolling more quickly the more quickly and frequently you swipe the screen . While swiping a long document , email , or webpage , try several long , quick swipes in rapid succession : you should notice the scrolling speed accelerate accordingly . This is n't nearly as elegant as a tap shortcut , but does let you quickly skip to the bottom of a long view .
The option you 're looking for is located at . Turning this off will send all messages individually to their recipients . Note : Disabling MMS Messaging will remove the Group Messaging toggle from the list . Note : Some cellular service providers do not support Group Messaging , so if you have MMS enabled , and you still do n't see Group Messaging , then it 's likely that your provider does not support it . From Apple : <URL>
end question
start question
Where is my Skype profile picture stored on OS X ?
I 've just tried this , and the answer was unexpected ... When I created the image it was stored in the following folder :
The Xscope app has a presbyopia filter that does a light blur . <URL> I see several large screen sizes , but you might not get your whole screen blurred . It works very well on the latest release of OS X and you can try it out for free I believe . If you 're a programmer and not just looking for a ready-made tool , you would do worse to try something other than Brad Larson 's tutorial on GPU accelerated video processing at <URL>
It 's stored in an <URL> on the file . Specifically the attribute . It may stay with the file when you move it to different computers , but it depends on the filesystem or file sharing protocol you use . If you move it to another Mac on an HFS + disk , it will likely keep it , but not necessarily if you transfer over the network , and most likely not with an external disk with a non-HFS + filesystem . You can check a file by running in the Terminal , or remove it with . flag is also useful ; it will list the names of xattrs along with the usual ls information . If you want to remove it from multiple files , have a look at this question : <URL>
I just solved it ! SOLUTION : 1 . Activate the OS X Root User in the System Preferences . How to activate the root user : <URL> 2 . After the root user is activated , log out from your account and log in as the user " root " . Go to System Preferences - > Displays - > Color and pick the color profile ( that you want on your OS X Login Screen ) . Log out of the Root Account and you 'll see the selected color profile will be used on the Login Screen . 3 . Log back in to your normal account . Now you can deactivate the root user via System Preferences , the same way it was activated . The color profile selected via root user earlier will stay . Result : The color does n't change anymore between Login Screen and account and I do n't have a yellow/dark login screen anymore , finally ! Could Apple make that easier ? YES ! But that 's a pretty fast way to do it , without any " hacking " tricks .
The easiest method to show which folder an email is currently located is to right click on the header bar in Outlook and add the " folder " ( visible columns have a check mark to the left of it ) column to the current view . This will show you which folder said email is contained in when you perform a search . If you no longer wish to have the " folder " seen in the current view just reverse the process to hide it again . If this is your only customization to the current view you can alternately choose to " reset to defaults " by right clicking on the header bar and choosing the reset to defaults action .
Be sure to click the mouse once to wake it up , because it will likely have gone to sleep .
These steps assume that you already have purchased OS X 10.9 through the Mac App Store . Open the Mac App Store Press the Alt Key and hold it during the following steps Click at the purchased tab Scroll to OS X Mavericks Click at the Download button If you already have OS X Mavericks installed , you will be asked if you want to continue Click continue Now , you can release the Alt Key To get the dmg file : 1 . Go to the downloaded install application in the applications folder 2 . Control + click on the installer , and choose Show Package Contents , and choose Show Package Contents . 3 . Navigate to 4 . The file you are looking for is called If you need a file , you have to <URL>
Use <URL> . Freeware . You can assign macros to any button with this wonderful tool .
wrt the issues above : Yes you can . Very effectively . Just be aware that your Django sites wo n't integrate into Server App 's GUI unless you restrict yourself to python 2.7 ; Apache mod_wsgi ; no virtualenvs . Not if you wish to proxy to a wsgi server like Gunicorn , because when you save the Website 's panel , OS X Server will sanitise some of your essential Apache directives and you will lose control over how your Django static files , for example , are served . OS X Server has a particular execution and configuration model in mind and it does a good job of managing websites that accord with that model - but at the cost of flexibility . I know that people successully deploy Django using Apache 's mod_wsgi , but that comes with severe limitations . As in 2 . The section of the plist for your web app in OS X Server 's directory is all-or-nothing . e.g. . You ca n't Include a in the right place for it to have effect . Not with Apache mod_wsgi . No . OS X Server 3.2.1 uses Apache 2.2 . Proxies via UDS was not included in Apache until later . ( Perhaps you could have Apache proxy to Nginx ( via a TCP port ) and , in turn , proxying to Gunicorn via each Django site 's own UDS ... if you thought there was a compelling reason . ) Yes . The approach I took : Put your application 's Apache file in OS X Server 's directory where it will be left alone by the Server app . Forget about trying to use the Server GUI and ' binding ' web apps to sites through its Advanced settings window . A nice idea but ... Use virtualenv ( wrapper ) to set up the different python and package versions for a more future-proof approach ... OS X Server 4 on Yosemite coming up ! Example code : . conf for Django virtual server This is adapted directly from the file that OS X Server generates from its GUI with these main differences : is off by default . prevents the Alias directive from being ignored . I found that , when including this directive using the Apple-recommended web app . plist section , the Included lines were in the wrong place to have the desired effect . your SITENAME and PORT : LaunchDaemon plist for Gunicorn wsgi server your SITENAME ; REVERSED_SITENAME and PORT : Snippet from the OS X Server 's Shows virtualenv paths specified by the virtualenvwrapper environment variables Snippet from the Fabric automation file Shows : The target paths - the directories where your configuration files will end up ; The commands to activate the Django site in the final steps in deployment
iDVD is only available through physycal media copies of the latest iLife package . Preloaded iLife suites no longer include it , and I do not believe you can download it , either from Apple or as a paid product via the Mac App Store . But if you have the media from an old machine , you should be able to install it happily enough though , it 's not changed since iLife ' 08 , so almost any media will do ... Bear in mind that if you are using for example the bundled media from an old Mac on a different Mac , chances are that the installer package is tied to the original Mac . But it 's trivial to work around . Right click on the installer , click Show Contents . It will show you the contents of the installer program , which is just a wrapper around the actual packages . Somewhere there is an ilife.pkg for installing everything , but also individual ones for each app including iDVD - I do n't have anything to hand to check the exact names or locations , but hunt around . Then run the individual packages for iDVD ( same goes for iWeb which is also deprecated in the same way ) .
For comparisons , see : <URL> Agreed with the others : yes , use SBCL or CCL . CCL makes it easier to invoke ObjC libraries , such as for writing native Mac Apps . That becomes the tie-breaker for some . ( Personally , I 've enjoyed using both but tend to stay current on SBCL as my main compiler for server software . ) For completeness : CCL is Clozure CL ( not to be confused with one spelled using " j " in middle , which is another dialect than Common Lisp ) . SBCL compiles to faster code , and CCL has shorter compile times . Both are solid compilers . For targeting iOS/iPhone/iPad , there 's been some success with ECL . See : <URL> But I would n't consider this a front-runner and have n't actually used it myself yet beyond samples posted on that blog . Although MacOSX thread support is considered experimental with SBCL and self tests will fail if you compile from sources ( which is required to enable threads ) , threads work well enough for most cases . I 've deployed heavily threaded production code by developing on MacOSX then releasing to servers running FreeBSD ( which also has similar issues with threads ) and Debian/Ubuntu Linux ( very stable ) . This has served me well for the past 5-6 years , including at a few start-ups . QuickLisp ( for obtaining libraries ) is very stable on SBCL/MacOSX . Have n't tried it on CCL but should be rock solid there too !
Try the <URL> . While it 's not free , it is cheap : $ 6.99 . See reviews <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . Below is the description from the product page , and a screenshot : Boom is a simple volume booster and system-wide equalizer that lets you boost the volume of your Mac and your music files . Using Boom is simple . You know the ways to change the volume of your Mac . Boom provides the same easy access to boost sound . From the videos on YouTube , Hulu , your favorite music playing on iTunes , to voice applications like Skype , iChat and your favorite Games , Boom can boost them all . [ ... ] ( emphasis above is mine ) I use Boom on my own MacBook Air and it does a reasonable job of increasing the internal speaker volume beyond what I was getting with the built-in volume controls at maximum . The graphic equalizer is an added bonus , letting me tweak the sound I get from these tiny speakers so it sounds a bit better for music .
Mac OS X does n't store passwords for the command-line ssh client . It can however remember the password to your private key in the Keychain if you are authenticating via keys .
Where the list of disabled fonts is stored depends on the version of OS X you are using . First of all , the and have never been used by Apple for the handling of disabled fonts ; rather , fonts are simply deactivated in place : there 's no need to move them out of the / Fonts / folder in order to deactivate them . Those folders are most likely created by the Microsoft Office installer for Mac , or some other application installer . As I mentioned , where the list of deactivated fonts is stored depends on the version of OS X you 're using . OS X 10.3 : stores a list of file paths to the fonts which have been disabled in Font Book . OS X 10.4 -- 10.6 : The enabled or disabled state of a particular font is stored within the font cache files themselves . There is no saved external record ( like the preference file used in 10.3 ) of which fonts were disabled . In OS X 10.7.x and later , while the enabled or disabled state of a particular font is still stored within the font cache files themselves , an external record of which fonts were disabled is stored in .
OK . I found out myself ... Luckily Apple did not remove the Finder Merge functionality with Mavericks . But sometimes it is not offered to the user . But let me explain : Supose you have a folder named TARGET with a subfolder TARGET/SomeStuff . And you have a SomeStuff folder somewhere else . Now drag this second SomeStuff folder to the TARGET folder ( without any modifier keys pressed ) then the Finder will presented you the following dialog ( Stop and Replace ) : So , no merge here . Now - if you instead press the Alt key while you drop the SomeStuff folder to the TARGET folder there are two possibilities : 1 . ) If the files in the two SomeStuff Folder have completely different ( not overlapping ) contents . In other words : no duplicate filenames . Then finder will give you these options ( Stop , Merge &amp; Replace All ) : So , here you can merge . And the result will be a TARGET/SomeStuff folder with the content of both SomeStuff folders . 2 . ) But here comes what is sometimes confusing ( and actually made me think merging is gone in Mavericks ) : if there exists at least one filename that is contained in both SomeStuff folders , then merging is not possible . Then the finder will offer you these options ( Do n't Replace , Stop , Replace ) : So , no merge possible , here too !
The root CAs are stored in : / System/Library/Keychains / SystemCACertificates.keychain / System/Library/Keychains / SystemRootCertificates.keychain Yes , these are OS X keychain files which are opaque , though not necessarily proprietary . You could theoretically use OS X 's Keychain Services APIs to get at the certificate data inside the keychain file , but that might be overkill . If you want a tangible copy of any of the root CA certificates , just select it in Keychain Access , and drag them to the Desktop to make a copy of them in . cer format . ( You can also use Quick Look in the Finder to preview the certificate info ) .
In a nutshell , how would one access this feature in Finder -- not Spotlight ( Command + Space ) -- but the adding of tags themselves ? From Finder , highlight a file and hit Cmd-I ( or right click and select Get Info ) to bring up the File Info Dialog for the file . In this dialog the Spotlight Comments field is where you add tag data . Just add text to this field to " tag " the file . Here 's a good article on how to become a meta-data wizard in OS X : <URL> If was tagging that screen capture I might use the following in the comments box : So that I could find that screen shot by the customer , or by the fact that it 's being used in a presentation , or by the name of the product I 'm showing them . Where are these tags stored ? Do they go in . DS_Store ( I tend to delete those ! ) or elsewhere in the filesystem ? Yes , they 're stored in the files you see in each folder . These files are read by Finder . The information <URL> . Spotlight will prefer to read the data from EAs . EAs are a feature of the HFS + filesystem , so remote filesystems might not necessarily have EAs available on files . In these cases , files are the fallback . Spotlight would also have a tag < - > file mapping section in its database but that 's only accessible to Spotlight . Does this tagging mechanism work on removable drives ? What are the requirements ? Generally : yes . You can add tags to files and folders on removable drives and remote shares . Unless you 've turned off creation on remote shares , OS X will just add these files and keep the meta-data there for you . Does this tagging mechanism work over a network share ? I have some Windows SMB network shares at home that I frequently store files on . Would it work on those or is another configuration required ? Yes , see above . If you did n't want OS X to do this run : And then restart Finder . Aside from Spotlight , are there any command-line tools for searching through or accessing the tag data for files ? Lots ! Here 's a list of 7 file-tagging applications for OS X : <URL> I personally love and use <URL> which is like Spotlight on steroids .
You 're probably looking for Skype 2.8.0.866 ( PPC ) , which you can find searching the <URL> website . It was released on 29 November , 2010 . Supported Systems : Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard ( PowerPC )
The only way to obtain Mavericks legally is through the App Store , sorry .
Gmail may be set to synchronise with your Address Book . Go to your address book , and select the " me " card that you will previously have chosen as your own identify within Address Book . Whatever picture is being used by your " me " card ( or potentially by whatever card has a matching email address as the one your messages app is linked to ) should be the one Messages uses .
end question
start question
OS X Mavericks : Disabling Smart Zoom In Safari ?
You can disable Smart Zoom by going to System Preferences → Trackpad → Scroll &amp; Zoom and unchecking the Smart zoom gesture .
The preference for this used to be located in Finder > Preferences . It 's no longer available and after some research online , it looks like no one has discovered a way to turn this on using a plist edit . You might consider telling Apple about how much you miss this : <URL>
Flipping Byte flip and word flip will swap bytes or words . Technically it works like this : Let 's say we have a two byte value ( hexadecimal ) : 0x3344 The number consists of two bytes , the lower one is 0x44 , and the higher one is 0x33 , so let 's put them into two imaginary cells of one byte size : Now , flip the cells : Therefore byte flipped value will be 0x4433 Same way with words , considering word consists of two bytes . Let 's assume we have a two-word value : 0x12345678 Split them into two imaginary cells , now containing one word ( 2 bytes ) each : Now , flip the cells : Therefore word flipped value will be 0x56781234 Shifting Shifting shifts values bitwise . What does it mean ? Let 's take a very simple decimal number : 5 Then , let 's convert it to its binary representation : 101 Then , let 's shift it left by 1 : We basically moved the whole binary sequence left one position and filled the empty space with zero . Now do the same , but with shifting right : our number is 10 now . The lower 1 is lost by shifting right . The zero on the left is just for display and has no value . / / Technically there 's a CPU flag which indicates that the bit was lost , but it is not relevant to the calculator . Rotating Rotating works absolutely same as shifting with one exception : bits are never lost . So , we take the same decimal value 5 and its binary representation 101 . Then we rotate it right within a byte : As you can see , the [ 1 ] which was lost on the shifting right was carried on the beginning of our byte . Same with shifting left , let 's perform series of rotations by 1 bit left until we carry one bit :
Updated at May 2015 , with current solutions . Free solutions <URL> - Successor to MacFUSE <URL> Last updated 2010 , pretty much abandoned in favour of the Paid version , Tuxera , unless you want to build from source . Last version linked from <URL> Paid solutions <URL> <URL> MacFuse is abandonware , and has n't been updated since 2009 .
Unfortunately the NFS GUI tools have been removed from disk utility in Mavericks . However the NFS manager tool ( www.bresink.com/osx/NFSManager.html ) can replace that functionality and provide even more fine grained control than disk utility 's implementation did . If you want this NFS mount to remain mounted persistently you can also use automounter which is a CLI only tool .
Maybe Do n't give <URL> a try , see disclaimer below . There are better options available , see other answers to this question . Awesome Screenshot is a browser plugin that can capture the full site the visible part or a selection of the site . It also allows for basic annotation of the screenshot as well as downloading it or saving it on the web for access by URL . Available as extension to Safari , Firefox and Chrome . DISCLAIMER : there are <URL> that Awesome Screenshot sends information about your browser history to third party servers . I would not recommend this after all . It also has a history of integrating <URL> in it 's extension and then <URL> .
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
There 's no need to take out RAM , create a RAM disk or use a VM . Simply boot the OS using the boot flag value that 's been created for this purpose and been around for decades . Simply open Terminal as a sudoer and enter After entering your password change to and write the changes to disk with ctrlo and quit nano with ctrlx Restart your Mac to apply the changes . To revert the changes remove ' maxmem = 2048 ' with nano again .
So far the only risk I 've found is that some applications will overwrite the custom extended attributes . TextEdit is one such example . It will remove the attribute and add a quarantined attribute in its place , which will cause the Finder to give you a warning ( that it was downloaded from the internet ) when you open it . So if you do n't want to lose the metadata you 've added to your custom attributes , do n't open in unsafe applications like TextEdit . TextMate and SublimeText 2 and do n't damage your data , however . ( And as for name collisions , just follow the reverse DNS naming that Java uses . For example ' com.yourdomain.yourcustomname ' . )
Macs do not have Activation Lock . The only Find My iPhone lock that is present on OS X is the force lock from selecting the device in the Find My iPhone device list and clicking Lock . Simply reinstalling OS X ca n't lock a Mac unlike iOS Activation Lock . Note that Find My Mac will register the serial number ( or other hardware identifier ) for the purposes of recording a single Mac and that reinstalling OS X will not remove this identifier from Apple 's servers and may show a " Find My Mac is already in use " message if you attempt to set it up in the future .
There is no keypress or gesture to do this unfortunately . But here is a quick way to achieve a similar thing . Create a new bookmark in safari ( of any web page ) Edit this bookmark ( press edit in bookmark screen ) Rename the bookmark to End In the address field cut and paste this text Once you save this bookmark , you will be able to hit the bookmark button , select End and it will take you to the bottom of the web page . I know it 's not as simple as the current scroll to top feature ( this solution requires two taps ) , but its really the only option at the moment .
Open System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy > Privacy > Accessibility > " Click the lock to make changes " > Select " Cinch "
You can use the aptly named iOS app , <URL> to do this . Here 's what a site looks like in Safari on an iPhone : <URL> Here 's what the same site looks like in the aforementioned app on the same iPhone : <URL> I 'll bet there are other apps out there that do this . Albeit a little rough around the edges and ad-supported , this one is free and gets the job done .
This is a very wide reaching question , but to answer the central theme , the rough equivalent of explorer.exe on Windows is the application . Finder is the only application you can not remove from your dock , mainly because it is the finder that runs the dock etc , much like explorer.exe runs the taskbars etc in Windows ( I think I got that right for windows ) You can kill the finder , and it will automatically re-spawn . The equivalent of Task Manager would be as a graphical app , and of course you have a fully featured Unix command line environment in , which allows you to interact with processes using all sorts of commands , for example : ( lists active processes ) ( send interupt request 9 , or terminate with extreme prejudice to the process number 243 ) There is no Registry in OS X , which is nice because that was a horrible idea ( in my opinion ) , but settings and preferences etc are commonly stored in files that reside in either the system or an individual users folder , which I suppose could be analogous to the windows \ system or user \ application data folders in Windows .
I 've written an AppleScript script which toggles the Zoom style : You can use Keyboard Maestro or any other script launching app to run this script on a keyboard shortcut .
<URL> provides a compatibility list for multiple versions of OS X . You can search for an application by name or compatibility status , to quickly scan for apps that are known to be incompatible . <URL> <URL> Apps can be <URL> , and also includes iOS compatibility if applicable . You can also check for feature support , to see if apps contain the latest features available in the new OS , such as iCloud Keychain and App Nap .
You can only move spaces which are non-active . For example , lets say you have spaces 1 and 2 . If space 1 is active , you can not move it . You first have to select space 2 then you can move space 1 to a different monitor .
No it does n't trigger to run any process . Because the process is always running . The process for doing these kind of things is <URL> . Click <URL> for more information .
It all really depends . Truth is , you 'll see some memory improvement in the spaces application and of course one less " daemon " running in the background . Switching to spaces is a GPU ( and to some degree ) CPU operation and also memory ( both RAM and VRAM ) is interacting in the process . Try disabling spaces and work for a few days . You also do n't mention your OS version or your amount of RAM . What Macbook do you have ? Perhaps the best improvement comes from adding more RAM .
Great page , though I did n't find the PHP versions there . Nevertheless , OS X 10.9 came with PHP 5.4 :)
end question
start question
What happens at a low level when a directory from Finder is dragged to an app icon , such as TextMate ?
At a low level , everything on the disk is a file . So a folder is a special file that contains directory information pointing to more files . The application is told that the file should be opened - and it 's up to the program to determine what type of file was passed and decide whether to recursively handle that file by reading the files contained in that folder or take some other action . Similarly , you can select many items in Finder and drop them on an icon and the same sort of file open event is posted to the application so that it can process the files and do what needs to be done .
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
There is an <URL> . You do n't need to keep a sim in the phone but you need to put one into it to activate it before taking it back out . Here 's the procedure for 3G and 3GS : You can use any SIM card associated with the carrier that your device supports to activate the phone . Simply place a SIM card from the last carrier with which you used your iPhone into the device , and activate it . Then remove the SIM card . You can now use the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS as you would an iPod touch ( Wi-Fi only , no cellular service ) . Note : You can use the activated SIM card from your new iPhone to do this . To re-activate an iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS that displays the " Connect to iTunes " screen : Insert a SIM card from the carrier with which you used your phone . Note : If you are using the same carrier , you can use the activated SIM card from your new device to do this . If your device is unlocked by your carrier , you can use any SIM card . Connect the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS to iTunes on a computer connected to the Internet . iTunes will then activate the device . You can remove the SIM card at this point and use the iPhone as if it were an iPod touch .
Some step by step instructions can be found <URL> . After opening Disk Utility : Click the New Image icon Place the contents of folder/directory into the newly created disk image .
As of Mac OS X 10.7 Lion , Terminal has exactly this feature . If you emit a bell ( BEL , Control-G ) in a background tab or window , the Terminal application Dock icon will show a badge with the number of " unread " bells and a bell icon is displayed in the tab of the terminal ( If there is only one tab in the window , choose View > Show Tab Bar to see the tab , which also displays other status information . ) This also applies to minimized windows . When you bring the window to the front or select the background tab , the bell indicator is removed from the tab and the badge count goes down .
Nope , there 's no such setting in OS X . This has lead to the creation of a number of sleep-prevention apps : <URL> Simple app but lets you set options for each : <URL> A preference pane for enabling/disabling sleep-prevention .
No , you can not , for a number of reasons : Most ( when I say most , I mean all but a few ) Jailbreak tweaks modify files outside of your user profile . This is a separate partition and can not be accessed unless you have root access ( you have to be Apple or you have to be Jailbroken ) . Jailbreaking , from a low-level point-of-view , simply makes it so you can run unsigned code on iOS , which allows you to break out of the sandbox environment in . This allows you to install Cydia , modify system files , and gain root access . If you notice in your iOS browser on your computer , you can only access things in ( or it might even call it , because that 's what a sandbox does - it 's ) . Even if the file browser is cool enough to read on your true , it 's not going to be able to write . With that being said , you 're going to have to Jailbreak in order to install Jailbreak tweaks . Note : I have n't used Phone Disk , but iFunBox is pretty much the same thing .
It depends on the service order set in System Preferences - > Network . The first one that has a route to the requested endpoint will be used . Click on the wheel icon at the bottom left and choose . Then drag the items into the required order . This is the order on m machine which I do not think I have altered .
While TextMate does n't have built-in FTP or SSH capabilities there are a few bundles for it that have tried to remedy this shortcoming . In particular the <URL> aims to provide what you seek : a way to define a " project " that can be synchronized ( both up and down ) with a remote file system . The bundle is a touch dangerous if you 're using FTP as it requires your password be left in plaintext in the file that you leave on disk at the root of your project folder to tell the plugin how to connect to your remote file system . The other option , if you 're not set on TextMate and just want something like TextMate , is to take a look at <URL> . I 'll be honest , I was a die hard TextMate guy , but in the last six weeks Sublime Text 2 has won me over . The active development from the company on the product , the very active bundle community , and it 's incredible speed when it comes to working on large files have really taken me in . There 's an <URL> for ST2 that 's a cut above the plugin for TM I mentioned above . It leverages keychain for password storage and does n't require you keep your passwords in plaintext on disk for it to work . It also lets you set up mappings for remote < - > local connections directly from the editor UI .
Under Settings → Users → [ you ] → Login Items → select iTunesHelper , then click the minus sign and log out/into your Mac . No devices will cause iTunes to launch ( that 's the whole purpose of iTunesHelper ) .
No , not directly . You can buy any number of HDMI capture hardware that connect via thunderbolt or FireWire and use a thunderbolt FireWire adapter .
There is no consensus on whether the app must quit when you close the last window or if the app continues to run , so the decision is left to each developer to decide on an app by app basis . What is true is that quitting an app does release the resources it took - even if some files and code are still stored in RAM or cache until those stores get flushed or used for caching other apps and files at a later time . Furthermore , there is no restriction prohibiting bad coding , hogging memory , using CPU when no real tasks should be executing , so that as well varies on a case by case basis . Both Windows and OS X have very good scheduling smarts , paging systems , thread control , etc. . . and the CPU are all the same in terms of shutting down cores and lowering/raising the frequency based on load to save power and give a " turbo boost " when only one core is executing a single thread . OS X is starting to let apps signal that they support sudden termination - so that the OS can handle automatic termination , sudden termination and automatic document saving ( plus versions ) for an app developer . So even if you have told the OS to run a program it can and will decide to " quit " the process so that it wo n't consume resources while you are doing other things with the computer . Lastly , with PowerNap on OS X hardware , the line between alseep and awake begins to blur with the system waking partially to perform periodic network tasks which make OS X a bit different than traditional UNIX and Windows in terms of thinking about apps and resource usage . More reading : <URL> - covers both apps that quit when its window closes and those that do not . Further down , the discussion of termination is fairly readable but also technically detailed <URL>
After a quick test , everything but " Call Time : Lifetime " and the statistics under " Time since last full charge " was reset . It only makes sense that the field " Call Time : Lifetime " does n't get reset since it shows the the total physical time the phone was being used to call . If it was restored and set up as a new phone I believe that the setting will then be reset since it will be technically a new life for the phone . Unless AT&amp;T / Verizon keeps track of that data through your number . Then you would change your number to reset that field . Though I would n't be trying that anytime soon .
There are several options you can use here . They can do practically the same : <URL> : It 's an app which will allow you to create watchlist and share them with your friends . And you can even write reviews for movies and share them with your friends . <URL> : My personal favorite since it has the biggest library and community . You can watch trailers , share items , see actors , make cross-references , share movies with your friends and make watchlists . I personally enjoy using this app ! And something out of category : <URL> : Here you can check into movies/books/shows / music / ... you saw/read/watched / listened . And you can follow your friends and by so , see what they 've been up to . It 's not really what you want , but it 's the closest I could find !
If you can transfer the document to a general-purpose app that " knows " about files ( like <URL> , <URL> , or iBooks ) , you should be able to access it from the file-handling dialog from within iTunes . Most computers can create an ad-hoc WiFi network ; using this , you 'd use a network-sharing app ( like <URL> ) to mount a disk from your iPhone and transfer the files to your computer .
By default , no , there 's no keyboard shortcut to activate Finder . <URL> can do this though :
To access any folder in Finder , press Cmd + Shift + G and enter the directory you want to access .
Network Link Conditioner You can create a custom profile for Network Link Conditioner , using the following settings : It is a free download in Xcode ( go to Xcode → Open Developer Tool → More Developer Tools ... and download the Hardware IO Tools for Xcode ) .
To answer directly to your two questions : a ) No , you ca n't redefine what is bold and what is normal as far as I know , Medium and Light are different styles than Regular and Bold and there is n't a keyboard shortcut to set them ( nor a menu item for that ) and because of the latter , you ca n't set a keyboard shortcut . b ) Because of ( a ) , you ca n't really do this . A ( lame ) alternative is to use Copy Style cmd + alt + c and paste style cmd + alt + v . But that requires that you find a piece of text that has the same size/font . Also having the Formatting bar visible makes it easier ( albeit with the mouse ) to change that : shift + cmd + R.
After seeing @Lri 's answer I discovered that my original service would work in the Finder as long as I was n't in column view . Since that 's the view that I use most of the time , I decided to see if I could get @Lir 's basic solution working without the need for an external application . Here 's what I did : Open Automator and choose " Service " from the options of what to make . Set " Service receives " to " no input " and " in " to " Finder.app " . Drop a " Run AppleScript " action onto the main window . Drop the code @Lri provided into place so you end up with : Save the action as " Open via TextMate " . Under " System Preferences " - > " Keyboard " - > " Keyboard Shortcuts " - > " Services " - > " General " add my preferred shortcut to the " Open vie TextMate " item . This works in all my Finder views ( including column view ) for Mac OS X 10.7.3 and TextMate 1.5.10 .
end question
start question
What impact can a dual monitor setup have in overall performance ?
<URL> talks about memory usage for various Mac products , including the late-2008 MacBook Pro you are using . Your MacBook allocates a portion of its RAM for video . You can hit the wall with that if you 're rendering lots of video , but as far as I can tell , your GPU is discrete ( ie . not part of your CPU , so multiple monitors wo n't affect your CPU performance ) and the amount of memory allocated to video does n't change upon hooking up a second monitor ( so you wo n't decrease the quantity of RAM available to your applications ) .
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
The FTP server in Mountain Lion is still there , just not part of the GUI . You can re-enable it using the following in Terminal : To disable , do instead of . * The FTP root directory is your Users home folder .
It can access everything that 's displayed in the Address book . More about that can be found in the <URL> .
The answer is yes , Apple is rejecting the apps that let the user input iBeacon UUID . If you fetch an uuid from a server , that would probably result in the same problem . Just a quote from an article about this issue : We 've been receiving reports that Apple has recently taken its " lock down " of UUID scanning a step further . Before , you needed to specify the UUID numbers you were scanning for in your app , but you could also manually input those numbers . But now , Apple is rejecting apps that have this functionality . Awwapps is one of the documented cases of this rejection : " With the upcoming updates of our iBeacon apps Launch Here and Travel Radar we will remove the option to manually add and edit iBeacon credentials ( UUIDs , Major ID , Minor ID ) . This is not our choice . We do this to keep the apps in the App Store . We 'll do our best to come up with other options to add your iBeacons -- better options ... We will improve on this and extend support to more iBeacon vendors ... Please note that a general scanning of all iBeacons around is not possible on iOS . We rely on your input to cover all commonly used iBeacons . " Source : <URL> Why : Apple decided this for security reason . That allows developers to prevent their ibeacons of being used by others companies . Why it 's not a big deal : Most beacons constructors set up their beacons with the same UUID . So the most commons beacons may still be found , unless the UUID was changed for security reasons . For example , by default , the UUID for all the iBeacons built by Estimote is " B9407F30-F5F8-466E-AFF9-25556B57FE6D " . You then rely on the " major " and " minor " id sent by the beacon to develop your application . iBeacons are n't invisible : It 's possible on Android devices to develop an application able to see all the iBeacons in range , and to get it published on the Play Store without any trouble . On iOS , it 's still technically possible that an application may let the user input the UUID value , it just wo n't be approved by the App Store . And of course , the iBeacons still emits Bluetooth data that still physically exists in the air .
If there are n't many photos , the easiest way to do it is simply delete the photos on the phone . Unfortunately , this means selecting each photo individually as there is no ' select all ' option . To avoid individually selecting photos on the iPhone , you 'll want to use the ' delete ' option when prompted at the end of importing . Because iPhoto only deletes the photos that were imported at that time , you wo n't be able to do this with your ' normal ' iPhoto library . To get around this , simply create another ( throw away ) iPhoto library to import the photos . Select ' delete ' when prompted at the end of the import to delete the photos from the iPhone . Then you can delete this throw away library on your Mac . To create a new iPhoto library , hold down the Option ⌥ key when launching iPhoto . This will display a window asking which library you would like to open or create a new library .
Many have tried to do some benchmarking see e.g. . <URL> <URL> <URL> and looks like differences are small . One remarkable exception is FileVault 2 <URL> In my ( not very extensive ) experience with Lion I noted no difference ( but Lion is definitely more buggy and less dependable than Snow Leopard )
You can use traditional unix tools to start monitoring now . The free space statistics can be generated with the command , but you might just set your warning levels on server app and rely on alerts to notify you when space fills . I ca n't imagine needing to track storage space more than once a day to graph the growth or manage things , but your needs might be quite different . I 'd say 15 minute ( 900 seconds for iostat ) snaps of io activity would be sufficient and hourly or daily disk space logs would be overkill for most servers . You would probably decrease the monitoring interval during an investigation / performance tuning period , but day in and day out these stats usually just chew up CPU and disk space and do n't really help you manage the server . Once you decide upon how often you want to capture the data , you can get more fancy with a wrapper to start and stop the script / cut and process the log files daily , etc. . . I would say you 're going to want to instead look at the tools you want for actually analyzing and acting on the data . For one server , you could probably get away with one free instance of <URL> running and just log the data to syslog . From there you can graph / extract to spreadsheet / act on the data in a very flexible manner . Also , you might look at <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . There is an excellent write up at <URL> by Charles Edge explaining the how and why you would use those tools to tame the logs and graph things . If you had that , sending the statistics to the system log might be a very easy way to solve your problem of monitoring IO on your server .
I 'm afraid this is n't made possible by the S.M.A.R.T ( Self-Monitoring , Analysis and Reporting Technology ) system that is used to provide details of Hard Drive operation , I was hoping to find a <URL> that details the current ' park ' status , but it seems that there simply is n't one , and as this is a low level activity that is fully handled by the drive itself without any OS input I can not see a way of ever retrieving the status as the value is n't available in the first place .
You are right that the AirPort Express would work for the iPod and Macs . It wo n't , however , work with the Xbox . For that , I recommend getting a little <URL> and <URL> . Using the adapter , plug the AirPort 's audio out into one of the input ports of the switch . Plug the Xbox another input port . Plug the speakers into the switch 's output end . When the switch is set to the AirPort 's input , you can AirPlay music . When the switch is set to the Xbox 's input , you 'll hear sound from your Xbox .
Since Mac-tel with 4 slots support dual channel there is no reason this should not work . You only have to be careful to have 2 pairs where in each pair the memory modules are the same .
Check <URL> answer which points you to <URL> so you can toy with extensions and default apps .
<URL> talks about memory usage for various Mac products , including the late-2008 MacBook Pro you are using . Your MacBook allocates a portion of its RAM for video . You can hit the wall with that if you 're rendering lots of video , but as far as I can tell , your GPU is discrete ( ie . not part of your CPU , so multiple monitors wo n't affect your CPU performance ) and the amount of memory allocated to video does n't change upon hooking up a second monitor ( so you wo n't decrease the quantity of RAM available to your applications ) .
<URL> says the 13 " Retina Macbook Pro will happily run with two Thunderbolt displays . Although I have not used it first hand , I would not expect you to have performance issues running the two extra displays . The main retina display is actually drawing 4 times as many pixels as the external displays , and then scaling the image down , so a Thunderbolt display is not going to make much of a difference . As to the scrolling performance , I believe that was <URL>
Upgrade your HDD with a SSD The hard drive is a common bottleneck in computing these days . This is due to the fact , that processors have become faster at computing . The hard drive can not keep up with the CPU . Because it 's slow , the CPU is not stressed as much as it could be : <URL> . See <URL> <URL> for a comparsion of a SDD to a HDD in a Macbook Pro . Upgrade RAM If your amount of RAM is insufficient , you will see lots of page-outs . Data which should be written to the RAM will be written to the hard drive instead . Because the hard drive 's input/output operations are much slower than the RAM 's , this slows down your computer . However , if your amount of RAM is sufficient already , you will not notice a benefit from a RAM upgrade . You can check how much page-outs there are using the which is located in . There are no official recommendations I know of as to what the ratio of page-ins to page-outs should be . Generally , you need to know that the more page-outs you have , the better your system could perform if you were to upgrade your RAM . I myself aim for a ratio of no more than 5 to 1 ( 20 % , page-in vs page-out ) Activity Monitor & #x 2192 ; System Memory : Clean install If you installed the upgrade ' over the top ' this will be like a ' software factory reset ' . Mostly you 'll notice a better performance because no other software has been installed yet . Still , a clean install helps in removing remains of uninstalled software but should be an ultimate measure for tackling problems that do not want to be solved otherwise .
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
Yes Yahoo mail supports push , but failing sometimes . This is how to enable it : Go to " Settings - > Mail , Contacts , Calendars " Tap " Fetch New Data " Slide " Push " to ON ( you can select Fetch period whatever you like ) Also from " Fetch New Data " page , tap " Advanced " and see that Yahoo! mail account has Push text on the right It is easy to do , but sometimes Yahoo push just does n't work .
Absolutely ! At work we have multiple Mac Pro 's that have 1 monitor between them hot-swapped and while there 's up to 5 seconds of delay for the video to come through , it works great . You can hot-swap displays , but not video cards - if that makes sense .
You should be able to do this by choosing the monitor on which the menu bar is active . Try - System Settings - > Displays - > Arrangement and drag the little white bar to the monitor where you want the notifications to show up .
Since there are a lot of causes - let 's try to narrow down some things . If you are on Snow Leopard - you can get some more detail on the MacBook to know if there is interference or if there is potentially a hardware error . Hold the option ( or alt ) key and press the WiFi icon in the menu ( you 'll have to add it if it 's not in the menu for this testing . ) All the mac cares about is transmit rate - it 's the best number to tell how much data your mac thinks it can send reliably to the router . The higher the rate , the better . A high transmit rate is all that matters - even if the signal is weak , you still have a good connection if you have a solid transmit rate . Next is RSSI - it 's less intuitive . I tell people think of sunlight into the ocean . If you are -20 feet below the surface it 's really light . RSSI of -100 is really dark / really faint signal . In ideal environment - no noise , good antennas on both mac and router and good amplifiers reading the singals - you can still operate at -100 , but any interference or extra distance , you could stop getting a signal . Different macs have different RSSI - so if you have a close match in hardware you can be sure the problem is the mac by comparing with another . If not , it 's more guesswork . Your iPhone WiFi antenna is likely 10 times as big as the Mac 's antenna so it 's looking more like a signal issue than anything else . I hope this helps you decide what next steps to take to find the cause . You can change the router , change the physical location or change the hardware . If a repair shop is close , maybe try a diagnosis there . If not , you 'll have to take the mac to other locations with that router and try changing the things you can control . It 's not likely software since moving the mac closer to the router does n't change the software , but you might check for updates if some new firmware does better with interference or error handling . It 's a long shot so I list it last . EDIT - I am home and can report some transmit rates . On my older equipment , transmit rates of 24 to 54 are seen on an old linksys 802.11 b router . My MacBook Pro gets transmit rates of 200 to 300 pretty much all around the house . Even when I have one bar in the menu bar for airport signal strength , these transmit rates stay high as the RSSI goes to -90 ( which is getting far away from the base station )
end question
start question
How can I use Wireshark on a MacBook Air ?
You need to set the right permissions . Go into Terminal and enter the following commands : You might need to restart the computer to take effect . You also need to be admin ( a sudoer ) to perform these commands I should mention that you need to have copied from the . dmg file for Wireshark into the folder as described in the ' Read me first ' document . is a file located in the Utilities folder in the . dmg
Have you looked at <URL> ( nVidia only ) or <URL> to do just this ? Both technologies are made to leverage the GPU .
Yes , but it only works on Unibody Macs . You can also use the volume and play/pause controls .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
Go to an Apple store ( or ask a friend with tech skills ) to remove the hard drive from the MacBook . Most likely the hard drive will be unharmed and putting it into an external USB case will let you access it ( not necesarily directly via the iPad but through some other way , e.g. iCloud or USB stick or something ) . Btw , quite likely the MacBook is not beyond repair also . Ask an Apple tech .
It appears to work according to several reports : <URL> There has been some concern that Apple lists the MacBook Pro models on its web site as having an SDXC card slot , for high-capacity SD cards , and only lists the card reader on the Air as an SD card one . We tried a 64GB SanDisk SDXC card in the MacBook Air 's card reader , and the system recognised it as the appropriate size and was able to access files on it . However , if you 're looking to get a massive SD card in order to augment the smallish 128GB SSD built into the Air , note that the card slot leaves the SD card hanging halfway out on the side of the system , so it 's not appropriate for full-time use . <URL> I got my Transcend SDXC 64GB flash card , and yes , it reads and writes perfectly in my MacBook Air . <URL> it uses the <URL> which is a USB 2.0 high speed device ( 480mbps ) and supports up to 2TB SDXC cards .
I 'm going to start off backwards . 4k Display will require some sort of cable , wether DVI , Display port , or Thunderbolt that is from manufacturer to manufacturer and model to model different . According to the tech specs of 4K it is compatible with Display port 1.2 . According to : <URL> " Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , both at millions of colors " This could however simply be that Apple has only tested it on displays with that resolution and once 4k displays are out in the real world people can test it . So your MBP Retina can support 2 external displays and the use of the the clamshell display at the same time . Those external display can be attached via HDMI and Thunderbolt ( adapters ) or both via Thunderbolt adapters . But so far the tech specs limit the resolution to 2560x1600 . It could also be that the resolution output could be enhanced with a software update ( firmware update ) at a later time . Archived Specifications page : <URL> <URL> .
Not exactly but you can use the computer 's ethernet internet connection via Wifi to the iPhone . In that case just go to System Preferences > Sharing , then Select Internet Sharing Select Ethernet in the field Share your connection from Flag Wi-Fi in the field To computers using Go to Wi-Fi Options ... and select a network SSID and a security password Click OK Flag Internet sharing If you are using a pc with windows you can follow the instructions reported <URL> . Basically : Go to Network Connections in your Control Panel by going to Start > Control Panel > Network and Internet > Network and Sharing Center and then click Change adapter settings on the menu on the left . Right-click your Internet connection that you want to share ( e.g. , Local Area Connection ) and click Properties . Click the Sharing tab . Check the " Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's Internet connection " option .
To use this ( or any ) script in a program like Apple Mail , you could create a service in Automator . Launch the Automator program . When it says Choose a type for your document , select Service and click Choose In the top dialog , select Service receives no input in Mail.app ( or , the name of your program , or any application if that 's what you want ) . You will insert one action : From the Utilities group , double-click Run AppleScript . Select the text that says and paste in the script you want to run . In your case , the script you want to paste is Once you have done that , go to the File menu and click Save . Give the service a name you will remember , like " Add Recipients to Group " . Then when you are in Mail , you can select a message or messages and go to the Mail menu in the menu bar , then the Services menu in the Mail menu , and select the service Add Recipients to Group .
Yes . I use it on Mountain Lion . Details here : <URL> . It 's not clear to me how Contacts.app is merging Google/iCloud duplicates that arise if you use iCloud , or handling editing of those duplicates . There 's no support for Google Group/Tag relationships or Mac Group/Tag relationships . Nobody has gotten it working on Snow Leopard , though if you want to try that ( do publish ) Hsiaoi 's technique is a good start ( <URL> ) . I suspect SSL is a problem . I believe it also works on Lion but I 've not tested .
It 's not a question of licensing , it 's that the architecture of the Mac &amp; an iDevice are totally different . The Mac runs on an Intel processor , OS X is based on a unix kernel . iDevices run on an ARM processor , iOS is [ actually idk , but proprietary ] ( All iDevices run on the same ' family ' of processors , so that is why if you purchase an iApp , you can use it on any iDevice you own . ) Apps for one simply can not run on the other . Some apps are made in 2 or more versions , for Mac , iPhone , iPad , even Windows or Android etc , each available from their respective Store . The App Store ' app ' on the Mac is only for Mac Apps . iApps can be purchased either from the App Store on the iDevice , or through iTunes on a Mac/PC . The licensing model for Apple is that the Apple ID used to purchase an app from the App Store is allowed to use it on any device they own using that Apple ID [ 1 ] [ so long as it will physically run , as explained above ] This makes moving from machine to machine easy , but not from ID to ID . It 's pretty much the opposite of the Microsoft model , where an app , or even the OS itself is tied to one machine , using a serial number etc. . [ 1 ] with some exceptions which you can see noted in the Purchases tab in the App Store app . An example ... Interestingly , the only apps I have that are not shareable are all Freeware anyway , so I could simply re - " purchase " if I needed them on another machine . <URL> extends that licensing model to other members of your family , so all can access the same songs , albums , movies , TV shows , books , and apps on both Mac and iDevices , if they wish , from a single ' purchase ' .
I am not aware of any manual that contains this information but here is a breakdown , since this is one of the big reasons I got a MacBook originally . The mini display port allows you to add an additional monitor to your MacBook . Support for this is built into the OS directly so you simply connect your external monitor using the correct MD/VGA or MD/HDMI or MD/DVI connector if the monitor does not have a display port and then you can configure how the displays work . This is done under the option in . From the screen shot below you can see I am running a second monitor on my MacBook Pro at the moment and I have set the second monitor to be to the left of the main one by simply dragging it 's rectangle to where I want it . You can also move the menu to a different screen by grabbing the white strip on the primary screen and dragging it to another screen you want it on . Each display can have it 's own separate resolution and even separate backgrounds . The relevant preference panes will automatically show a dialogue on each screen if it supports multiple displays , for example the will show on both screens . You can also choose whether you want to mirror the display or use it as a second screen . In mirror mode it simply mirrors everything on your main display .
rEFIt is the best way to allow dual-booting on a Mac . I use it to boot Ubuntu from a partition on my external drive , and it works perfectly . Be sure to back up your hard drive before proceeding . Install rEFIt and make sure it is working ( you should get a boot chooser on startup ) Use Bootcamp or Disk Utility to create a partition at the end of the disc . Do n't worry about what format , just make it the size you want for Ubuntu and your swap partition . If you you are using OS X Lion which comes with Bootcamp 4.0 you will need to use the Disk Utility . Boot Camp 4.0 will only allow you to resize if you provide a Windows 7 installation disk . Boot the Ubuntu desktop CD , and select " Try Ubuntu . Start the partition editor ( gparted ) under System - > Adminstration . Use gparted to delete the partition you just made in OS X . It should be the last partition on the disc and follows after the HFS + partition ( OS X ) . Deleting it will leave an area called unallocated . This is free space , and exactly what you want . Use gparted to manually partition the space on your drive for Ubuntu . First create a SWAP area of about 1GB . Then the rest of the unallocated area format as EXT4 . Apply changes and take note the label of the EXT4 partition such as / dev/sda3 . Start the Ubuntu Installer from the desktop icon . When prompted , choose to manually partition . Select the EXT4 partition and click change . Select to use the space as EXT4 and root ( / ) as the mount point . You will also want to check the box to format the partition . Reboot when done with the install , and in the rEFIt menu , choose the partition tool . It will attempt to sync the partition tables on your disk . Then SHUTDOWN the computer ( not reboot ) , and start it again . You should be able to boot to Ubuntu now . If it seems to freeze on the tux logo , completely shutdown again and try one more time . This is a summary of a process described by the detailed how-to process here : <URL>
<URL> works now : Just enter Username and password and leave the other settings default : In chat you can activate OTR at the top right corner
You actually can not . Let me explain why : The bluetooth hardware of Macbook and iMac are designed to be " sender " rather than " receiver " ... The software/driver is designed without considering using the computers as bluetooth receivers . If you must connect two computers in an area where wifi channels are all taken , you can try using 5G wifi connection rather than the 2.4 G - and if that still does n't work , you are out of luck . Note : wireless audio receivers usually are designed with special hardware component to eliminate lags - and even so there are so significant lags on all devices . So do not expect your computers will sync - in fact , there should be half or one second lag even in an ideal condition . Hope this help !
No , not directly . The Mac Pro uses full-sized desktop DIMM modules , whereas the Macbook pro uses laptop-sized SO-DIMM modules . These can not be directly swapped without a passive adapter , which I honestly would n't think makes much sense to bother with given how <URL> .
I 've used both . Air Display is better at updating the iPad display quickly and smoothly . Air Display also has some additional features , like being able to use the touchscreen as a mouse , and it can be used with both Windows and Mac , so I 'd say it is a better deal . Maxivista is a little easier to get set up on Windows . It just worked . I had to futz around a bit to get Air Display to work , but it was n't too hard ( just have to remember to Run as Administrator ) . For more details on what I found when I compared them , see <URL> .
If you have a USB Flash Drive of 8 GB of size , you can make a Lion Installer and use it to securely erase the Drive . <URL> You can also make a USB Bootable Recovery Disk as explained here by Apple : <URL> Once you have done either you can hold down the key while restarting your computer and booting from it . When it loads up , it will give you a few different options , you will need to use the Disk Utility part and highlight your HD and choose the Erase Tab . Under the erase settings will be a security option when you can write the disk to 0 once or even multiple times . There is a guide on it here : <URL> See the part where it says How to Zero erase and install OS X I hope that helps you out . Updated The guy at the bottom of this post : <URL> points out a work around to securely erase the SSD drive in the MacBook Air through encryption . This is what he says : cmace127 I found a workaround . Restart the computer and hold option to enter the setup screen . Go into disk utility and select the drive . Erase the drive using " Mac OS Extended ( Case-sensitive , Journaled , Encrypted ) . Make a password for the encryption , it does n't matter what it is because you wo n't need it . Hit " Erase " . Now select the volume and the " Erase Free Space " and " Security Options " buttons should no longer be grayed out . Click and select your level of security and off you go . I presume " Erase Free Space " and " Security Options " should do the same thing because you just erased the drive so all space is considered free . This worked for me so let me know if it helps . Let me know if that 's works , this should securely erase the drive since it will then be encrypted . Also , in the future with lion be sure to use File Vault 2 so that you do n't have to worry about this again .
You need to set the right permissions . Go into Terminal and enter the following commands : You might need to restart the computer to take effect . You also need to be admin ( a sudoer ) to perform these commands I should mention that you need to have copied from the . dmg file for Wireshark into the folder as described in the ' Read me first ' document . is a file located in the Utilities folder in the . dmg
No , as the first iMac which allows this is the 27-inch Late 2009 iMac , as explained <URL> . There are , though , some Applications which may achieve something similar , requiring both computers to be connected to the same LAN/WiFi/VPN , and sending all the information , the one to be displayed on the second computer working as a display , through it . Such as <URL> . You can find some more <URL> .
end question
start question
Anyone know a super easy . mp3 cutter ?
You should try QuickTime : Open the file in QuickTime ⌘ T ( or the last item of the Edit menu , I do n't know how it 's called in English ) Frame the part you want with the yellow control Click the yellow button Save and you 're done ! Edit : In order to fade out , <URL> seems to be the solution ( but I did n't try it myself ) .
SuperDuper can do this . I 've done it with a MacBook before . As far as SuperDuper is concerned , it 's just two drives .
TimeMachine might be the easiest way to back things up on a regular basis . You 'll need any old external drive and a few clicks of the mouse . If you have more specific needs , feel free to edit your question to refine for what you are looking .
Be sure you are using an iPad charger . If you are using a standard USB charger or an iPhone/iPod charger then it will take a very long time to charge .
In terms of hardware , according to <URL> , Mac Minis ( and most other Macs ) since early 2006 come with a 3.5-mm analog/optical combo jack and models since mid 2010 also come with an HDMI port , both of which should support multichannel audio if your source material provides it . You can find the specs for your own Mac by clicking the " This Mac " item in the left-hand pane . Specs for the current ( Mid 2011 ) <URL> say : HDMI port supports multichannel audio output and for most of the other models , as an alternative to the 3.5-mm analog/optical combo jack , this <URL> says that you can also use a mini Display port to HDMI adapter to receive multichannel audio and video ( though I 'm not sure what software support for this would be like ) : These computers supply multichannel audio ( up to 8 channels ) and video signals over Mini DisplayPort : MacBook ( Mid 2010 ) and later MacBook Air ( Late 2010 ) and later MacBook Pro ( Mid 2010 ) and later Mac mini ( Mid 2010 ) and later iMac ( Late 2009 ) and later Mac Pro ( Mid 2010 ) To connect your television or other HDMI devices to your Mac , use select third-party Mini DisplayPort to HDMI adapters that conform to the VESA v1 .1 a DisplayPort Interoperability Guidelines Depending on the software player , it should be just a question of connecting the HDMI/optical output to your recevier and getting multichannel output . I use <URL> and get 5.1 surround sound output ( AC3 or DTS ) over HDMI , and I believe the latest " Eden " release supports 7.1 . It also does blu-ray ( rips only , I assume ) , DVD and has an excellent plug-in system which <URL> . Alternatively , <URL> is an another alternative and will do much the same thing . Once you get your media set up , both will work pretty much out-of-the-box . As for a TV tuner , <URL> looks very good .
Mac OS X is compatible with the aff/dic open format dictionaries . All you need to do is to get one dictionary , and place it inside ~ / Library/Spelling ( you may have to create the directory ) . Get the <URL> from OpenOffice ( or <URL> ) Extract the file using <URL> or rename the extension to . zip and extract it Move the files with the . aff and . dicc extensions ( ro_RO . aff and ro_RO . dic for Romanian ) in ~ / Library/Spelling . Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Text > Spelling and choose the language of your choice ... boom ! you have system-wide spell checking :)
Sounds like Rogue Ameoba 's <URL> should do what you want : With Fission 's streamlined audio editing , you can quickly copy , paste and trim audio , as well as split files . Fission also works with compressed MP3 and AAC formats to edit without the quality loss caused by other editors . Get perfect quality audio when editing natively in the MP3 , AAC , Apple Lossless , AIFF and WAV formats .
You can use wget like this : - r to recursively download all files below the level of the URL specified - nd to not create a hierarchy of directories in your download location ( not necessary ) - A to specify the files you want to download ( all files ending in . mp3 in your case ) You can obtain wget for OSX via homebrew or macports .
All the photos that are taken in a burst sequence share a " BurstUUID " in their EXIF data . This is how applications know they are related . For example I just took a burst of images , installed <URL> and ran against the directory with the burst images . This is the output . For another application on Windows ( or any other platform ) to recognise and show these images as a group it will need to be rewritten to recognise this new EXIF tag .
The short answer : notch and peak filters . You can use the master buss EQ to notch out or boost frequency ranges that correspond , primarily , to the instrument or voice you 're trying to remove or isolate . Notches are for removing and peaks are for boosting . It 's less than perfect in GarageBand because the built-in EQ facilities are somewhat simplistic , but you can make a reasonable go of it if you 're patient . Let 's talk about removing something . Boosting something is the same approach , you just turn the gain up on the notch instead of down . First , you 'll need to identify approximately what range of frequencies you want to cut . I 'll usually consult something like the <URL> . It shows you , for any instrument , what the dominant frequency range it covers . You 're mostly concerned about notching out the fundamentals of the instrument since they tend to the be the strongest component of the instrument 's sound . At the bottom of the chart is the frequency plotted in 1/3 octave bands . If we wanted to , for example , remove an oboe from our track , we 're looking at removing the fundamentals from approximately 200 Hz up to 1.5 kHz . <URL> That 's a pretty broad range . If we removed that much content we 'd be taking lots of other instruments with it . But we can use this as a starting point for our filter . Head in to GarageBand and call up the master EQ strip by pressing the Smart Controls button in the upper right had corner : <URL> Select EQ and Master from the toolbar over the smart controls : <URL> Now add a notch filter ( there are four available on the EQ strip , I just picked the one to the left because we 're doing lower frequency content removal ) . Center the notch at 650 Hz ( ) , which is the midpoint of the oboe 's range . You can either drag the dot left and right until it says 650 Hz in the lower righthand corner , or you can click on the value and just enter it directly : <URL> And then set the gain as low as it 'll go by dragging the dot downwards or entering -24 dB for the gain the lower righthand corner directly : <URL> The the width of the notch , called the Q , is at its maximum value -- the filer is removing the most content at 650 Hz , but it 's also removing a lot of content above above and below 650 Hz . We want to narrow it so it 's covering really just the 200 Hz - 1500 Hz range . It wo n't be perfect because it 's only a second order filter , but it should be good enough . You can click on the Q value in the lower righthand corner of the EQ strip to enter a value . 2 is about right : <URL> With this starting point for your notch filter , solo your track and play it . Now , as the track plays , adjust the mid-point of the notch up and down until the oboe is at its quietest . If there 's a portion of the track where the oboe is the lone instrument , loop that and do your manual adjustments there , otherwise feel it out . Once it 's as quiet as you think you can make it , play with the Q until it 's more or less still that quiet , but the Q is as high as possible . This gives you the narrowest possible notch -- the least amount of information you can remove to cut the instrument out of the overall sound . Repeat , adding additional notch filters , until you 've removed everything you want removed . And , as I said earlier , to boost instead of remove , just reverse the gain . The process is , otherwise , the exact same : <URL> And you can combine cuts and boosts to truly isolate just a small part of the frequency spectrum in a signal to study it . Though , you may find that without harmonic content , the instrument is a little hard to decipher . It depends on how strong or weak the fundamental of the instrument is in relation to the harmonic overtones it produces . Some good old trial and error , using your ears as your guide , is the best teacher here .
This only hits your second requirement but , if you ask me , it 's the more important of the two by a long shot : <URL> . It can play just about anything you throw at it . It has support for play lists ( both building and saving them ) but it does not do any organization of your media . It is strictly a player .
I found <URL> for wired memory : Wired memory is used by the OS and is pretty much untouchable . Another application ca n't " borrow " wired memory If you want to know more about how applications and frameworks are using memory on your system , try . You must run it as root ; is one way to accomplish that . When you run it , it will perform analysis for several seconds before showing output . Here is a short example of the output : See the allmemory man page ( with the command ) for more details ; here 's an explanation of some of the columns : PrivateRes : the number of pages resident in physical memory , not shared with other processes Copied/Dirty : the number of resident pages that were copied or are dirty ( non-exclusive ) Swapped : the number of pages that were in memory but have been swapped to disk . Shared : the number of shared pages
I had to laugh - but there 's a serious question here , for sure . Does a nickname in your Contacts show to anyone else ? Empirically , I would say no - neither a nickname you give yourself nor any other contact will be transmitted . My partner &amp; I have each other listed in Contacts with the nickname " ICE " [ In Case of Emergency ] yet it does n't show up in any messages or emails we send to each other . Similarly , my own nickname of Tetsujin is not seen by others in any communication I send . I 'm pretty sure you 're safe asking Siri to call you Sugar Daddy ... unless she does it in public , or if you ever intend to pass your vCard to someone , because it certainly will be in the exported card ;)
<URL> Put something -- a contact , a photo , a video , a file -- on the Mover table , connect two iOS or Mac OS X thingies to the same Wi-Fi network and slide away . It 's that simple , really . ( Yep , you can also use Bluetooth between iPhones , iPod touches and iPads , if you 're on the go ! ) ∞ labs , the developer of Mover , shut down a while ago and the app is no longer available .
It 's not quite right , but this can be installed with <URL> and is off by a mere few pixels . <URL>
This might not be exactly what your looking for but <URL> has several articles on the current state ( or lack there of ) video cards for the Mac Pro . Take a look at <URL> and <URL> I recently had to replace a second dying NVidia 8800 GT in my Mac Pro ( early 2008 ) but decided to stick with an Apple card . Most of the non-Apple branded cards will not work until the machine is past the boot volume selection screen ( if you need it ) and I seem to find myself switching boot volumes frequently .
The phone receives the current time in UTC from the carrier ( or from NTP server ) and applies current timezone adjustment based on your settings . I assume that the timezone data in your phone is probably outdated and reflects the old rules of applying DST , that 's why you have 1 hour difference .
Use ps with a lower case L to directly view current nice values :
I do n't know of anything automatic - but you can browse the iTunes store here : <URL> This is the US store - if you browse to your app , and then replace the ' us ' part of the URL with the country code for the store you want to check ( e.g. ' fr ' for france , ' ie ' for Ireland , etc ) - you 'll either get brought to the entry for the App in that country , or get an error message that the app is not available . I do n't think you 'll find a huge number of apps that are n't available . If you use Apple TV , do consider that the films/TV choices in other stores may be much more limited . You might want to consider keeping two accounts rather than changing . It can make management a little more inconvenient , but you 'll have a bigger choice of things to buy/rent .
No , this is n't possible to do through official channels . The officially unlocked phones are unlocked from the manufacturer ; this is n't possible to do after the phone has been provisioned ( otherwise the iPhone hacking community would be all over this avenue rather than going after security holes in the baseband to achieve the same effect ) . Because if their agreement with AT&amp;T , Apple does not sell these units in the US , and every distributor outside of the US has to agree not to sell the units to US customers .
end question
start question
Why do PDF forms/annotations filled in using Preview.app appear blank to Windows/Adobe users ?
NB this seems to be fixed in the most recent versions of OS X , so workaround perhaps no longer required ... Workaround Probably the simplest / safest option is to ' flatten ' the PDF before sending it , by printing it to a new PDF . After completing your form in Preview , go to the Print menu ( ) and use the PDF drop-down in the bottom-left , selecting to to generate a new , ' flattened ' PDF . Flattened simply means that all annotations ( including data in the form ) become indistinguishable from the actual content of the PDF , as if they were part of it all along . This means you ca n't edit them anymore ( in the new , printed PDF ) , which can be desirable , but also means they 'll show up properly in Adobe . The Problem The actual cause of the problem is <URL> from Adobe , and that blog post also includes a script for Acrobat users to recover the data from a form filled in using Preview.app ( it turns out Preview puts the data in the form , but does n't specify how it should ' appear ' , so Acrobat shows it as blank/invisible ) . I 'll leave it up to the reader to decide whether this is a bug in Adobe 's software ( for not showing form data without a specified " appearance " ) or a bug in Apple 's software ( for not including the " appearance " information ) . If you 've been affected by this bug , please consider notifying one/both of these companies of the issue : Apple 's <URL> or <URL> sites . Adobe 's <URL> or <URL> sites .
If your computer is locked , the screensaver settings for the root user account is used instead of your own . You can change those settings according to the answer to this question : <URL>
I think you can do it if you combine it with Apple Script . There is no print action for emails . But you can call a applescript . You could even combine it with ( mail ) rules . So when for example you see ' invoice ' in the header or body , you start a applescript that automatically prints and saves it to a folder . Im not really into applescript , but have a look here : <URL>
First off , make sure you 've run AAM to update all components to latest : What happens when you set your displays to mirror ( command-F1 ) , launch Bridge , then revert back to extended ?
I have the exact same problem . While you should anonymize yourself in the prefs , I do n't fully trust that method , so : Make a copy of the annotated PDF file Drag and drop to open in a text editor like TextWrangler , or hex editor like HexEdit ( Do n't worry about any binary-looking weird characters ) Search for your name and replace with the exact same number of Xs or I usually throw in a space among the Xs so it looks like a different name . Save the file in place Open in Preview and mouse over the annotations to see the anonymized version
If you want your music to be uploaded to iCloud , you must sign up for iTunes Match . Make sure you 're running the latest version of OS X and iOS . ( El Capitan - iOS 9 are the stable releases right now , although you can get the public beta of macOS Sierra and iOS 10 ) . Then make sure the Apple ID you 've entered in the Music App on iOS is the exact one on the Mac 's iTunes . If it did n't work , make sure both devices have been connected to the internet since setting the Apple ID . By the way , " Songs of Innocence " is an album by Irish rock band U2 , which was a ' gift ' from Apple to you . If you want it removed , see <URL> Of course , connecting your iOS device to your Mac can help you sync them . <URL> webpage has got a table which lets you know how to do deal with some of these similar problems .
Your initial guess that it 's Google Contacts is right - if you 've set it up to sync with Google Contacts , it 'll pull down the same contact photos as you have in Google Contacts , and it works both ways ( assign a photo on iPhone , syncs back up to Google Contacts ) . If you 've got a contact photo set in Google + or the like , it 'll pull that photo automatically , so that 's the photo which 'll appear to others .
Yet the the dock is designed to just provide charging power and to hold the device , there is no line out on the dock . This is incorrect . The description for this device <URL> ( sorry , I could n't find any information on it that was n't on a for-sale site ) has this feature listed : Built-in , 0.125-inch stereo line-out audio jack lets you attach an audio cable directly to your stereo , or run the included cassette adapter into your stereo 's tape cassette player Apparently the device does have an line out on it some place . And this is why your headphone and volume controls are disabled when you dock your phone in it .
It does work in Lion , the way you tried it . In Snow-Leopard you have to select the text itself to change the font ( size ) by first clicking/selecting the text-field to get the selection rectangle ( for re-sizing or moving - as you described ) and then click a second time on your text to select all the characters . Now your text should be selected ( visible by the highlighting ) and you will be able to change the font-size in the Text Properties field . Edit 2012-01-04 : I could reproduce the problem described and also found a simple solution . If you open your pdf and re-arrange pages or rotate them and then try to change the formating of existing text fields it ( sometimes ) fails . The solution/fix is to click the window ( menu - ) bar of the " Fonts " window , then click on your text field again and finally chose the new font variant → and it will be applied :D
Burn it with Disk Utility by adding ISO file to left pane , then choose it and press Burn on a toolbar . And that is it .
To force the usage of the discrete graphics card in your macbook you can uncheck the automatic graphics switching checkbox in the system preferences / energy saver panel As the message states , this does drain the battery faster . However , your mac should not behave as you describe , I suggest taking it to a service desk so apple can take a look at it , or call apple to ask why it is so choppy .
Not ideal but : Go into Preferences : Signatures , create a new Signature , erase the name and e-mail address , and hit Enter once to create a blank line . Then check the " Place signature above quoted text " box . Note : once a signature has been saved with actual text , Mail wo n't let you blank it out , so make sure you do this with a new sig , rather than editing an old one .
There can be several reasons for this . Probably the most common is that installer writers may not consider the possibility that their package might be installed on something other than the startup volume ( i.e. with NetInstall , you 're booted from a network volume but installing onto the local HD ) . The Installer application knows how to put the package 's install files where they need to go , but if there are any associated scripts and such in the package , they may not cope with running from one volume and installing onto another . Another ( closely related ) problem is that the package may have scripts that depend on resources that do n't exist in a NetInstall environment . NetInstall runs in a pretty stripped-down version of OS X -- it includes everything most package scripts would need , but if they need something unexpected ( like Finder , for example ) , they will fail and possibly cause the install to fail .
I would not recommend it since this may cause issues . The installation process of OS X is specific to the underlying hardware . So if you just clone the iMac HDD and use it in a MacBook Pro , it 's possible that you may encounter issues . It wo n't hurt to try it out , so do try . But when you try it : Make sure that you press Cmd + V when you hear the startup chime on the MacBook Pro and hold it until you see a Verbose Boot initiated ( with many Unix related messages coming up on the text screen and scrolling up ) . You can read through the messages to see if any serious looking errors appear before the login window comes up . Also note how long the startup process takes and whether it seems slower than it should be . After you 're logged in , you can also check for errors during startup . For a good experience , I would instead recommend that you do a fresh install on the new HDD ( with the HDD installed on the MacBook Pro ) and then use Migration Assistant to copy applications and files over .
iOS Notes syncing works through the IMAP protocol , which in iCloud is integrated into the email service . Although Apple could technically choose to allow for notes syncing without explicitly requiring an email address , they have chosen to make it a part of the email , almost like Notes is its own email folder . You should also be able to sync your Notes using your Gmail account since it is also based on the IMAP protocol :
There sure is . When you have a song selected , you can press &#8984; + return and it will allow you to quickly edit the song title .
Turns out the real problem is when I sync with Foobar . Looks like I 'm stuck with iTunes .
Yes , as long as you have the iCloud backup enabled your documents will be backed up . I have first hand experience . After exchanging a defective iPad the new one , after entering my iCloud account information , had all my books ( both epub and pdfs , I do n't buy books from the iTunes store because of DRM ) , links , gamecenter data , and application data . What did n't synchronise was music and videos .
Palm did this with the Pre : the device , like all devices , told iTunes it was an iPod and allowed only the syncing of non-DRM content over the USB connection . As to how the iPhone sorts out what it is to tell iTunes could either be hard-coded or come from a file somewhere in the OS . Either way , this forum is really not the place the find the answer to that question ( nor do I think SO is either ) . You probably should head over to one of the myriad iPhone jailbreak forum . Searching " iPhone jailbreak forum " in Google brings up a whole host of them .
With iOS 9 AirPrint now has the option to print Black &amp; White . This solve my problem , there is n't yet an app to convert a PDF to a Black &amp; White/Greyscale PDF but now I can print Black &amp; White and I do n't need to edit the PDF before the print . Screenshot : <URL>
end question
start question
Active Directory Network Account does not have login keychain ?
Installed my copy of Mountain Lion on top of Lion , seems like everything works now . No issues , thanks anyway ! Appreciate it :)
Note the original question asked why Apple shipped an old version of bash and then asked how to upgrade . This is an answer to the original . If the question is just the latter then it is a duplicate You would have to ask Apple as to why . However I would note that bash is now licensed under GPLv3 and 3.2.57 is the last version released under GPL2 . As bash is in / bin you should not replace it directly as this can be updated or modified by Apple at any time and now with SIP it is also more difficult to change . Also scripts elsewhere might depend one this version You can however add bash from <URL> or from a package manager like Macports or Homebrew . You can then change the Terminal.app profile to start this shell rather than bash Macports is Homebrew is As of 14/6/16 - the stable version of bash is 4.3.42 and updates usually come rapidly through both port systems . Or you could change your shell to another that Apple supplies e.g. zsh which is more powerful than bash ( version up to date of release of El Capitan ) or ksh which is upto date . ( or tcsh which is a C shell but also reasonably up to date )
It depends on the service order set in System Preferences - > Network . The first one that has a route to the requested endpoint will be used . Click on the wheel icon at the bottom left and choose . Then drag the items into the required order . This is the order on m machine which I do not think I have altered .
You can disable sleeping in the preference pane of . Alternatively , you can use a free app called <URL> to easily prevent your Mac from sleeping just with a click of the mouse . Both work exactly the same , but Caffeine makes it easier to dynamically switch between the two settings .
Macs do not have Activation Lock . The only Find My iPhone lock that is present on OS X is the force lock from selecting the device in the Find My iPhone device list and clicking Lock . Simply reinstalling OS X ca n't lock a Mac unlike iOS Activation Lock . Note that Find My Mac will register the serial number ( or other hardware identifier ) for the purposes of recording a single Mac and that reinstalling OS X will not remove this identifier from Apple 's servers and may show a " Find My Mac is already in use " message if you attempt to set it up in the future .
F3 , like the previous poster said , is a Windows convention . Cmd + F is how all applications within OS X do a " Find " . However , you can re-map your Windows favorites to OS X with no problem . If you want to make F3 = " Find Next " in Google Chrome , you can set that up yourself . Go to [ System Preferences ] -- > [ Keyboard ] -- > [ Shortcuts ] <URL> Select App Shortcuts and then click the " plus sign " to add a new one . You will get a dialog box like the one below <URL> Select your Application that you want to create the shortcut for , in this case Google Chrome . Now , here is the most important part : Type the name of the menu command exactly as you see it . Go to the menu bar at the top of the screen and select the command from one of the menu drop downs . In this case , it 's " Find Next " <URL> Enter that into your new Shortcut and assign the key you want , in this case F3 . It should look like this : <URL> Click " Add " and you should see it show up as an new Shortcut . Head over to Chrome and you will see that " Find Next " is now mapped to F3
Easily spoken , you could say ispw files are not complete . They 're missing that so-called signature . It 's like a contract ; it has no value without the signature . Every time you install new firmware on the iPhone , iTunes calls to the Apple servers and ask for that approval signature . For numerous reasons , Apple does n't give out those signatures for older firmware versions . There 's not much you can do . The only thing you can do is downgrading to 8.4.1 and hope one day somebody releases the jailbreak for it . But for now , you 're stucked .
SOLVED ! Solution : The network i was trying to connect to , was set not to distribute it 's ID , so i typed it in or saved it somehow at some point . The fatal error is , the SECURITY TYPE does not match with the wireless router so every time , the computer ask again for the correct type/key combination resulting in , a disconnection from the wireless network :) To fix it , go to Preferences > Network > Advanced and press the plus sign and ADD THE ENTRY MANUAL !!!!!!! and you will be fine . Hope it helps , thank you all !
No - the iCloud section of the Settings app only allows for one account on iOS 5 . You can however add as many iCloud accounts to the Mail , Contacts , Calendars as you have time to set up . You will see that you can enable the majority of the services on each subsequent non-main iCloud account . The following items work only on the main account : Backup Documents &amp; Data Photo Stream The following item is exclusive - any one ( but only one ) account can have : Find My iPhone For example , I use one iCloud account as my primary personal account and have a second account for a consulting business . Here is what that non-main account looks like when set up .
It 's hard to tell with this new product , that is really a normal battery charger . Rechargeable batteries should charge all the way to 100 % especially when they are new . If you 're not getting a full charge , try depleting them all and fully charge them , see if that works . Otherwise , batteries may be defective or it could be a mouse/software misinterpretation .
just a guess : As in the App Store app a session is 15min , I would asume that a session in Find My Friends is also 15 min . If you configured your phone to be locked ( need to enter a pin after swipe to unlock ) , then you do n't need to enter a password at all in find my friends [ read somewhere , never tested myself ] .
Indexing of an AFP-network drive is n't a problem : To enable spotlight indexing on a network drive open and enter : To disable the indexing of a connected network drive : To check the status of indexing on a connected network drive : <URL> In the comments there , a Synology NAS has been mentioned explicitly : MacHouis • a year ago Thanks a lot , it works very fine :) :) :) . I had to mount the volume ( a Synology Ethernet server ) in afp to start the Spotlight Indexing ... thanks thanks thanks ... This also works for older Mac OS Xs ( in the example below it 's Lion ) . Make sure that you 've switched to ' Shared ' in the search window :
If you are using the Finder then try with another file manager or try run a ls in the terminal . Let us know if you are experiencing the same kind of delays using the command line . Some good alternative file manager are <URL> and <URL> . Try both .
It 's not provided by the system ( nor the XCode installation ) . But you can get it with <URL> ( ) <URL> ( )
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
Apparently both Keychain 's files are in the same place in Both OS versions <URL> <URL> . . Copying all the folder 's content from one to another should do the trick .
Yes , it has two physical buttons on the edge lacking the battery tray . The two rubber feet on the bottom-front of the trackpad press against internal switches . For these to activate , you have to use it on a hard surface . The software tap-to-click that senses your finger pad deforming as it taps the immovable glass surface also will trigger a tap independently from the physical buttons .
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
You can change your location in the apple button in the menubar , that way you wo n't have to open the system preferences , there are apps to change system preferences according to wi-fi connection : <URL>
To access any folder in Finder , press Cmd + Shift + G and enter the directory you want to access .
end question
start question
Can I use both Mac mini display ports at the same time and which adapters do I need ?
You can indeed use both the HDMI and Thunderbolt ports to drive two separate monitors with a Mac Mini . Any Mac with a Thunderbolt port can use any mini Displayport display , cable or adapter , so you 're correct that the mDP to DVI adapter is what you need1 . If you have a display that requires <URL> ( typically only monitors with resolutions higher than 1920x1200 ) , you 'll need an active mDP to dual-link DVI adapter . For the HDMI port , HDMI to DVI adapters are readily available ( HDMI is essentially a superset of DVI with a different connector ) . Note that the HDMI port is limited to monitors with 1920x1200 or lower resolution . 1 Note that the reverse is not true - Thunderbolt monitors ca n't be used with mDP equipped Macs .
The simple answer is no - in general the one camera only sends data to one app . The more complicated answer is that the API ( application programming interface ) that Apple publishes enforces this restriction . If a developer hooks into the hardware directly or there is a bug in the API , it is possible to share that stream . So for most Apps made by someone other than Apple , once the iSight is in use by one application , it is unavailable to other applications until the application releases the use of it or the application closes . User <URL> rightly points out that this is not the case for Facetime and Photobooth , where Apple is either using an undocumented or private API or accessing the hardware directly so that both apps can share the camera feed .
As answered in the comment by bispymusic , this was resolved by using a DVI - > HDMI adaptor or cable . The Mac mini was able to output a whole new set of resolutions , and jumped straight to 1080p as the most suitable . Thanks .
The <URL> is really useful for these sorts of things .
No , such an adapter does not exist and is unnecessary . Since <URL> is backwards compatible with Mini Display port . If you look at accessory options for the <URL> , you will see only the following display output adapters available : Apple Mini DisplayPort to DVI Adapter Apple Mini DisplayPort to Dual-Link DVI Adapter Apple Mini DisplayPort to VGA Adapter So Mini DisplayPort is the correct adapter type . However , there are two DVI adapters to choose from . It depends on what display your are using and if it needs a single link or dual link DVI connection . Generally speaking computer displays with a native resolution less than or equal to 1920 x 1200 are <URL> , while displays larger than 1920 X 1200 are <URL> . Check your monitor 's specification and requirements to be sure . If you have the right resolution settings and adapter and the flicker persists I would trouble shoot and rule out each piece of hardware to figure out where the problem lies . In the display With the adapter / cabling With the MacBook Pro
It 's not a question of licensing , it 's that the architecture of the Mac &amp; an iDevice are totally different . The Mac runs on an Intel processor , OS X is based on a unix kernel . iDevices run on an ARM processor , iOS is [ actually idk , but proprietary ] ( All iDevices run on the same ' family ' of processors , so that is why if you purchase an iApp , you can use it on any iDevice you own . ) Apps for one simply can not run on the other . Some apps are made in 2 or more versions , for Mac , iPhone , iPad , even Windows or Android etc , each available from their respective Store . The App Store ' app ' on the Mac is only for Mac Apps . iApps can be purchased either from the App Store on the iDevice , or through iTunes on a Mac/PC . The licensing model for Apple is that the Apple ID used to purchase an app from the App Store is allowed to use it on any device they own using that Apple ID [ 1 ] [ so long as it will physically run , as explained above ] This makes moving from machine to machine easy , but not from ID to ID . It 's pretty much the opposite of the Microsoft model , where an app , or even the OS itself is tied to one machine , using a serial number etc. . [ 1 ] with some exceptions which you can see noted in the Purchases tab in the App Store app . An example ... Interestingly , the only apps I have that are not shareable are all Freeware anyway , so I could simply re - " purchase " if I needed them on another machine . <URL> extends that licensing model to other members of your family , so all can access the same songs , albums , movies , TV shows , books , and apps on both Mac and iDevices , if they wish , from a single ' purchase ' .
Only if it does n't have a built in optical drive . I think the limitation is built into the drive not the OS and as far as my searches have discovered can only be subverted by hardware hacks of the drive . It 's a bummer as it is is a neat little drive and Apple built-in slot loading drives are not that reliable ( 4 out of 5 of mine have failed over nearly a decade . ) On the other hand there are a lot of cheap and ugly 3rd party alternatives which work fine .
I assume you 're talking about on your Mac since you do n't specify . Yes you can do this but in all likelihood , you wo n't see much other than your internet connection probably wo n't work . Most ISPs ( Internet Service Providers ) are not yet ready to handle IPv6 traffic and many wo n't be right up to <URL> . Many wo n't be ready beyond then either . But it wo n't do any harm to try it out if that 's what you 're worried about . As an aside , the <URL> . To turn IPv4 off go to System Preferences > Network > Advanced > TCPIP Then on the drop-down list next to ' Configure IPv4 ' select the ' Off ' Option . Then beneath that , you can set the ' Configure IPv6 ' drop down menu to whatever you want .
If you 're using iTunes to play music , it 's actually much easier than that , and does n't require any other software . In iTunes , click on the Airplay icon next to the volume control , click " Multiple " and select the devices you wish to play through . <URL>
Your best bet is Apple 's <URL> . There are also assorted USB ethernet adapters available from various sources ( including <URL> ) , including a few <URL> , but the Thunderbolt one will likely have the best performance , so unless you 're using both Thunderbolt ports already , that 's the better choice .
There used to a be a method where by you edited the iTunes Music Library.xml file on the second computer to make your device think the two computers are the same computer . I 'm not sure if it works any more though . Explanation guide <URL> Alternatively the easier way of doing it is to take advantage of <URL> and use an application from the app store . The advantage of this is that most app store video playback applications support more file formats than would be supported though the default video playback app so you wo n't need to do any conversion before copying the videos across . The application I would recommend , and use myself , is <URL>
In any of the common scenarios in which you store your Store credentials on devices under the control of others , it makes good security sense to have those be different from the ones you use for iCloud . For example , it is common to share music among family members by using an Apple ID for purchases on all of the family 's machines . If that Apple ID were the same as the one you used for iCloud , then ( unless you can be sure that all family members have secured their machines ) anyone who got his hands on one of those machines could potentially gain access to your e-mail , calendar , and documents ( and , in typical configurations , could even <URL> if he had access to it ) .
Unfortunately , no . Thunderbolt displays will only work with a Thunderbolt port on your machine - not with a Mini Display Port ...
There 's no official way to achieve this . You have to jailbreak your iPad and use a software like <URL> ( works on all iDevices ) to do this .
Yes - the good splitters mix the pins correctly to provide mono microphone and stereo output in the same jack . You can of course get breakout boxes like the Griffin iMic and have the benefit of a cleaner D/A circuit at the expense of carrying another device that 's plugged into USB . Just like everything - some of the expensive products are over priced and some of the cheap ones are worthless . I 'd go with a name brand - especially if their products are carried on the Apple Online or stocked in the retail stores . Lion does add a control where you can select the speaker icon in the menu and switch from input and output . As to the rationale - unless an engineer from Apple steps up , we 'll have to speculate . Here are the reasons to have fewer ports . ( They 're not al good , but they are reasons ) Simplicity - the iPhone / iPad / iPod touch all have one port . Many people do n't need or want the confusion of knowing which port they plugged in to their mac . Just as you really appreciate having two , many appreciate having only one stereo jack . Internal simplicity - one less switch , one less moving part , several solder points . Internal spacing is far more important than external space . If you look at <URL> - you will see there actually is n't room on the logic board for another connector . The design would have to sacrifice an USB port or the SD card slot to make room for a second package without reducing the space for the battery . These macs are packed incredibly tightly and despite the clean appearance of excess external space , inside they are packed like proverbial sardines in a can . This lack of space likely cuts features from the smaller macs like a redundant mini headphone port .
Two 27 " displays will ( obviously ) take up quite a bit of room . You 'll probably want to look for a desk that has built-in mounting points for your VESA arms ( or built-in VESA arms ) so you do n't have to hang the displays off the wall . ( If you want to rotate the monitor , Apple 's Thunderbolt displays do n't have any built-in rotation ability , so you 'll need an arm that does that , too . OS X 's Displays preferences are where you 'll go to set the rotation on the display . ) There are several different caddies for your MacBook ( such as the <URL> ) that will keep it out of the way of your displays .
If you just saw that you exceeded your data , it could 've been many hours ago while you were not at home . AT&amp;T says it could be delayed by 24 to 48 hours . In my experience , the iPhone will only use data from one connection at a time , not both ; Its choice is indicated by which adapter symbol is showing in the menu bar . When you see the Wi-Fi symbol , your iPhone is only using Wi-Fi for the internet . Example : When I 'm connected to a really bad Wi-Fi network ( if I am almost out of range or it lost its internet connection ) , and trying to load a page in Safari , my iPhone will struggle with loading the page for about 10 to 20 seconds . Then , the Wi-Fi symbol switches to the 3G symbol and the page loads using cellular data . The only exceptions I know of are multimedia messages ( MMS ) that are n't iMessages and Visual Voicemail -- both of these things will not come over Wi-Fi and ca n't be received with cellular data off . They are not using both , but they could use cellular while you 're on Wi-Fi . Last bit of evidence and future-proofing : In iOS 6 Beta 4 , Apple added an option for " Wi-Fi Plus Cellular " . ( <URL> ) It will help people who may be on a Wi-Fi network with little or no internet connection be able to get cellular data through to some apps . ( Maybe I 'm just on the Wi-Fi network for Airplay for example . ) It allows you to choose ( from their pre-set list ) which apps can access cellular data while you 're on Wi-Fi . Before iOS 6 , this option was unavailable .
Both <URL> and <URL> allow your Mac to act as an Airplay receiver for audio or video . I 'm not aware of an app that specializes in audio only Airplay , but either of those should do what you need .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
From the article , <URL> : [ Originally posted on Neowin.net by giga on 04 April 2010 12:26 ] The <URL> clearly state the ability to charge with USB ( with no mention of OS requirements ) but Apple have additionally <URL> disclosing that " some USB 2.0 ports and accessories do not provide enough power to charge iPad . " <URL> , Apple asserts that USB charging is supported but that it varies according to the state of the iPad and the power output of the USB hub : For the fastest charging , use the iPad 's included 10-Watt USB power adapter . This will fully charge the iPad in a few hours , even if you 're using the iPad at the same time . When connected to a high-power USB port -- such as the ones on recent Macs and the iPhone Power Adapter -- the iPad will charge , even during use , but more slowly . ( We have n't yet determined how much more slowly . ) Some third-party powered USB hubs provide higher-power USB ports , but many do n't ; similarly , the USB ports on most Windows PCs do n't provide this additional power . When connected to lower-power USB ports -- those on older Macs , most Windows PCs , and most USB hubs ( powered or unpowered ) -- the iPad 's battery is not charged while the iPad is awake , but is charged ( again , slowly ) when the iPad is asleep . What 's confusing here is that the message " Not charging " appears in the menu bar when the iPad is awake , which might lead you to assume that the offending USB port can never charge your iPad . But rest assured , Apple says : once you put the iPad to sleep , the battery will indeed charge . ( If you could see the screen while the iPad was asleep , it might even display the charging icon . It 's the modern-day " Does the refrigerator light stay on when I close the door ? " mystery . ) Further analysis from Apple 's statements indicate that the iPad can only be charged off of USB connections that provide near 1 amp of current . The majority of USB ports on most older Macs and PCs only provide 500 mA and thus ca n't be used to charge the device . The USB 2.0 specification provides 500 mA of current to high-powered buses and 100 mA for low-powered buses . But in April 2009 , the specification gained a new " <URL> " which provided additional current to high power devices and it seems that Apple has started to incorporate it in their newer Macs .
end question
start question
How do I perfectly sync my contacts with gmail ?
The best way is to stop syncing contacts via iTunes and do it all over the air : On your Mac : go to Contacts.app ( or Address Book.app if you 're not on ML ) > Preferences . Under Accounts tab , tick the checkbox " Synchronize with Google " and add your gmail info . On your iPhone : setup a Google Exchange account in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendards . Google has a <URL> for that . After that all your contacts are synced over the air and iTunes will stop syncing those when you attach your iPhone .
Go to your account settings , delete your iCloud account , reboot , add it again .
If you are backing up to an external disk , the fastest way is to disable Time Machine erase the backup drive/partition with DiskUtil re-enable Time Machine OTOH you wo n't loose anything if you keep the old backups for now . As every time slice within TM is a full backup you can still recover up to " now " .
Go to the " Settings " app " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " . Tap on your Gmail account In the dialog that comes up tap the big red " Delete Account " button at the bottom .
On Lion/Mountain Lion , go to the Preferences on your Contact app , choose Accounts and then On My Mac , and there should be a checkbox Synchronize with Google , you will just need to provide your Gmail credentials . Just as a precaution , make a backup of your contacts first . Just need to go to Gmail , select Contacts , then the More button , Export to download all your contacts to your hard drive .
No , this is limitation of GMail via Exchange on iOS . The only way to have draft support is to use the GMail template when adding a new mail account .
start Contacts on your Mac and export/archive all contacts ( as a backup ) go to System Preferences - > iCloud and disable syncing of contacts ( and anything else you do n't want to sync to iCloud ) log in into iCloud.com directly and delete any contacts stored there
I had that configuration - and also used for friends &amp; family - and it worked just fine . The only drawback is that mail is no longer pushed to your phone . But apart from that , it 's the best solution to have Gmail ( actually working ) and Google Contacts / Calendar on your iPhone .
The first part of the sync error message means exactly what it says - your iPhone can only be associated with a single iTunes library . The second half is tricky for people that are analytical , but for most users it 's meant to make them want to back up their phone before they erase it . Regardless of how you choose to copy your content ( sync manually or automatic ) it maintains a connection to a single library to which is is allowed to copy music/films/apps etc to and from , and where backups/restores etc can be made . Unless you know exactly what was synced - you could be inadvertently erasing some content hence the scary general error message . If you introduce your iPhone to a new iTunes library , then it can remove any content that is associated with the previous one . Assuming you still have access to the old one you can copy the files from one computer to another to enable you to sync them back again after , or you can transfer the purchases to the new iTunes library assuming it has been authorised using the same Apple ID . This is an attempt to limit unauthorised copying of music and other content etc , otherwise you could happily take your phone or iPod around to all your friends laptops and merrily copy all their stuff onto your device , where you could then happily sync it back to your iTunes library at home . Other phone content , like emails , contacts , settings should remain unaffected , as these are not held within the iTunes library ( even if you have set iTunes to be the sync mechanism for putting them on your phone , they belong outside of the library . Rule of thumb : if the original iTunes copied the content on in the first place , it will be removed . It wo n't just wipe the whole phone , just what came from iTunes .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
I do n't believe Google has a public bug tracker . However , there is an unofficial one available at <URL> . I did some extra looking , and there does n't seem to be anything like Apple 's own <URL> or the <URL> . Thankfully , Gmail.app has a built-in mechanism to send feedback with . Starting with your inbox view , open the menu by tapping on the menu icon in the top left . Then : This will provide you with a form to send feedback to Google .
You can use the <URL> tool on the executable file inside the MyApp.app package . After downloading the . zip file , to compile the binary go to Terminal and enter ( or wherever you extracted the zip file ) , then enter . Next enter . Next find my MyApp.app in Finder . Then type , type a space , and then drag MyApp.app into the Terminal , and push enter . Then enter . Next enter . Now your app no longer has a signature . When users try to open it , they will get an " Unidentified Developer " message . Therefore tell them to right-click on it and select " Open " to be able to open it .
If the <URL> does n't work for you , I would suggest making a custom keyboard layout with <URL> ( or if you prefer text-based editing , <URL> ) . Alternatively , if you do n't need quite the level of speed that can offer , you can simply use the Character Palette ( Edit > Emoji and Symbols ) to type the characters by double-clicking them . To get the " Phonetic Alphabet " pane to show up , customize which are visible with the gear icon in the top left .
Here was my final solution . I used <URL> . Great little app , and you can try it free . The only issue I have with it is that it does n't automatically sync . I have to manually sync it . If someone comes up with an automatic way of syncing , I will gladly accept that answer over mine .
I 've had bad RAM that still allowed the machine to boot - a stick of memory in my Mac Pro apparently failed gracefully overnight . The first step would be to check system profiler to see if the memory is being recognized . If indeed it is , there 's a version of MemTest for OS X : <URL>
Maybe you 've already tried this but I 'll suggest it anyway . Open Contacts and tap the arrow in the upper-left corner labelled ' Groups ' if it exists . Ensure you have selected the right group of contacts . If you need to re-synch because the above did not work you could try this : Open the Settings app Open Mail , Contacts , Calendars Select the account causing problems Turn Contacts off and tap Delete From My iPhone if prompted Turn Contacts back on and tap Sync when prompted
Open Mobile Safari and visit <URL> Sign in and navigate up to the list of folders . There 's a gear wheel in the top right , tap it . In here you can set your ' mobile ' signature and opt to use it instead of your desktop signature . This will now also apply to mail sent via the Gmail app . EDIT Theres an update to the gmail app that allows you to do the same thing but from within the app . Show the menu by clicking the icon in the upper left of the screen and you 'll see a gear wheel . Tap that and you can set your mobile signature in there .
There 's 2 different things here which are not pretty clear . First of all , there 's SMS and iMessage . And like explained on this <URL> you can restrict iMessages from giving a notification if you decide you want contacts only ( since iOS6 ) . This does not work for SMS . With iOS the name of Show iMessage alerts from changed , but the functionality remained the same .
No , this does n't work for iCloud email addresses . Just tried it and the email failed to deliver -- the email must be exactly correct .
Yes , the best way to sync cross platform is via google . By far the easiest most care free way to sync all contacts , calendars , email etc is to have all Apple devices , this is how Apple meant for this service to be used . Google has done a good job of making this service available to people working on multiple platforms .
end question
start question
Access Exchange 's public folders in Mail app on Lion ?
Krumelur Mail.app used to be able to see Public Folders on Exchange , but no longer has this ability . Outlook 2011 and Entourage both support this feature .
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
As no answers are forthcoming , I 'll report here my findings . On 2015-09-16 , before iOS 9 GA , I removed the " Beta " profile from the iPad and rebooted . After reboot , says : iOS 9.0 . Software is up to date The version of the software is So it looks good . There 's an oddity , though . When I 've rebooted ( and hard-restart too to be on the safe side ) , every time I unlock the iPad I still get a notification saying : There 's an update available . Update the iOS 9 beta version . I hope that when 9.0 final comes up , the update check will pick it and I 'll be back into mainline versions . I 'll update here when things change . Edit 2015-09-16 19:39 CEST : Apple has just released v9 .0 final and going to software update in Settings I get prompted to upgrade , so it looks like I 'll be able to get back to mainstream . The notification after login stills says the same . Will report later when I have the chance to upgrade . Edit 2015-09-18 : After installing the 9.0 update , and the subsequent reboot , the device says its updated to 9.0 and I no longer get the prompt to update -- so all seems to be fine ! Edit 2015-09-25 : Just a final update to confirm that after a few days running , all seems to be fine . I 've just got the prompt to update to 9.0.1 , so I seem to be fully in " mainstream " now .
Moving the message to the Spam folder will mark it as spam on the gmail server as well as moving it to the spam folder .
To illustrate the point made in the comments , just drag the icon ( or the inlined image ) from the mail body to wherever you want :
To add a rule in Mail , open Mail preferences ( Mail > Preferences ... or ⌘ + , ) and go to the Rules pane . The Apply Rules function applies to all rules whose " Active " checkbox is ticked .
If both system are using the IMAP mail provider all you have to do is setup the connection to the mail server and all the emails and folders will be copied down to the windows computer . That is what IMAP is for . The mail stays on the server , and can be store on the local computer also , and when you connect to the server with another device , computer , phone or pad , all the mail with folders gets copied to the other device . But I think some of your mail was gotten using POP so it is not longer on the server . Or you have emails in local folder only and they would be on the server . But you can create folder on the server in one mail program , or on the mail web interface and then copy those emails into those folder on the server byt copying them in one of the email programs . Then when you log on with the other device all of them will be downloaded to the other device . Other alternative : - You can find various solutions on having a <URL> search for your problem . Or you can have a look at the following link : <URL>
You can look at <URL> and apply accordingly to your case . TL ; DR version :
is the closest you can get with the included FTP binary . You have to mkdir and cd/lcd and then get all the files than match a pattern like The toggle may come in handy . FTP works within a directory , not on directories as containers of files . If you absolutely had to get the job done and ftp was the only tool you could use - you could cobble together an script to drive ftp for you . Thankfully there are alternatives like | | to get whole directories worth of files .
I tried uninstalling some applications , and files in these folders or the corresponding folders in were sometimes deleted and sometimes not : ( deleted for most applications ) Files in these folders were n't deleted for any of the applications I tested with : For example Kindle books or the database for notes in JustNotes were not deleted . You can see what files are accessed by uninstalld with and search for support files with . If you want to uninstall applications more completely , it 's probably safe to just delete the whole sandbox containers in .
Try searching your email for the string : Here 's an example email receipt I received from the iTunes App Store which included an in-app purchase ( in this case , an X-Men comic from the comiXology app ) :
The command-line way : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) and type replacing with the POSIX-style path to the folder you want to hide ( for example , a folder on your desktop called test would be ) . To unhide it , type . The freeware way : I have n't used it , but I 've seen the app <URL> , by Altomac .
I found this , and it works : Say you restore your iPhone with a full wipe and restore . Then you choose a previous backup to restore all of your settings and applications . When your iPhone is done restoring to your backup , all your icons are mixed up on the SpringBoard ... what the heck ? You want to get them back do n't you ? Well , I know a trick and I do n't think it 's documented anywhere . Here it goes . ** Important : Before starting these instructions , backup your iPhone . Then go into iTunes preferences and turn on " Disable automatic syncing for iPhones and iPods " This way your backup wo n't get overwritten after your iPhone gets restored . Restore your iPhone and let it restart and activate . Then iTunes will happily ask you if you want to restore from a previous backup ( with all of your settings and Applications ) . Click the backup you want to restore to and let it restore and reboot . ( Here 's where things get messed up . Your iPhone backup actually restored the correct icon positions except none of your apps were installed before the restore was complete , so iTunes has to copy all of your apps back to your iPhone . When it does this , it copys them in alphabetical order , thus messing up the location of all your 3rd party icons ) . Here 's how to fix this without memorizing where all your icons went . Right click ( or Control-click ) on the iPhone icon in iTunes and choose " Restore from Backup " and choose the backup you chose in step 2 again . Let your iPhone restore for a second time and when it reboots , all of your icons will be in their original places . ( This is because iTunes did n't have to install the Apps because they were already there , thus keeping them in their original locations according to the backup ) . Return your iTunes preferences and uncheck " Disable automatic syncing for iPhone and iPod "
If you search using Spotlight ( from the Home screen ) , you can use and qualifiers , as well as flag and unread status . From Apple 's <URL> page : Examples : Flagged june 2013 Searches for all flagged messages from june 2013 , as well as for messages containing these words Unread last week from:@icloud.com Searches all unread messages from last week where the sender 's email ends with @icloud . com , as well as messages containing these words Vip read yesterday Searches all read messages from contacts marked as VIPs , as well as messages containing these words to : appleseed monday Searches all messages sent on Monday to a contact named " Appleseed " , or an email address starting with appleseed , as well as messages containing these words Note that these examples mention " messages containing these words " . A note above the examples states that to search message bodies , you must use Mail 's search function , not Spotlight , but these examples are for Spotlight . After testing , it appears these work in Mail 's search field as well as Spotlight . In addition to the above , you can use to limit to messages containing attachments , and Mail appears to search within attachments .
It 's quite hard and you might need to delete the mail and measure the space freed since iOS is n't showing Mail usage like it does for other apps . In theory , you should be able to Open the Settings app and presumably : Select General . Select Usage . Wait for the Storage pane to calculate the current allocation and you will see sorted from most space to least , the combined application and application data usage for each app . If Mail is n't on the list , scroll the content up and tap the " show all " entry below the initial list of apps using the most storage space on iOS . As things stand , you will not get Mail as an entry in this list ( and might spend several minutes looking for a smallish blue icon among a list of hundreds of apps ) . My theory is that Apple has implemented code to prune mail storage gradually as your available space becomes low . That would mean that all Mail on iOS is a temporary cache and just like Safari pages held in cache . If all Mail storage is simply an offline cache and not something you can depend on being on the device if you download a large game or take video and otherwise use up your storage , one viewpoint might be that the correct action is to not show the size of this cache no matter how large or small since when push comes to shove , no mail will be retained on the device if space gets low . At best , you might need to actually save a snapshot of your usage and then delete the accounts for Mail from your device and then calculate the difference by assuming all the space freed was due to Mail storage caches .
According to <URL> , and were removed when Apple released OS X for Intel processors . The ( excellent ) article also explains how to reenable the memory devices , namely using the kernel boot argument . To set it , open Terminal , type : and reboot . The article was written in May 2006 , but the Mavericks 10.9.2 kernel still supports the option . After a reboot I saw these two devices : If your Mac wo n't boot or you have any issues , reset the NVRAM by pressing ⌘ optionPR and holding the keys down until you hear the startup sound for the second time , as explained in " Resetting NVRAM / PRAM " in <URL> . If you wish to reset the argument , type and check that does not print any results .
I think you 've dragged the right edge of the middle list all the way to the right , which then hides the preview of the messages . If you hover your mouse of the right edge of the scroll bar on the right you should get the draggable crosshair mouse pointer . Hold it and drag left and you should get the previews back .
You can use multi-touch gestures to swipe to the last app you used , in this case will be mail . First make sure Multi-Touch gestures are turned on in the settings panel . Once this feature is on , you can swipe from right to left with four fingers or more to cycle through the apps you last used . If you do not want to use that , you can double tap the home button top bring up the last few apps used .
OK , after twiddling different combinations , I found a solution that works ( at least on Mac OS X 9.5 Mavericks ) . 1 ) Open the app in question ( e.g. TextEdit ) . 2 ) Click . Note that there is also a . Clicking this general one does n't help ; click the app-specific one . 3 ) Open and set to . Note : While this keeps the minimized-items section of exposé clear of recent items , it also unfortunately disables access to recent items in most other places ( e.g. the menubar or dock ) . Boo Apple : <URL>
Since the release of iOS 5 , it it possible to flag messages using the " Mark " dropdown menu .
end question
start question
Are there configurable power profiles in Mountain Lion like in Windows ?
You might want to investigate the fine-grained control available to you in the Terminal command <URL> . There is a host of features too numerous to mention in this simple posting .
Once you have purchased something in the App Store , you can always download it again without paying ( This is the same on the Mac App Store and iOS ) . You will see it in your ' purchases ' tab in the Mac App Store . So once you use your redemption code , you have ' purchased ' it , and can install it whenever you need it .
This is a bit old , but nothing is drastically different in 10.8 : <URL> This a simple Service for creating new files the currently-open folder in Finder , using AppleScript and Automator . Start by launching Automator , and in the chooser that appears , select Service . This will open a new Automator window , set up to create a Service . In that window , do the following : Set the Service to receive selected folders in Finder ( the two drop-down menus at the top of the work area on the right ) . This makes it easier to assign a keyboard shortcut to our service , which we 'll do at the end . Drag and drop the ' Run AppleScript ' action ( in the Utilities Library ) into the work area on the right . Paste in the following AppleScript , then click the Hammer icon ( to compile the code ) : Drag and drop the ' Set value of a variable ' action from the Utilities Library , and create a new variable called , for example , CurrentFolder . ( Do this by clicking on the drop-down menu . ) Drag and drop the New Text File action from the Text library into the work area . Then drag CurrentFolder from the Variable panel at the bottom of the Automator window to the Where entry of the New Text File action . Click the Options button in the action , and click the ' Show this action when the workflow runs ' box . This makes it possible to change the name and extension of the new file . Save the service as ' Create New File , ' or whatever you like . Test your new action using the Services menu in Finder , to make sure it works ( select a folder , Control-click , and you should see your new Service at the bottom of the contextual menu ) . On the Keyboard Shortcuts tab of the Keyboard System Preferences panel , select Services in the left-hand column , and your new service ( it should be in the Files and Folders section ) in the right-hand panel . Assign a keyboard shortcut to the new Service by double-clicking to the right of the Service 's name . Switch back to Automator and change the leftmost drop-down menu ( at the top of the work area ) to No Input , then save the Service again .
By default this file does not exist on any version of OS X. And yes , it is up to you to create it manually : Alternatively , you could use nano as well if you want to edit the file at the same time : Do not monkey in unless you know what you 're doing .
In the print dialog you should save a new preset . Below you can find the steps to do so . Open the Print dialog . It will look something like this : Check the box . Go to the Presets drop down list and click Type a name for the preset in the dialog and choose if you want this preset available for all your installed printers or just this one . Now choose that preset in the dropdown list . The next time you will print something the preset will be automatically active , so it will print two-sided as default .
The problem is to do with the file system . Whilst I had mentioned in some comments that I had plugged it into a Windows machine , I should have mentioned this in the main post . I assumed that Windows would pick up there 's a drive there , even if it could n't read the files , but I misunderstood how file systems work . To fix this , I simply installed MacDrive 9 ( there 's also HFSExplorer ) and plugged the hard disk directly into my PSU on my main system at work , and lo , behold the data ! . I was quite surprised . I will not make this mistake again , as it was written in the book of data " thou shalt back up thy data otherwise a mighty plague of death upon your magnetic storage ! " So remember , Windows just fails to recognise an HFS-formatted drive .
Microsoft has released a version of <URL> It is available in the App Store for users with OS X 10.9 or later .
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
Apple 's tools for accessing the Spotlight index ( Spotlight itself and the command ) do n't offer any regex options , nor do I know of any 3rd party tools that offer that ( I 'm not actually sure Apple has APIs that would make that possible ) . However the command does offer a much more powerful interface than the GUI Spotlight search . It offers proper binary operators and finer grained control over what metadata you search . Check out <URL> for some good information , as well as the <URL> .
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
So , I FINALLY figured it out ... Instead of deleting the rw disk image , it is enough to rename it .
Apple has n't really discussed specifically what Low Power Mode actually does . Its main underdocumented feature is that it underclocks the processor , reducing performance to increase battery life , but there 's a few other tweaks it makes to the system as noted underneath the switch . As shown in these screenshots , Low Power Mode reduces the performance by ~ 30 % . Source : <URL> Apple lists the following as features modified by Low Power Mode : Email fetch Hey Siri Background app refresh Automatic downloads Wi-Fi associations Some visual effects Source : <URL> More details are provided in the developer documentation ( <URL> ) : Reduce CPU and GPU performance Pause discretionary and background activities , including networking Reduce screen brightness Reduce the timeout for auto-locking the device Disable Mail fetch Disable motion effects Disable animated wallpapers Source : <URL> Apple encourages developers to take advantage of this feature by implementing a lower power state in their apps . This means that this feature may increase battery life through support in third-party apps . Your app should take additional steps to help the system save energy when Low Power Mode is active . For example , your app could reduce the use of animations , lower frame rates , stop location updates , disable syncs and backups , and so on .
OK , I sussed it out . You can still do it , it 's just that the way you do it is based on context rather than using the appropriate command . Basically , to use the virtual display , you need multiple user accounts on the target machine , and you need an account to be already logged into the target machine such that you can login a 2nd time using the virtual display . Any account you wish to log into obviously needs the associated sharing rights enabled . Then follow the following logic : If no one is logged into the target machine , you will always get the Hardware display showing the normal login screen , when you login from that screen you continue to use the hardware display . If the user you try to login as is already logged in , then it will always switch to that user and continue to use the hardware display If you login with a user who is not already logged in at the hardware display but someone else is ( this is the key , the Hardware display needs to be in use by someone else ) , you get the following message and the ability to use the virtual display . If you want to use the virtual display for privacy reasons , you can not simply switch to it like you could in 10.7 , but you could simply leave the target machine with Guest logged in on the Hardware display to allow you to login as your primary user on the Virtual one .
In the current , iOS 5 version , of Game Center , in order for friends in common to appear ( as " shared friends " ) , they must also have upgraded to iOS 5 ( and have accepted the new ToS ) .
If you are using a MacOS/iOS BT keyboard with the Option and Command ( aka clover leaf or open Apple ) keys , then this should help you out ... iPad Navigation Keyboard Commands Basic keyboard navigation shortcuts on iPad are as follows : Control + Option + H -- Home button Control + Option + H+H -- Show multitask bar Control + Option + i -- Item chooser Escape -- Back button Right Arrow -- next item Left Arrow -- previous item Up + Down Arrows simultaneously -- tap selected item Option + Down Arrow -- scroll down Option + Up Arrow -- scroll up Option + Left or Right Arrow -- scroll left or right Control + Option + S -- turn VoiceOver speech on or off iPad App Switcher Keyboard Commands Arguably the most useful set of commands are related to app switching : Command + Shift + Tab -- switch to the previous app Command + Tab -- switch back to the original app Left + Right Arrow , then Option + Left or Option + Right -- navigate through Dock Source : <URL> More shortcuts : <URL>
The simplest solution I found is to <URL> ( download button is on top right ) Unpack it to somewhere . Preferably to . This is what it looks for me : Set your to your new location by doing before your in your ( or ) file Prepend to your by doing this Restart your shell or do
Apple only provides Mission Control ( ctrl ↑ ) and Application Windows ( formerly Exposé : ctrl ↓ ) for window management . Yes , this was ( and still is ) my least favorite change after switching to macOS . Under → System Preferences → Dock , you may also uncheck Minimize windows into application icon to avoid " losing " minimized windows , but this can quickly clutter your Dock .
In my experience for Mountain Lion , determining which display is the primary display is usually achieved by dragging the white Menu Bar ( circled in screenshot below ) onto the graphic of another display , thus setting the other display as the primary monitor .
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
Unarchiving is built into OS X. All you have to do to unarchive a file is to open it . You can do that by double clicking , pressing cmd + o ( between i and p ) , or by right-clicking and choosing Open . So , just right-click on the file and select Open to unarchive . Ta-da , no extra software required .
end question
start question
What will registering an apple device a developer device do to it ?
Still works fine . This will allow you to install you own Apps on the device for testing . Otherwise the only way 's to get apps on you iOS device is Jailbreak or App Store .
The absolute worst case scenario is you are forced to revert back to a non-jailbroken device and may lose content if you did not make the necessary backups . That is bar-none the worst case scenario . It is also of note that Apple will turn you away should you bring in a device that is jailbroken . They have a firm stance against the practice and state that it will void your warranty . Of course reinstalling iOS and removing the jailbreak corrects this matter . Additionally , upgrading to future iOS versions will remove the jailbreak ( OTA updates in iOS 5 can not be performed ) . You can not " brick " your device , rendering it inoperable by using any jailbreak utilities . Repeat , you can not " brick " your device anymore than you can render a Mac inoperable by messing with OS X . A simple restore returns the device back to its original state . The ill-gotten rumor likely started due to the protection schemas in place that safe guard the mobile device from tampering ( i.e. , breaking Apple 's closed system ) . Apple has set up a gauntlet a jailbreaker must bypass in order to open iOS . During those stages , problems may occur , leaving the phone in a state of " flux . " This occurs when the device is left without a working operating system . In this state , it will not graciously look to iTunes for a fix . But rather sit in this state of limbo and require additional software to " bring it back to life . " It is , however , always possible to restore it and any coming forward to claim otherwise are only bringing to light their own ignorance and ineptitude at correcting the matter . I think an apt analogy would be to look at someone trying to jump start a car . It 's possible to boost any car , but some may reverse the cables , or fail to clamp the negative to a proper ground . Sparks fly and the ECU shorts . Surely if the person knew what they were doing , they would have jump started the car without issue . Jailbreaking itself does not pose an inherent risk . There have been cases where a jailbreak actually allowed the patching of a known security risk ( <URL> and then subsequently provided means to repair it well before Apple stepped in correct the matter upstream ) . These cases , are however , rare . Most of the time , a jailbreak relies on similar exploits to deliver itself ( <URL> ) . So while the jailbreak is safe , it may force a user to remain on a compromised version of iOS and unlike the initial PDF exploit that made jailbreakme.com possible , may not have the means to patch it . The biggest threat is the expansion of capabilities made famous through Cydia . The most prolific is the installation of SSH ( a secure file transfer protocol ) without changing the two accounts on the device ( root and mobile ) . They both share the same password ( alpine ) and without changing them , a mischievous hacker only needs to get the device 's respective IP address . After which , they will have root access ( full control ) . This , of course , is easy enough to overcome and will likely only affect the most ignorance of user bases . Surely you can not claim a house is unsafe because the residents refuse to lock their door ! Lastly , the installation of apps through untrusted Cydia repositories may also be a cause for concern . Jailbreaking a device removes Apple 's signature checks , so the device is only too happy to run most code thrown at it . While Apple stringently approves what code is given the authority to run on your device ( and sandboxes all apps for that matter , greatly restricting their privileges ) those checks are removed after the device is jailbroken . Moreover , those apps are no longer sandboxed like the ones found on Apple 's App Store . It 's possible that a user may come across malicious code , but no such cases have been made public . The jailbreaking community is n't bent on malicious intent , but rather freedom of choice . In that respect , they act as paladins , and anyone seeking to exploit their work would be brought to light before long . The troubles affecting jailbreaking essential revolve around ignorance and naivety . For an experienced and intelligent user , they bring no more risk to one 's security than a " locked " device . And in some cases , may provide the ability to tighten 's one 's security and privacy ( typically made possible by developers that use Cydia to distribute their wares ) . Note : Cydia itself is a reputable " store . " The programs found within it 's walls are all safe and typically carry some level of professionalism . The problems arise when users register outside repositories ( or repos ) that carry untested , pirated , or questionable software . Jailbreaking also does not mean iOS is free to run " cracked " software found legitimately in the App Store . Those security measures remain intact even on a jailbroken device and must be circumvented separately , outside of the actual jailbreak . Many are confused by this duality and assume a jailbroken device can natively install pirated apps . That is not the case .
That totally depends on the apps you want to do . Do they need GPS localization ? A microphone ? Front or back cameras ? Hi-res camera ? Besides , you ca n't test an iPad app on the iPhone , so you 'll need an iPad no matter what . Edit : According to the comment , an iPod Touch would be enough for you .
You wo n't need to use OpenSSH at all whatsoever . The VPN settings are saved in / var/preferneces/com . apple.networkextension.plist file . Open it with a text editor . It 's not encrypted . The passwords are saved in the keychain instead of inside this file . You can not access the keychain on an iOS device and decrypt it easily but you can do it over a macbook that shares the keychain with your iOS device ( if you enabled it ) . Type in your master password to view the saved passwords .
Search for in Lion or later ( or in Snow Leopard and earlier versions of Mac OS ) in Spotlight ( press ⌘ and Space ) . The program is in / Applications/Utilities and is the tool to see the connected USB devices and other hardware details . It is quite simliar to on Windows . Alternatively you can access it via the Apple Menu - > - > - > The System Information can save system profiler information to a file , so you could review an older snapshot to see what was connected once , but the Mac OS does n't record all the devices connected - just the ones actually connected when you run the tool and it scans the current items on the device tree .
Try menu > About this Mac > System Report ... Select USB on the left , then find your device in the list . The reported speed ought to be a giveaway . Mine shows it 's only running at USB2 speeds [ but that 's because I do n't have a USB3 machine ] <URL>
iOS devices allow you to use different Apple IDs for different purposes . You can set the Apple ID to be associated with Messages in Settings > Messages .
I know of no device that is sold to act as a write block that also allow full 1A charging , but <URL> might help you if you wanted a DIY hardware solution for the older 30 pin USB connectors . In the mean time , you have several ways to secure the data without needing a custom piece of hardware . Lock your iOS device with a passcode before connecting it . <URL> . You could go a step further and be ready to power off the device as soon as it 's connected - shortening the window for the OS to be available to the charging station . The devices will still charge and should n't wake up unless it detects a disconnect/reconnect of the USB cord . Be careful to not establish trust with unknown chargers and computers by tapping when prompted by iOS 7 . Furthermore , if you upgrade to iOS 7 , anytime you connect to a computer which could potentially read your data , you are alerted to this fact rather than having the device share all data because it 's not locked with a passcode . This <URL> prevents any access to your device 's storage without a positive user step to allow that access . The device wo n't talk data to the " charging station " until the passcode is entered on the touchscreen . ( Or the astronomically unlikely but theoretically possible chance that the charging station provides the one and only unique to you secure certificate generated and stored on your primary iTunes computer . ) The charging station ca n't try entering passwords one by one - so it 's not like you are at more risk by charging an hour versus 2 minutes .
iTunes Match is a subscription service that allows you to sync your music collection across all devices that you add to the service . Songs are either " matched " or " uploaded " . Matched songs appear much like they do if you have purchased them , in fact if you delete a matched song from your device , the copy you download will be the full DRM-free 256kbps version of that song from iTunes . Without the subscription service , Apple still makes all previous purchases available to you . It knows you have purchased them and allows you to re-download them . In this sense you are getting part of the iTunes Match service but it only works for songs purchased from iTunes . Show All Music does exactly that . It shows all your music whether on the device or in the cloud . Turn it off and you only see items that have been downloaded to your device . This is really handy when you are offline . Nothing worse than trying to use your iPhone to play songs that are still in the cloud when you are in airplane mode . So to answer your question , you need to turn on iTunes Match to be able to see your non-downloaded songs that were not purchased from iTunes or did not " match " songs in the iTunes store . Once you have downloaded everything you can turn iTunes Match off if you like , but every time you turn it on again it " replaces " the music on your device with what is in iTunes Match .
I would n't call Google Drive an iCloud competitor . Google Drive ( like Dropbox ) is your hard drive on the Internet . Meaning you can see , and manipulate your files . iCloud is a bit different , for starter , it 's an Apple-centric service , you can backup your iOS devices , store your music ( but only access it with iTunes ) , store your ( iCloud ) mail , calendar , reminders and contacts , and let apps store settings on it . But you ca n't access it directly like you would do with Dropbox or Google Drive . So I would say that you will not be able to use Google Drive to back up your iOS devices as easily as you would do with iCloud .
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
There are really only two ways to back up your iPad . Both of them are comphrehensive and should transfer everything onto a new iPad . Chances are , the space difference is comprised of music , and movies , and such that you can re-download from iTunes . iCloud will handle that part automatically , and iTunes probably wo n't . But , it 's not hard to do . Option 1 : iCloud iCloud is likely the easiest backup solution . Configure it in Settings > iCloud , and make sure the initial backup completes before wiping your device . This is a <URL> including information that is backed up . The only thing is there is a 5GB free storage limit . After that , you will need to purchase more storage ( for a nominal fee ) . Option 2 : iTunes The traditional way of backing up iOS data , this way still stands strong and true . iTunes should backup all your needed data . Check out this <URL> . I did n't find a specific mention of iBooks PDFs ( which should be stored in iTunes , correct ? ) , but it did mention on the 3rd bullet : Application settings , preferences , and data , including documents . This likely includes iBooks PDFs . So , in summary , <URL> is likely going to be your best , easiest , and most user friendly way to backup . If it were me , I would do both . I have restored a backup from iCloud and found it remarkably easy and simple .
Nope , the latest versions of the AppleTV have 8GB of storage however the device does n't allow the user to view or modify anything about the status storage ( at least in a stock state ) . During the introduction of the first all black AppleTV Steve Jobs said , People do n't want to think about managing storage , they just want to watch movies and TV shows .
The only exposed API to use the audio hardware under iOS is the RemoteIO Audio Unit API . The driver for the audio input/output hardware does not seem to be exposed via a * nix device on Mac OS X , or in its iDevice derivatives .
No I mix and match my chargers often , the only disadvantage is that the iPhone charger charges slower according to a lot of sources , but I have yet to experience it . I still have an iPhone 3G charger I use as a spare at work to charge my iPad on occasion . Interestingly I have never noticed my chargers getting hot either , but will admit I have never actively looked . Looking at the Charging Tips <URL> the reason for the slower charge is that the iPhone charger is 5W compared to 10W for the iPad , based on wattage alone , I ca n't see how you would damage the iPad , I would suspect using a higher wattage might however .
Yes - triggering a location update does use more battery than if the phone were simply idle and chatting from time to time with cell towers to be ready to receive a notification , email or phone call . No - the high power location drain when you have a GPS mapping program running in the foreground is n't what happens when you use the web site to request one location update . As long as you are not constantly sending a ping noise or managing to hammer the find my phone interface with a non-stop stream of requests , the phone will be quite efficient with the screen off , a quick location update and then it will go back to idle power and consume no more power than if it were sitting in your pocket . Think of the function as this : You log into find my phone ( web or another iOS device ) and the service looks up all your devices and sends one refresh to each . The device gets a notification over either of the connections it always attempts to keep open to Apple via both Wi-Fi and cellular data channels . Apple says - " hey - figure out where you are and then report back " Your phone does it 's location dance as best it can with available GPS , cell tower , and Wi-Fi and then tells Apple where it thinks it might be ( and how accurate a fix it thinks it has achieved ) . Apple says thanks and your phone goes back to being idle ( presumably powering down GPS once not recently requested ) . You then see that location update on your display . Apple caches the data , so you will see the last known location for quite a while before it goes to " location unknown " over a period of hours and the last fix becomes stale .
Airfoil from <URL> can stream audio from the Mac to many other devices , including iOS . It will capture any audio running on your system , either from a specific input ( e.g. Mic ) , application , or the entire system audio . Airfoil Speakers Touch Airfoil Speakers Touch runs on iPhones , iPods Touch , and iPads running iOS 4.0 or higher . Use it to send audio to your iOS device when connected to your local network ! Airfoil Speakers Touch works exclusively with Airfoil for Mac and Airfoil for Windows .
Under Settings → Users → [ you ] → Login Items → select iTunesHelper , then click the minus sign and log out/into your Mac . No devices will cause iTunes to launch ( that 's the whole purpose of iTunesHelper ) .
From Apple 's <URL> ( emphasis added ) : If you ca n't access the device that shared the tab , the tab will automatically be cleared from the list after 14 days if the tab is n't updated . So , any leftover tabs should be gone after two weeks .
The only super major differences the 1st Gen Apple TV 's has from the new ones is the ability to store Movies , Music , Content , etc because they have a physical hard drive in them for doing those things . The other things is that they can connect to TV 's through Red , Blue , Green Component Cables . They also do not support Airplay with out a hack or a software fix . Also , the newest Apple TV , the 3rd Gen , allows for 1080p HD playback , where the older ones only support 720p HD playback . There are also a few other minor differences in size , power consumption , software options/OS and so on . The new Apple TV 's do not have hard drives or Component Cable outputs and support Airplay out of the box . Airplay is probably the biggest feature that makes people who do n't want to hack to jump ship to the newer box . It is pretty cool . The 1080 HD playback is nice , but depending on your TV , may or may not be noticeable/important . Some people like the older ones also because they can be hacked and used as linux computers ( <URL> ) with actual storage and since they can also store things on them , you can take it with you and have videos/music on it and not require internet for streaming your content . Though the biggest reason is most likely the hack-ability of them , they are tiny computers with a decent amount of power . And since they are n't sold any more and are still sought after , that would explain their above average price . The new Apple TV 's require internet of some kind or at least a local network for stream video and movies and data from a computer or the internet . They are also significantly smaller too , the older Apple TVs are much larger . You can see all the differences on their wiki page , it lays out the differences in features between the devices and even talks about most of the hacks that are available . Very informative . <URL> I hope that this answer helps you out .
end question
start question
Is my SATA cable damaged ?
I replaced the cable , and everything is now back to normal . So , as I suspected , the cable was the culprit . Instructions on how to replace the SATA cable is easily found online ( search for things like ) . The only tricky part was to connect the sleep LED to the cable , but if you just check how the old cable is connected you 'll be fine .
Emailing full resolution photos or videos On your iPhone open your camera roll and navigate to the overview screen where all your recent captures are shown via small square icons . Press and hold on the icon for the video you wish to move to your computer and select copy from the pop-up menu that appears . Still on your iPhone open Mail and create a new message . In the body of the message , press and hold the cursor , and select paste from the pop-up menu . The message you send will now have the full , unadulterated video attached which you can download on your desktop . Note : on my iPhone 4 I created a 4 second clip with very little motion and it used 6 MB . You may hit your attachment limit very quickly depending on length and resolution .
This is your <URL> . The number of lit dots indicates how much battery you have left .
If you do n't want to use , you can edit your crontab as you would do on any unix systems : crontab - e Or , you can use a GUI software like <URL> .
There are several bluetooth solutions , that should be useful : <URL> ( $ 29 ) - This should do the trick . Works and has interesting features . I recommend it . <URL> - No longer developed and supported . I see almost everything vanished , but I think you should be able to locate a working copy somehow . Edit : As of OS X 10.10 Yosemite and iOS8 this will be included in the OS itself . It 's called <URL> . ps . I 'm not in any way connected to the authors of the software , mentioned in my answer .
It is almost certain that you have a hardware problem , something wrong with the actual touchscreen . Since the iPhone 4 is less than a year old it 's still under warranty , Apple will fix it for free . If you have n't done so already you can try a complete restore of your iPhone , erasing everything and returning it to it 's brand new state ( after backing it up ) . Odds are not good that this will fix it , but it 's worth a shot , especially if having Apple repair it is a hassle . Apple explains how to back it up and restore it here : <URL>
Short answer : it does n't matter . Longer version : Either will work fine . SATA is backwards compatible , so SATA 6Gb/s drives will work on SATA 3Gb/s interfaces and vice-versa . The 2011 Macbook Pros have 6Gb/s ports for the HD ( some in the optical bay as well ) . However , no mechanical hard drive can come close to maxing out SATA 3Gb/s speed , so you 'll see no difference from a 6Gb/s drive or interface . It makes a difference with SSDs , but with hard drives , it 's merely marketing .
It is possible , although not from Apple themselves . A company called OWC seem to specialise in SSD upgrades for macbook 's and have upgrades for your model <URL> These particular upgrades offer greater speed and capacity to some of the stock apple SSD 's from 2011 .
My information is second-hand , but another user at my company gave an strongly enthusiastic recommendation of a " NewerTech " USB to DVI adapter . Note that this will require use of their driver , but he has had no issues with it . It is available from <URL> .
From the link provided : Supports eSATA Transfer Speed up to 3Gbps Supports USB 2.0 Transfer Speed up to 480Mbps For the 3Gbps transfer speed you will need the <URL> and the <URL>
The procedure of photo transfer from iPhone to Mac is astoundingly simple and takes few minutes . You can simply follow below steps : Download <URL> Firstly you will need to download the iPhone to Mac Wi-Fi transfer app to your iPhone through Apple App Store . No installation on your Mac required ! Connect your iPhone and Mac to the same Wi-Fi network . If you do not have multiple routers at your place , your iOS devices should detect and connect to the same Wi-Fi network automatically . Otherwise you might need to manually choose the Wi-fi network for your iPhone to the same as the Mac . Run the iPhone Photo Wireless Transfer Run the photos iPhone to Mac Wireless transfer app on your iPhone . You will get a local IP address through which your Mac can access your iPhone photos library . Browse through your iPhone photo library from your Mac browser Open the web browser on your Mac , type the above IP address in the address bar of your web browser on the Mac . It could be Internet Explorer , Chrome , Firefox , Safari , or any other web browsers you have . Press Enter on the keyboard , all photos and albums from this iPhone 's photo library will be listed on the Photo Wireless Transfer interface right on your Mac browser . After the Wi-Fi connection between your iPhone and Mac established , you can use the web browser on the Mac to browse through photo library and albums on iPhone . Open the target photo album , you will find all photos listed as thumbnails . Transfer photos from iPhone to Mac Now it 's time to pick up the photos from iPhone photo library and transfer to Mac over Wi-Fi . You can click the ' preview ' to enlarge the photos ; you can click ' Download original ' to download pictures one by one ; you can also select multiple photos or all photos in the album and download them as a compressed zip file . With this iPhone to Mac transfer tool , to copy photos from iPhone to Mac over the air is much easier than ever before .
The takeapart guide on iFixit sells replacement parts , but expect them to be pricey . The Air is a very , very delicate machine so be warned that getting it put back together takes more grace than getting it apart . Worst case , you could buy an entire display assembly if you feel you are doing more damage than good by proceeding with this repair . Three cables go into the Air 's display assemblyL Wi-Fi antenna Backlight power LVDS cable I presume you nicked the last one - it has the widest connector to the logic board . The real problem is getting inside the Air 's display assembly as I have n't seen that documented anywhere publicly available . That cable might be part of the LCD panel and might be something you could try to buy used from a liquid damaged or physically damaged Air . Here 's where the question lacks details to know why you were in there to begin . What part was being replaced that caused you to need a razor blade on this repair ? Are you going inside the display assembly in the first place ? Do n't rule out taking it in to the store in a static safe back with your tail between your legs . You will then know if they can fix it by quoting you an out of warranty part cost plus labor to fix things - both what was originally wrong and the things that have now gone not right .
The problem is to do with the file system . Whilst I had mentioned in some comments that I had plugged it into a Windows machine , I should have mentioned this in the main post . I assumed that Windows would pick up there 's a drive there , even if it could n't read the files , but I misunderstood how file systems work . To fix this , I simply installed MacDrive 9 ( there 's also HFSExplorer ) and plugged the hard disk directly into my PSU on my main system at work , and lo , behold the data ! . I was quite surprised . I will not make this mistake again , as it was written in the book of data " thou shalt back up thy data otherwise a mighty plague of death upon your magnetic storage ! " So remember , Windows just fails to recognise an HFS-formatted drive .
It is not possible to manage the feeds inside <URL> . Nevertheless it will synchronize all changes made to feeds within Google Reader . So if you want to rename a feed , open the webpage of Google Reader and go to the preferences . In the prefs , choose the Abonnements tab ( at least this is the German headline ) and rename the feed . If you now head back to the Reeder.app and synchronize your feeds the changes will be reflected and the feed will be renamed . Please remember that this workaround will only work until July 1 , because Google is shutting down the Reader service .
Yes it is , you have to connect your iPad to your PC once . Select your device in iTunes and check the flag " sync with this iPad over Wi-Fi " under the tab " Summary " . Click " apply " . Now you can sync your device without connect it to iTunes trough the cable . You can do it both from iTunes and from the iPad . If you want to launch the sync from your iPad go to " Settings - > General - > iTunes Wi-Fi Sync "
It depends . If your machine was password protected , you might be out of luck . If not , there are a few possibilities . If you have SSH enabled that might be an option . Also , if you had any remote access programs installed , like TeamViewer or LogMeIn , you have a chance to find it , assuming it 's connected to the internet . Regardless , I suggest contacting Apple and telling them the serial number of the machine and that it was stolen . If it 's brought in for service , you might be able to get it back . ( Although Apple has no official policy on this , it does n't hurt to tell them . I contacted them when my iMac was stolen . Like I said , not much help , but it 's better than nothing . ) PS : Check <URL> out . You might find it inspiring at least .
Dr. Bott have HDMI adapters that can transmit audio as well as video , assuming your MacBook supports it ( yours does ) : <URL> Then , <URL> which transmits both video and audio . Note that Thunderbolt is <URL> with Mini DisplayPort as far as these cables/adapters are concerned .
Just managed to upgrade my Late 2012 Retina Macbook Pro using a Samsung mSATA 512GB SSD and an 7 +17 pin adapter like this one : <URL> WORKS ! PS . Use " sudo trimforce enable " in the Terminal , to get trim and full speed . PS1 . Newer Retina Macbook Pros use the 18 +8 pin adapter like this one ( do n't know if they fit , late-2012 Retinas have a lot of room unlike the newer models ) : <URL>
<URL> , yes , it can carry power for devices in some circumstances . Specifically : 7 . Does the Thunderbolt port supply power to connected devices ? Yes . A Thunderbolt port supplies power if that Thunderbolt port is part of a device that is connected to an AC power outlet or is operating on battery power . If your Thunderbolt devices have their own power supplies , you should connect the power supplies to them for optimal functionality . If you are using Thunderbolt devices that get their power only from the Thunderbolt bus , computers running on battery power will experience battery drain more quickly . The <URL> currently say the copper-based version of the Thunderbolt protocol can deliver 18 V at 550 mA ( 9.9 W max ) . Presumably all Thunderbolt cables are built to this spec and can handle that kind of power passing through them . Whether the connected device can supply that kind of power is another question that can only be answered by looking at specific devices . Thunderbolt over an optical , instead of copper , connection would not be able to carry any power with the data signal . I note this only because Thunderbolt was original designed to be an optical protocol ; though its since been adapted to copper which is a good thing .
I 've just tried this , and the answer was unexpected ... When I created the image it was stored in the following folder :
end question
start question
Can iSight be used by more than 1 application at the same time ?
The simple answer is no - in general the one camera only sends data to one app . The more complicated answer is that the API ( application programming interface ) that Apple publishes enforces this restriction . If a developer hooks into the hardware directly or there is a bug in the API , it is possible to share that stream . So for most Apps made by someone other than Apple , once the iSight is in use by one application , it is unavailable to other applications until the application releases the use of it or the application closes . User <URL> rightly points out that this is not the case for Facetime and Photobooth , where Apple is either using an undocumented or private API or accessing the hardware directly so that both apps can share the camera feed .
Thanks to <URL> , it would appear to be safe to say that the Apple Watch is more powerful than a Cray-2 : Twice as fast , twice the memory . 2 excerpts from that table <URL> :
If you look at the Apple Store page for <URL> , you 'll see it comes with the ATI Radeon HD 5770 1GB . Under " Second Display , " it says : All Mac Pro graphics cards support up to three displays : two using Mini DisplayPort and one using DVI . Under " Graphics , " it says : Configure your Mac Pro with two cards to power up to six displays simultaneously for visualization projects and large display walls . If you click on the " Learn more " link under Graphics , it says : ATI Radeon HD 5770 Ideal for motion graphics , 3D modeling , rendering , or animation , the ATI Radeon HD 5770 with 1GB of fast GDDR5 memory comes standard -- and provides up to 5x more performance than previous Mac Pro standard graphics cards . It also includes two Mini DisplayPort outputs and a dual-link DVI port . and Dual-display and triple-display modes Both ATI Radeon HD cards each have two Mini DisplayPort outputs and one dual-link DVI output for a total of three video ports . All three ports are available for simultaneous use , depending upon the type of connection ... Note : If you are using more than one Mini DisplayPort to Single-Link DVI adapter , only two displays are supported across the three ports . To connect up to two Mini DisplayPort displays and up to a 30-inch DVI display simultaneously , use the ports without any adapters . To connect two DVI displays , use the dual-link DVI port and the Apple Mini DisplayPort to DVI Adapter or the Apple Mini DisplayPort to Dual-Link DVI Adapter ( sold separately ) . To connect three DVI displays at once , you must use two Apple Mini DisplayPort to Dual-Link DVI Adapters ( sold separately ) . To connect up to three VGA displays simultaneously , use the Mini DisplayPort to VGA adapter and DVI to VGA adapters ( sold separately ) . However , based on <URL> , it 's worth reading these two Knowledge Base articles before making a buying decision : <URL> <URL>
If you 're using iTunes to play music , it 's actually much easier than that , and does n't require any other software . In iTunes , click on the Airplay icon next to the volume control , click " Multiple " and select the devices you wish to play through . <URL>
You can choose which calendars to sync by going to : <URL> For more info , you can read Google 's support doc about <URL> .
It <URL> the AppleScript is run within Quicksilver 's process ( depending on how you run it ) . If that 's the case , you 'd need to relaunch Quicksilver . If it 's not completely frozen , you can do this quickly with ⌃ ⌘ Q . It might also be possible to set some kind of timeout in the script to prevent it from hanging indefinitely .
On the root of each indexed volume , a hidden folder called . Spotlight-V100 . Also : spotlight metadata is probably not large enough to be worthwhile in excluding , at least if you are doing this for space reasons . Spotlight is also essential for TM to work properly , as this is how TM determines which files have changed since the last backup .
You can set the audio value on boot using this : will set to 0 % volume ( i.e. mute ) You can reset this by resetting the NVRAM by booting with ⌘ ⌥ PR , or running
That 's because you downloaded some app using that old ID . When the app downloaded using that ID tries to update , it asks for the password of that ID .
It would really depend on which end of the 1980s we choose . A <URL> would be a good midline choice . CPU speed of the Cray-2 was about 250MHz , with what we would today call 4 cores . 256Megs of memory but at 64bits per address instead of 8 , or as we would call it today 2 GB of RAM . In terms of raw power it has been compared to an iPad . that 's if you use a CPU benchmark . However , supercomputers are usually optimized for parallel tasks or rather staggering amounts of input-output . It really is n't practical to say " my phone could replace supercomputer X from year Y " as they are n't capable of performing the same tasks . If we jump back a couple more generations we can say that an iPhone could have run the entire Apollo program assuming we hooked it up to a signal booster ( and hold it the right way ) . The iPhone beats the Cray hands-down in power consumption : 200 kW , 480 V 3-phase power coming in resulting in over 2000 amps internal power . Pressurized liquid cooling with an external heat exchanger the size of a car . Looks awesome sitting in your dedicated computing center though .
Apple limits what can run in the background to ensure battery life is not dramatically reduced . Skype will be constrained to the same restrictions that all other App Store apps must follow . Given this , it is fair to assume Skype uses no more than any other Internet telephony app running in the background on your iPhone . Fraser Speirs 's article may be helpful in better understanding <URL> .
You can switch between an app 's windows using a keyboard shortcut , a menu bar item , the app 's Dock icon , and Mission Control . The keyboard shortcut to switch to the next window behind the current one is cmd + ` . That corresponds to the Window - > Cycle Through Windows menu bar item . The menu item is n't available in all apps , but the shortcut usually is . You can also use the Window menu in the menu bar to go directly to the window of your choice . Each window is shown there , and you can click on its item to switch to the window . A similar menu is available in an app 's Dock icon 's contextual menu ( access by clicking and holding , or right/control-clicking ) : You can also acces visual previews of all of an app 's windows and click on the preview of the window you want to switch to . To do this , press F10 . This brings up Mission Control 's Application Windows function . You can also access this function by the Show All Windows item in an app 's Dock icon 's contextual menu .
Yes , this is entirely possible . Your SIM card number is provisioned by the carrier to include features X , Y and Z based on your rate plan with them . This can include tethering by device type . If you have multiple SIM cards , it is possible they have enabled the feature for one SIM card but disabled it for the other , either by accident or on purpose . You would need to contact your carrier directly to find out if they have disabled it .
The great thing about a specific question is that it can be given a specific answer . For example , the OP said : " There 's an excellent Flickr app called SuprSetr which I 'd like to automatically launch each morning at 3:55 am . How ? " Answer : Save the following as ( or whatever name you prefer , but it should end with . plist ) and put it into the folder ~ / Library/LaunchAgents ( where ~ is your Home Directory ) : And then , once the file is in place , you should enter this command in Terminal : Then it will be ready to launch the app SuprSetr at 3:55 a.m. every day . ( Note : if the computer is asleep at 3:55 a.m. , it will run when the computer wakes up . ) From that specific example , once you understand that what this file does does is tell to run the Terminal command : at the hour ' 3 ' and the minute ' 55 ' , then it should be easy to extrapolate from that to other apps that you want to run at other times . Now , if you want to write these all by hand , you can do that for free , but an app like <URL> is a good choice ( I 'd recommend not buying the Mac App Store version , as the app seems to me like something that Apple is not going to like in the world of sandboxing , and you 'd get a more feature-rich app from the developer . My personal preference is for an app called <URL> which is free to try , and then the developer asks for something reasonable like US$ 10 , but there is no DRM , no license codes , but instead relies on the good ol' honor system . ( It 's my hope that people who use it will live up to the developer 's faith in that system . )
The sparsebundle is how Time Machine backs up using the network method . The Backups.backupdb method is how it backs up when the drive is hooked up locally therefore you ca n't make it create a sparse bundle if its connected locally because that 's the way time machine works . If you want it to make a sparse bundle you have to backup through a network . It should not make a difference to you since you 'll be accessing it through time machine without having to worry about files etc. .
Yes , that is in fact the purpose of the AirPlay feature . Just plug it to your stereo or active speaker with the jack on the rear . A small " airplay " icon ( see the example on the <URL> ) will appear appear in iTunes or iPhone/iPad when you play music . You can then select whether you want your music on the Airport Express router or on your computer / iDevice .
If you are using an entire drive for time machine backup , I would suggest using <URL> latest version with block-to-block copy . I have seen people use Disk Utility for this but I have n't got this to work .
First of all , all wireless systems use the most power when transmitting , ie actively powering the antenna to upload data . Now , just think of the ranges the different systems have to bridge . WiFi works well for like 30 meters , or 100 meters outdoors . Usually , the nearest cell tower is considerably farther away than those 100 meters , therefore , 3G needs more power than WiFi . Add to this that 3G is capable of opening multiple connections at once , and the fact that 3G autmatically boosts power output on weak signals , 3G needs more power .
Finder has two separate sorting modes in Lion . If you hold option , the View > Arrange By menu turns into Sort By . You can also change the Sort By mode from the view options .
Well , Apple does not recommend leaving your portable plugged in all the time , as for a lithium-based battery , it 's important to keep the electrons in it moving occasionally . MacBook / Pro , though , are designed to deliver up to 1000 full charge and discharge cycles before it reaches 80 % of its original capacity . A charge cycle means using all of the battery 's power , but that does n't necessarily mean a single charge . For instance , you could listen to your iPod for a few hours one day , using half its power , and then recharge it fully . If you did the same thing the next day , it would count as one charge cycle , not two , so you may take several days to complete a cycle . Each time you complete a charge cycle , it diminishes battery capacity slightly . Since 2009-2010 laptops carry a technology called Adaptive Charging which basically is a chip within the battery that talks to its cells monitoring everything from charge level to temperature . The chip relays this information to the computer , which uses an advanced algorithm to determine the optimal charging current . Adaptive Charging reduces the wear and tear on the battery giving it a lifespan of up to 5 years . So , I 'll actually wo n't worry that much about the battery . Just try not to keep it plugged all the time , and remember to do a full charge cycle at least once per month .
end question
start question
Is there any way to let apple know shellshock patch download is broken ?
That DL article works for me on 10.10 - Do you have another browser or computer to do the download ? If not , you might have to go to a friend 's or Apple Store and get help directly from the genius bar . There is no charge for in-store help and you probably can resolve this with a USB stick and a different browser/OS combination . Also , I 've put a <URL> , but you really , really should n't trust internet downloads unless <URL> and are confident it 's as safe as what you 'd get from Apple directly .
I believe that if you make an encrypted backup using iTunes it will include passwords .
Depending on your Mac model and OS X version , you might check out <URL> , a dashboard widget that gives you more control over the sleep/hibernate behavior . This <URL> goes into more detail about what 's going on behind the scenes .
You could do it with a script ... or you could hit CMD+T ab and while holding CMD hit " q " over and over . It will cycle through your apps and quit them one by one pretty quickly .
⇧ + ⌃ + ⏏ puts the display ( only the display , not the whole computer ) to sleep and will then prompt you for a password if you have enabled under . If your Mac does not have an & #x 23CF ; ( eject ) key , you can use ⇧ + ⌃ + ⌽ ( power ) .
I found a project online which i think uses an old WEBKIT renderer . . <URL> gives old versions , but i do n't know which ones you will be able to run on your new machine . For myself , I 'm running 4.0.5 because of the reduced RAM usage .
I believe there is no way for a end-user to do this . All iOS apps will have Application_Home / Documents , Application_Home / Library , Application_Cache folders . All the files stored in these folders should be managed by application itself . So , it 's true that you ca n't do this without jail breaking .
Not possible.I have non-Apple earphones with a mini remote with three buttons - the central one being the one to be double-pressed . I have turned the Internet upside down and have n't found anything close to this , even on jailbreak ( my ipod touch is jailbroken ) .
The Dock process on OS X is responsible for more than just the actual Dock on your screen . It does a bunch of background stuff , including Dashboard . Most notably , the Finder wo n't function properly if the Dock process is n't running , so turning it off completely is pretty much a no-go without breaking OS X in the process . The best I can suggest is keeping the dock hidden , and make the size as small as possible so you 're less likely to trigger it . You can also position it where it 's least likely to get in the way - as you probably know , you can put it on the left , right or bottom of your screen . But you can also pin it to a particular corner , just use the command . Type that command in Terminal ( replace with to change which corner it goes in , or to go back to the default ) , then to restart the Dock and apply the change .
Sorry , no . There are some PCs and motherboards coming out now that support Thunderbolt , but because of how Thunderbolt works , it 's not something that can be added on later to something that did n't initially support it .
You could use the file transfer application <URL> to connect to the Linux server , using your ssh credentials , and then thanks to <URL> you can preview your images and many other file types without explicitly copying them , altough you are in effect downloading the data to have the preview .
I think not , only by using a hardware keyboard or via copy/paste from another doc or an app like Unicode Maps . You might be able to make a custom layout as well with Unicode Maps . Also have a look at Keyman .
That is not possible . By design there is a mechanical switch inside the headphone jack that will automatically turn off the speakers .
Yes ! I had the same problem . Go to Settings → Music → Sort Albums and change this to By Title .
This does n't appear possible . In order to utilize email functionalities from within apps , you will have to enable the Apple Mail app . I recommend turning off all notifications for Mail if you want to use the Gmail app as your primary iPhone mail client .
It looks like <URL> . Is OS X the backups seems to be stored in the following location ... ... but I do n't think you can change that location .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
An article written by someone else who did that : <URL> The author did get his cracked , but had to borrow a supercomputer to do so even after he got custom software designed to use partial knowledge of the password he had chosen . It shows how hard a general cracking effort would be , but also how choosing a short or known pass phrase makes it practical in some cases to hire an expert to bypass even a good solid encryption scheme .
The package management system used by OS X is rudimentary when compared to Linux counterparts like <URL> or <URL> . Fortunately , basic operations like listing packages and its contents are possible : Everytime a file is installed a <URL> file is stored in . You can either do in that directory or use to list installed packages : To query the file 's contents use : or : See <URL> and <URL> for other options .
Once a keyboard trace has been damaged by water , it 's practically impossible to fix them . You 're better off buying a new keyboard . It 's not the best news , but once a keyboard has been damaged by liquid , there 's very little chance they will work again . For cleaning your keyboard , I 'd recommend isopropyl alcohol pads .
end question
start question
What does no chime on boot mean ?
You do n't specify how old your MBP is , but some MBPs built a few years ago shipped with graphics cards that fatally crashed after a few years of years . That 's what happened to mine and it was a warranty fix because a recall was done . My understanding of the chime is that it is hard-coded into the motherboard . If it is not playing with the chime , then you probably have something wrong down to that level . It may be a simple fix , it may not , but only Apple will be able to tell you definitively . ( Answer edited per comments )
The UI for configuring Google Contact Sync in Address Book and in iTunes is intended to support the same feature . If it is enabled in one place and not enabled in another place , it is a bug in the Apple software . Pre-iCloud , all contact syncing worked through a service called Sync Services . Google Contact Sync is one of the clients of contact syncing via Sync Services , and both Address Book and iTunes provide a user interface for enabling Google Contact Sync .
Mail talks to the mail server to show you messages . Only IMAP accounts can be synchronized as that is a formal way for the server and the mail client on your mac to double check all messages to make sure everything is in sync between the two . Get mail focuses on the Inbox and relies on the Mail app having a " correct " view matching the data on the mail server . Synchronize allows for noise/errors/lost messages , incorrect statuses and other real life bumps and errors . It basically double counts and double checks each and every message to make sure things are 100 % correct . Synchronize also checks all folders recursively to get everything accounted for - not just the subset of folders that are marked as having new mail . Even more " deep cleaning " would be if you told mail to rebuild the account or the mailbox . That means that the local storage that mail uses on your mac has problems getting mail or synchronizing . It 's the last step before deleting the account and starting over to download things cleanly from the server . In a nutshell - synchronize should normally do nothing - but it will fill in any gaps as needed . ( of course it will get new mail as part of a total synchronization - but it 's going to be a lot slower and use more resources on the mac than just asking for new mail )
This <URL> has a <URL> that explains what happens when the PMU is reset . Three things are reset : Speaker volume Screen resolution Startup disk selection After resetting NVRAM or PRAM you may need to reconfigure your settings for speaker volume , screen resolution , startup disk selection , time zone information . and this list ( may not apply to all Macs ) : Another <URL> provides additional information : Some information stored in PRAM includes : Display and video settings such as refresh rate , screen resolution , number of colors Startup volume choice Speaker volume Recent kernel panic information , if any DVD region setting Note : Mac OS X stores your preselected DVD region choice in PRAM for easy access . Resetting PRAM does not allow you to change the DVD region .
Solved - if no partition of the disk has the bootable flag , the disk does not appear at the boot screen . In my tests , if the partition that has the bootable flag has been formatted with command ( without options ) using mkfs.vfat versions 3.0.14 or 3.0.17 , the disk appears at boot , but , when the disk is selected , the bootloader is not run . Instead , the message " This is not a bootable disk " is printed . The partition that is flagged as bootable does not have to be the one that contains the bootloader configuration files , and it may have MBR partition type 83 and/or ext4 or btrfs filesystem .
You will need to edit the rEFIt configuration file . Since version 0.14 , the configuration file has supported adding a default boot selection , as documented in the <URL> . However , there is n't very clear documentation on how exactly to do this on rEFIt 's website . You could just open the conf file , or view the default on their SVN repo <URL> . This <URL> does have an example and some documentation that I 've used before in a similar situation . You 'll want to use the digit option instead of the OS type option ( 1-N , vs L , W , M ) .
Not right now , but the feature is coming back in a future release within the next six months . Apple has documented the missing features in iWork '13 in a new KB titled <URL> , where auto-complete for Numbers is listed as one of the features that will be re-introduced . The new iWork applications -- Pages , Numbers , and Keynote -- were released for Mac on October 22nd . These applications were rewritten from the ground up to be fully 64-bit and to support a unified file format between OS X and iOS 7 versions , as well as iWork for iCloud beta . These apps feature an all-new design with an intelligent format panel and many new features such as easy ways to share documents , Apple-designed styles for objects , interactive charts , new templates , and new animations in Keynote . In rewriting these applications , some features from iWork ’09 were not available for the initial release . We plan to reintroduce some of these features in the next few releases and will continue to add brand new features on an ongoing basis . Some features in upcoming releases in the next 6 months Numbers Customize toolbar Improvements to zoom and window placement Multi-column and range sort Auto-complete text in cells Page headers and footers Improvements to AppleScript support Last Modified : Nov 6 , 2013
When Steve Jobs first introduced the iMac in 1998 , he proclaimed that the i stood for Internet . Jobs went on to say , " i also means some other things to us " and displayed a presentation slide with the keywords : internet individual instruct inform inspire You can even view <URL> . The " i " was first used on the iBook and iMac . These were produced as Steve Jobs wanted a pro and consumer model of a desktop and portable computer . This later rolled out with more products , iSight , iPod , iPhone , iPad . Yes the products are trademarked , but using an " i " itself before a product is not trademarked and it can not be . Here is <URL>
There is no hardware virtualization to turn on or off like on Wintel PCs . That switch and many other BIOS switches are there because ( at least in part ) the hardware manufacturers do n't make the hardware AND software , like Apple does . It is always on in any Mac that has a processor that supports virtualization . Pretty much any Mac in the last several years does so you are good to go with this one .
It accumulates all the CPU time for input/output ( i/o ) processing delays and calculations as well as scheduling of processes and threads . If you watch it after a reboot you will see it starts with minimal RAM and CPU needs and instead grows only when other programs run and need the system services . To slim it down , shut off unneeded ports ( WiFi , bluetooth , etc. . . ) as well as idle / unused programs . If things do n't settle down , consider rebooting to ensure no task is stuck or leaking memory . If you have programs doing real work , they will cause the kernel to use both memory and processor time - just watch as you start things to see which other programs are causing this behavior . It 's rarely an issue with the kernel - even with badly performing programs - that ca n't be solved by logging out and back in again . The kernel_task cleans up well and generally takes care to only use the resources needed by the workload .
Formatting a partition with Disk Utility on OS X and letting the Ubuntu installer do the rest of the work is a simple and straightforward approach . The Ubuntu installer also takes care of configuring and installing the bootloader . Theoretically , you could boot Linux with only Grub-EFI , as the Linux kernel supports <URL> . But this requires a lot on work on Macs , because you need to configure and install grub-efi . See also this <URL> . So i recommend using rEFIt or rEFInd in order to boot Linux on a Mac .
Bootcamp is a tool for installing Windows on the same drive with your OS X . If you want to have Windows on a USB , then boot from your Windows installation cd and install Windows on the USB . Then whenever you want to boot into Windows , plug your USB , hit alt/option and select Windows as your boot disc . It may be better though , if you find a ready/made Windows USB Edition . Either way , it will work :) Edit : After your first boot into Windows , do not forget to insert the Mac OS X Installation disc , in order to install the Windows/Bootcamp drivers !
Easily spoken , you could say ispw files are not complete . They 're missing that so-called signature . It 's like a contract ; it has no value without the signature . Every time you install new firmware on the iPhone , iTunes calls to the Apple servers and ask for that approval signature . For numerous reasons , Apple does n't give out those signatures for older firmware versions . There 's not much you can do . The only thing you can do is downgrading to 8.4.1 and hope one day somebody releases the jailbreak for it . But for now , you 're stucked .
If you setup your Gmail account as IMAP , it is not pushed . If you setup your Gmail account as an Exchange account , then it will be . The instructions on how to do this are found on <URL> . Hope this helps .
Note that that article was based on the incorrect rumour of a 1704x960 display . The original iPhone display before the 4 had a pixel density of 163 ppi , the old retina displays doubled both horizontal and vertical resolutions to have a pixel density of 326 ppi . To keep the interfaces of apps without retina support the same size , each old size pixel is represented as 4 retina size pixels , in a 2x2 square . The iPhone 5 maintained the same pixel density , but got larger in one dimension , and what the article is talking about was the hypothesis that the iPhone 6 would have the same aspect ratio as the 5 , but increasing the resolution in each direction by 1/2 in a 1704x960 display . Assuming the display was the same physical size as the iPhone 5 , that would give a pixel density 3 times that of the original iPhones , thus " 3x " . So assuming one had ancient assets from a 1x display , a 3x display would need to use a 3x3 grid of its pixels per single asset pixel to keep the same size . The article is just showing that unlike the jump from the original assets to retina assets , the quality of interpolating assets from 2x to 3x is n't anywhere near as bad as from 1x to 2x as the resolution change is smaller . As it turns out , the actual specs of the 6 and 6 Plus are completely different . The 6 has the same pixel density as the 5 but the screen is a bit bigger . The 6 Plus is both larger and somewhat higher density , though not what " 3x " would imply . I 'm not sure how the new phones would handle old assets . Neither of them are related by a simple ratio like the move from the old iPhone to retina . The aspect ratios are almost the same though , so I 'm guessing old apps will default to filling the screen with some kind of interpolation . update : I just found a relevant post here : <URL> it seems that the way this is going to be handled on the 6 Plus is to use 3x assets which are then downscaled for the screen .
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
This is the iCloud Mail service . Turning it on provides the iCloud mail account for Mail.app to use , nothing more . It is basically an automated method of entering the iCloud mail server information into Mail.app to configure your @icloud . com email account , per this Apple KB article : <URL> It does not sync other accounts in any way - settings or emails of other accounts are not affected by this setting , just your @icloud . com or @me . com account . You can read more about iCloud Mail at this Apple KB article : <URL>
No , Time Machine does not do this . The only reliable way to back up your BootCamp partition is to boot into Windows and run Windows-compatible disk backup software from within Windows , to back up to a separate external hard drive formatted with NTFS . Winclone has not been updated in a long time and is not a useful solution .
When you are using Windows and you open an application like MS Word or Adobe Photoshop , it will open up the application window with some sort of empty background . When you do this on a Mac however , there is no background , there is simply the menu options in the very top bar . So say you had a file open in Photoshop in Windows and you closed that file , you would see the same blank application window that you saw when you started up Photoshop . On a Mac , you will see the menu in the top bar , but again , since there is no background you simply see the desktop . So really , there is no difference in the way that Windows and Mac OS X handle the applications , other than one had a visible window and the other does n't . The benefit of doing it the OS X way : If you DO plan on keeping the application open , it keeps you from having to minimize the app like you would in windows . All you have to do it click on something else in the background and it will make the applciation lose focus . To close it , simply right click on the application icon in the dock and choose ' Quit ' .
These are for decreasing and increasing the brightness of the keyboard backlight . When the system senses low light and the keyboard is allowed to illuminate , the keys will work . Otherwise , they silently do nothing at all .
end question
start question
Is it possible to update a jailbroken iOS 7 to a version Apple has stopped signing ?
Nope . It 's impossible to upgrade iOS firmware without connecting to the Apple servers . Currently , there is a jailbreak for iOS 8.1 using <URL> which is being signed at the moment . iOS 8.1.1 update which is due in a few weeks will patch the jailbreak . It could be the right moment to upgrade your iOS version and re-jailbreak it . <URL> that the current iOS 8 jailbreak is stable .
Have you checked out pkgbackup on cydia ? It has worked for me .
Only the iPhone 5C has any theme support , in that they contain custom wallpaper to match the colour of the device which is selected as a default when first using the device . This themeing does not extend into apps , and is simply a pre-chosen wallpaper . It has no relevance for any other phone model , or iPad .
No , this is not possible since iBooks does not support bulk importing of content from other applications on an iOS device . The three ways to add books to iBooks are : Purchase from the iBooks store and download Sync books through iTunes Send a single book ( not several ) from another application on the iOS device with the Open In ... iBooks option Also , iBooks does not have the concept of folders and folder hierarchies . It does have Collections , but there is no way to map folders to Collections from iTunes or any other source .
Your probably best of if you crop the photos yourself . Here are the pixel counts that work best for each screen size : iOS devices : display sizes 320 × 480 pixels : iPhone ( 1st generation ) , iPhone 3G , iPhone 3GS , iPod touch ( 1st -- 3rd generation ) 640 × 960 pixels : iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod touch ( 4th generation ) 640 × 1136 pixels : iPhone 5/5s/5c , iPod touch ( 5th generation ) Retina display 1024 × 768 pixels : iPad , iPad 2 , iPad mini ( non-retina ) 2048 × 1536 pixels : iPad Air , retina iPad mini and iPad ( 3rd -- 4th generation ) , all of which have Retina display Automate resizing using Automator Automator let 's you easily crop images . See my screenshot below for explanation and just click the actions together . You can automate resizing the photos with Automator , if you do n't demand to choose an extract of your photo . <URL> Rember to use " crop images " with " scale before crop : Scale to Short Side " : After finishing your workflow you could add a thousands images and let your Mac do the work . You will be prompted to select your images ( see first action ) . Just adapt the sizes for your corresponding device . You could also merge this into one workflow . Just duplicate the last three steps and change the suffix ( ) in action " Add text " . Here is an example image * went through my Automator workflow . Original : <URL> Result : <URL> Resizing using an application You could use the free app <URL> from the Mac App Store . This let 's you choose an image extract . The maker of another app ( <URL> ) documents the sub-pixel shifts that parallax changes can have at <URL> I hope my answer helps you with your problem concerning your image size and how to resize them . Unfortunately , I do not see an option to set a background image in Apple Configurator ( Version 3.5 ( 289 ) ) . * image by interfacelift.com
Yes , restarts are possible . Hold the home button and the lock button until the Apple logo is displayed.Switching it off &amp; on is the same as restarting .
It is recommended to update your Jailbroken iOS device by doing full restore form iTunes . In order to preserve your apps , contacts etc. perform a backup in iTunes by right clicking on your device and selecting option .
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
1 . If you have iCloud Keychain enabled : Are my existing saved passwords , Wi-Fi networks , and Internet accounts included in iCloud Keychain ? Yes . When you turn on iCloud Keychain , any previously-saved website usernames and passwords , Wi-Fi networks , and Internet accounts are automatically included in iCloud Keychain . From : <URL> You can access to Keychain by the Keychain Access.app ( located in / Applications/Utilities / ) . 2 . Otherwise you can use 1Password . 3 . Finally , you have this post : <URL> Unfortunately , on the iPhone it is not possible to access this information . The passwords are kept on your phone in a safe place that is not accessible through any regular means on the phone . This is done for your protection , if you were to lose your iPhone and someone picked it up , the passwords that are stored on it would be up for grabs . This would lead to a lot of security problems .
No , if it was not originally purchased/downloaded from the Apple App Store , you will not find it in the Purchased section . Usually , enterprise apps are distributed from that company 's ' app store ' only . If they are deleted from your iOS device , you can revisit the company app store and re-download the app again . It 's up to that company if they want to have a Purchased tab or some other way of seeing previously downloaded apps .
Chances are you installed the certificate that was required by your employers network . For example at my work place we have 802.1 x authentication on our Wifi , basically users log in with their normal username and passwords instead of a pre-shared Wifi key . When they log in they must accept a certificate from our servers . This does n't necessarily mean that your employer can see your encrypted traffic , however it is very possible . It depends what kind of infrastructure your employer has , i.e. do they have a system that does SSL inspection ? You wo n't know unless someone in IT tells you . You can view the installed certificates through Keychain Access ( Finder -- > Utilities -- > Keychain Access ) . For my 802.1 x Wifi there is a certificate in the ' Certificates ' section at the very bottom of the left column ( not the My Certificates ) . Never-the-less you will be able to see all installed Certificated here .
Devs still have to upgrade through iTunes , Xcode only lets you put other apps on your phone . So no , there really is n't another way .
As far as I 'm aware , if you make a full backup through iTunes , do the upgrade , and restore your data , you will retain the valid apps ' data only .
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
The app wo n't get rejected . Apple do n't browse the source of your app -- they 're testing the functionality from a user 's point of view . Private API detection is left to iTunes Connect . You should still try to remove unused code from your app to make the app as small as possible for users .
Did you have Find My iPad activated via the iCloud settings on your iPad ? If so , then you will be able to do any of the following on your iPad : locate it on a map send a message to it play a sound on it remotely lock it remotely wipe it Just for the record , when you enable iCloud , options 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 above are automatically enabled . If you have Location Services turned on , Find My iPad can also help you locate your iPad on a map as long as it 's connected to the Internet . If you had this activated , or are n't sure if you did , then follow these steps : use the Find My iPhone app on an iPhone or another iPad or visit <URL> from a computer with a web browser . Log in to your iCloud account ( this may or may not be the same as your usual Apple ID ) . Once you 're logged in , see if your missing iPad is listed under My Devices . If it 's listed , then that means it 's been set up for Find My iPad ( a good sign ) . Now , if it 's currently connected to the internet , you have two possibilities : if you had location services activated on the iPad , you should see its location come up . Clicking/tapping on the icon will display the Actions option and tapping on this will give you the following three choices : Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . if you did n't have location services activated on the iPad , it will display a message like " Online , no location available " . In this case , clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will give you the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . If it 's not connected , it will display as being " Offline " . Clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will also display the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . Select the option you want . For the benefit of others , there are other services to achieve what you want . However , all of these involve installing third party software on the device ( and since you 're asking the question it 's safe to assume you have n't done this ) . Regardless of whether you have Find My iPad activated , this would be a good time to reset your passwords for any online services , email addresses , etc. . However , in doing so , you would be best to change your email passwords first to minimise the risk of any password reset info being intercepted on the iPad .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
Go for it ! You 'll lose the jail break ( duh ! ) but it 'll restore to a normal state like any other iPhone .
Yep . You can have your Apple TV learn the remote codes of any IR remote by going to Settings > General > Remotes . It will then ask you to hit buttons on your new remote corresponding to what it shows on screen . Full instructions can be found at Apple 's site : <URL>
Instead of your specific recent documents search , you might also like this alternative : This adds a recent items stacks to your Dock that has customizabile viewing options ( grid/fan/list / automatic ) like one is used to . The right-click menu gives you the option to choose between recent applications/documents/servers and favorite volumes/items .
end question
start question
What 's the best way to import DVD into iMovie 11 ?
Not really , you 've utilised the quickest , easiest and cheapest route available with doing it with Handbrake . Do n't bother trying to find another piece of software that will do the job better , Handbrake is really the best when it comes to ripping and encoding Apple friendly formats . Thanks , hope this helps .
I think it depends on how many tools/libraries you need to install . If just git then use Xcode 4 which you will need for any port package . If you are doing pure HTML/Javascripy/CSS then the git installer will work . For python and perl and similar interpreters the the language install tools can be used unless there are complex C/C + + libraries If only a few others then build into / usr/local However if you have several things to install or there are complex dependencies then I would use a ports package like Fink , macports or homebrew ( which is best is debatable and should be a separate discussion )
I 've used both , bought Versions in the end . They were both about equal in my use cases . What really helped was adding <URL> to my tool box and using it for diffs instead of the XCode diff engine or the simple diff engine in Versions .
Apple has just issued an update to iDVD to make it more stable , and help with importing from iPhoto . With any luck , it will solve this . Get it through Software Update , or from <URL> .
Sure - all macs support network boot . You might look at Deploy Studio for help in setting up a server that can network boot images stored on the remote machine . Borrowing a USB drive or another mac in target mode with a working DVD might be faster - but with a little set up - network booting is very doable .
Well , in my point of view , if the app works 75 % of the time playing AVI files , I would try to contact the developer directly , there might be something required ( like a plug-in ) or a bug that needs fixing . Like it says in the FAQ , if contacting the developer produces no result , then I guess you could ask for a refund . I have heard that they gave refunds to people who were unhappy before , but it was a last-resort solution if I remember correctly . Also , I presume the App store staff will fight for you more if you paid 100 $ for your app , and a little less if you only paid a buck ... :-)
Open the video file in Quicktime player and then go edit > Trim or command + T and you can trim the video in the editor . Save the video and you 're good to go .
The joining clips function in iMovie 10 is located under the " Modify " menu . YouTube video tutorial I made about how to join clips in iMovie 10 : <URL>
If you want an exact copy of the TC drive , the fastest way is to connect the USB drive directly to the TC and use the archiving option in : Other things to consider : Transfering data over wire ( ethernet ) is faster than over Wi-Fi Connecting the USB drive directly to the computer ( than to the TC ) gives better results if you use the Finder to copy data .
Well , this is one of those things where there 's 101 ways to do it and it 's just trial and error to see which works best for you . You could try wired connections using an HDMI cable or composite AV from your iphone to your TV , or there 's a variety of aftermarket apps that may work better for you . I 've detailed some ideas below : Connect With HDMI You 'll need to purchase <URL> for this option . Plug the adapter into your device 's 30-pin iPod connector . Plug one end of an HDMI cable into the HDMI port of the adapter , and the other end into an available HDMI port on your TV . Switch your TV to the appropriate HDMI input . For earlier models such as the iPhone 4 , the original iPad , or the fourth-generation iPod Touch , the display wo n't be mirrored , but it will show photos and videos in supported apps once you start playing them on the device . Connect With Composite AV If your TV does n't support HDMI , or if it does n't have an available connection , you can link your device to the set through an analog connection , using an <URL> . Plug the adapter into your device 's 30-pin iPod connector . Plug the yellow video cable at the end of the adapter into an available analog video port on your TV . Plug the red and white audio cables at the end of the adapter into the red and white audio ports corresponding to the yellow video input on your TV . Tune your TV to the appropriate composite video input . The display wo n't be mirrored , but it will show photos and videos in supported apps once you start playing them on the device . Connect Wirelessly via Airplay Apple developed a wireless technology called AirPlay specifically for streaming content from iOS devices to other devices that support it . Make sure that your iPhone is on the same wireless network as your other AirPlay devices . On your iPhone , double-tap the Home button . Swipe the list that appears to the right , until you get to the volume and AirPlay settings . Tap the AirPlay button to bring up a list of supported AirPlay devices on your network . Tap the device to which you would like to stream . A TV icon next to the device indicates that you can stream images , video , and/or audio , while a speaker icon indicates that you can stream only audio . Connect Wirelessly via DLNA If you do n't want to shell out for an AirPlay-capable device , you may be able to use DLNA instead . These days , many modern TVs support streaming from a local network ( wired or wireless ) via the DLNA ( Digital Living Network Alliance ) standard . If your TV supports DLNA ( or sometimes just " UPnP " ) streaming , you can use your iPhone as a DLNA server . Just download and install a DLNA-server app -- <URL> , for example -- and you 're good to go . Connect Wirelessly with Aftermarket Apps You could try <URL> or <URL> as alternatives to the standard airplay functionality .
I have an external hard disk connected to an AirPort Extreme . Time Machine wirelessly backs up my MacBook Pro to it . In this regard , it works the same as TimeCapsule but as the hard disk is external ( and you get to choose it ) , it does n't suffer from the same reliability problems . I 've found the AirPort Extreme to be a very good Wireless Access Point , too ( and not just for Apple devices ) .
The weight of data ( in gigs ) does n't really matter with iPhoto . That 's just file storage . If you have a large HD with plenty of free space ( 30 % + and never less than 10 % ) , it really does n't matter . iPhoto used to be rated for 250,000 items in the library , but in the most recent update it has the same format as Aperture , and that is effectively unlimited . As to how well iPhoto scales : pretty well . I have a 40k plus library that opens in a couple of seconds . I 've worked on Libraries in excess of 100k items and while longer to launch ( one was almost a minute ) it worked fine once open . You can easily have multiple libraries : Hold down Option while launching iPhoto , and from the resulting menu select Create Library . Bear in mind that only one can be opened / searched / accessed at a time . Again , unless you 're getting very large indeed , I would avoid them . Upgrading to Aperture is simple . Install it . Open the Library . Done .
To give it a full fresh and clean and welcome experience I would suggest you remove all stuff accumulated over time including all non apple aps . To do that you can erase all the information from hard drive and simply reinstall the OS X. Apple 's knowledge base article has the steps : <URL> . On most computers , the erase and install takes 30 minutes plus how ever long it takes to download the installer package from Apple 's servers . That part is about a 4 GB download if you have n't saved it and follow the above instructions .
Looking at your data - your storage has to be performing horribly . SSD HD : 245/249 .77 GB Used To fix this : Make a bootable backup and test it ( or make sure your Time Machine or off-site backup is solid and you know how to restore / how long that will take ) Make a new user account Delete your main user account and let the Users &amp; Groups preference pane delete all your user files . Boot the mac into recovery and run disk utility to check the directory structure and most importantly - allow the unused blocks to be trimmed . ( alternatively you could boot into single user mode and run fsck on the unmounted volume . That trims unused blocks equally well ) Once that is done , start up the Mac and log in to your new test account . Collect timing statistics on what you wish to benchmark . Make sure you have repeatable numbers ( maybe run 5 tests - see if you have to discard high/low values - if so , better to make 10 measurements ) . Now that you have a solid benchmark of how the software performs with enough space on the drive to arrange the storage efficiently and for rapid read/write performance , you can contemplate moving back some or all of your user files from your backup . I like to keep 50 GB or 10 % of free space on my SSD - whichever is the larger amount for maximum performance . Any less than 6 GB free + size of RAM is a danger zone and means I am sacrificing serious speed to have the drive that full . Get a <URL> , or <URL> or spinning HDD to hold your large files and you will probably have to do nothing else to speed up your Mac .
Developer of <URL> here . Yes , there 's a very easy way : ⌘ + L ( That 's " Command - L " ) That will temporarily " show " the toolbar ( if it was hidden ) , and select all the text in the URL location field . From there you can copy it , via ⌘ + C. Then , to hide the toolbar , you can press : ⎋ esc ( That 's " Escape " ) If the toolbar was previously hidden , this will hide the toolbar .
I think you should consider your possibilities . The iOS iMovie version is greatly limited in capacity , not to mention disk space , compared to its sister application . You can share ' projects ' via <URL> , however I use that term loosely . Going back to practicality , if you share a complete project and sync it to your mobile device and lets say this mobile device only has 16GB HDD and you only have a 5GB iCloud storage locker than you will quickly run out of room in easily half of 1 project . With that being said , going back to the mobile devices capabilities , it does n't have all the features your desktop version has so some things get lost in translation , you may lose a transition you set prior , etc. . However , it is a resource to share projects nonetheless . Additionally , the main draw back of iMovie Theater is that it does n't share the PROJECT thats why I was using that term ' loosely ' , it shares the entire project movie with it 's components ( i.e. , background music etc ) that you have created thus far or the selection of the project you dictate . Theoretically , you can download the iMovie project from the theatre to your device and create a new project on your iPhone where you can add clips and edit there . But you wo n't be able to edit the properties in the previous project . What I recommend you doing if your going full scale with this , two of the better options I would recommend is : Get a Time Capsule , you can set it up to wake over WLAN and essentially use it as both a router and external HDD which files you can access from anywhere . Although , this is n't an iOS friendly option , it 's a logical option , because why waste your time creating on an iOS when the features are limited and the projects are decapitated from your devices hardware . Dropbox , Box , Google Drive etc etc etc. . Use a file sharing cloud service to where you can simply save the project there from the get go and edit through that file instead of any of your devices HDD ( unless your planning on doing some high processing features in FCPX with rendering etc ) then that is a viable option . Do n't use iMovie . It 's great and all , but look at its target audience , it 's meant for the people that do n't have much expertise or the attention span to sit and edit videos , it 's one-click and done type editing . Just get a laptop and save yourself a lot of heartache . But to answer your question specifically and without bias , then NO , in regards to iMovie Mac and iMovie iOS you can not sync projects where full functionality is retained .
The best , or , most commonly used method for transcoding DVDs and DivX files to an iPod would be <URL> . Handbrake has presets for almost all current iDevices . I 'd start by reading the Handbrake <URL> and selecting iPod Touch from the destination presets ( image on Stage 2 from the guide ) and adjusting select a target bit rate of 700ish for a device with that small of a screen . If you 're interested in scripting out the process to save time Handbrake has a great CLI and <URL> that would streamline the process . Another popular solution would be <URL> .
What you are looking for is <URL> . It will allow you to run an app continuously ( auto-start at boot , relaunch when it quits/crash ) To use it add a file in Then load it once with The option will launch the application the first time launchctl runs this . The option will re-launch the application if it crashes . The will run it at a certain time . Presumably this is mutually exclusive with the previous two , but is included to show what can be done with launchd Launchctl will run this after reboots .
To import audio files into Garageband for iOS , connect your iOS device to your computer . Then do the following : On your computer : Open iTunes Click your device in the left-hand column Click " Apps " in the bar at the top of the right-hand pane Under " File Sharing " select " Garageband " in the " Apps " column Click " Add ... " in the bottom-right of the " GarageBand Documents " area In the dialog that opens up , select the file ( s ) you want to transfer over Once you 've selected the file ( s ) , it transfers over to your iOS device . On your iOS device : Open GarageBand If you 're not already , switch to the multi-track view by tapping the button In the upper right-hand area , you should see a loop icon with the number of newly transferred files on top of it , like this : Tap this icon . It brings up a screen like this : Just like the screen says , you can tap and hold and drag the desired audio files into your track listings . They each appear as Audio Recorder tracks : That 's it ! There is one caveat : GarageBand for iOS is limited to a maximum of 320 " bars " for the length of a project , and it does not appear that it 's possible to bypass this . If you need to edit audio that 's longer than that , you will need to use another app .
There are no special steps . Install it using the installer just like you did on your old Mac . When prompted for the activation key , select " activate by phone " and input nothing , keep trying and it should provide a number to call . Microsoft ( unlike Adobe ) does not have an automated system for licence deactivation . This has been a point of great angst among Mac users as it requires them to call Microsoft each and every time they move the Office application from one machine to another . I believe the number in the US is : +1 (800) 936-5700 . Your product support number may vary . <URL> on activation and product key information .
end question
start question
How to set read-only dmg background picture in Mountain Lion ?
So , I FINALLY figured it out ... Instead of deleting the rw disk image , it is enough to rename it .
From the Messages app section of the Apple Mountain Lion <URL> : Turn on read receipts , and they 'll see when you 've read a message . According to this <URL> , you can send read receipts in the Message app by following these steps : Open Preferences in iMessage , and select the " Accounts " tab Select the Message account from the left Check the box next to " Send Read Receipts " to enable Close out of iMessage Preferences Screenshot from this post : I can confirm the presence of the checkbox on my own Mac .
Select the photos you want to set a date for . In the menu , select Photos > Batch Change , then select date from the dialog pop-up .
Starting in Lion , Apple added a command to Font Book . Open Font Book and choose :
As the GMail app is a third party app not built by Apple , it is not allowed to run in the background to check for mails . So closing the app stops it from checking for mails . However , it probably will still get notifications about new mails pushed from Google 's server . But this notification is not initiated from your phone . You can switch off notifications for the gmail app in the iPhones settings.app under notifications .
A DMG can be set to display a license agreement before it will allow you to open it . This is normal and nothing to be alarmed about . Once you accept the license agreement , it will mount and open the normal Finder window showing its contents . See <URL> . There is no way to disable it and nothing is being auto-run .
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
Apple decided not to include X11 in Mountain Lion : <URL> But there is now a native version of GIMP for mountain lion which requires no X11 : <URL> However , if you need to run the old version of GIMP you can download <URL> as mentioned in the apple support document linked above . When you try to run GIMP again , you can find Xquartz in Enjoy GIMP !
In the new Contacts Application for Mountain Lion there are no buttons for group management , only menu items . Under the File Menu , there are , , and menu items . When you have a group selected , under the Edit menu there will be a menu item available . To be able to select groups , you need to be in the proper view under the View menu : .
First of all , make sure you have added your systems knows about your Apple ID ( go to System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups - > Your User - > Apple ID ) . Then launch Chess ; obviously you 'll need to have an internet connection . After a short wait ( a second or two in my case , might depend on your internet connection ) , a badge like the following should appear in the Chess window : After it appears , you should simply be able to go to Game - > New ... and select GameCenter Match in Players .
Any user on your machine would be able to read the files . People on the local network can only read from the places you have set up in Sharing preferences ( under file sharing ) .
See screenshot . Change the radio button for to . To access this screen , go to .
It is possible . Just hold down the Command ⌘ button and drag the Picture in Picture window anywhere you desire .
When a newer Mac migrates data from an older OS , the system has upgrade scripts to make sure that the data lands properly on the new system . These scripts handle all Apple software and perhaps a few high profile programs in case that Apple has found a need to clean up other data . Migration the other way is n't tested , no scripts or support is provided and in fact , the system normally detects you are moving data backwards and refuses to restore in the first place . You should be fine restoring a Lion backup onto any Mac with Mountain Lion . You do n't need to reinstall anything - just do n't run the Setup Assistant until you have the external drive and can move everything to the new mac . Running an older OS on a newer Mac is also problematic , since often drivers are missing and again , Lion will check and refuse to install on hardware that is too new in general .
Regrettably I do n't believe this is possible . As you 've probably noticed , there are no user-accessible options for this in System Preferences ' Keyboard Shortcuts . As far as I can determine , there are n't any scriptable interfaces either ( plists , Applescript ) . Options for building your own program seem to be pretty limited as well , according to <URL> I found . The most you seem to be able to do programmatically is <URL> . The only way to possibly do this without some serious OS X hacking is to use something like <URL> to do some GUI scripting to do the dragging for you . However GUI scripting is always a bit messy , and you 'd need to account for the changing positions of the desktops , depending on how many are open , etc. . I suspect that 's not exactly what you were looking for , but it 's probably the closest you 'll get , unless someone finds something I did n't . Sorry .
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
The situation is actually <URL> than some references make it seem . As <URL> : If you enabled DHCP ( only ) in Server Admin in Lion Server , your configuration will be preserved when you upgrade or migrate to OS X Server ( Mountain Lion ) . Moreover , the Server app now provides a ( very limited , but sufficient ) user interface for controlling DHCP .
You can <URL> and enter your product key in the Setup Assistant . If you also lost your product key , you 'll probably need to <URL> . You can find info about replacing your DVD at this <URL> .
Back up your data . Boot into the Recovery System by holding ⌘ + R during early boot . Select Disk Utility and format your drive where OS X and your files were stored on . Quit Disk Utility and select " Install Mountain Lion " .
Removing CSS3 blur filters seemed to fix the issue . I just went through almost every single file and line until Safari 6.0.2 stopped crashing . Nevertheless , I still have no idea why a single line of CSS3 , , was causing these unexpected crashed .
end question
start question
How long before Standby/Deep sleep mode is activated ?
You can list some power management settings with ( get ) . The default was 4200 seconds ( 70 minutes ) on my MacBook Air . According to <URL> , " the standby mode activates after just over an hour of " regular " sleep " .
Have you seen <URL> ? I 'm not sure if there is a way to hide the toolbar in Chrome , but the <URL> might be the last step you need for navigating using only the keyboard .
A long uptime is four days ? My MBP has uptimes of weeks . Not as snappy ? I guess you 're running out of memory or something else is wrong . I 've never had this issue where the machine is not as responsive after closing the lid as opposed to rebooting . I generally only reboot because of WiFi connection problems or software updates . To answer your question - just close the lid . Only reboot when necessary . When closing the lid it goes into a sleep state which I think is very nice because when you open the lid it is almost instantly awake and ready to be used . While if you power it off it will take some moments to be booted . You could leave the lid open as well if you like . The fist thing that is probably is gon na fail is the battery . To keep that in good condition make sure you keep your battery charged ( there are other topics about this how to do this and what is the best ) . In the end , the machine is built to be used and you should just enjoy using it without thinking to much about what is best . Apple already has that done for you :) .
You can save the whole iTunes folder ( it should be at . . / Music/iTunes directory ) and just put it back after you reinstall iTunes on your new Windows system ( new iTunes installation will put it 's new " blank " folder in / Music , just replace with your backup copy ) . By doing so iDevices will recognise your library as the one they had synced with before and will continue to sync with it like nothing happened , hence keeping all the saves on the devices .
The following article may help your problem . :) <URL> : By default , Mac OS X will simply give you a shell when you perform a Single User Mode startup . However , you can force OS X to ask for a password in order to gain shell access . To do so , vi the / etc/ttys and change secure to insecure . Once you have done so , create a password in / etc/master . passwd for root .
Click the minimize/maximize button a second time or press Control-Command-F simultaneously . The button can be green or grey depending on how you have configured the appearance under the General pane of System Preferences . To resize window , simply double-click window bar . The best way to do this that I have found is to put the cursor in the upper left hand corner and wait a second . The green button reappears ( you also get the top bar back in case you want to do other things than change the view . ) and you can click on it to get back to normal view .
<URL> that provides a really good run down on what HDR is and how it performs on the iPhone . Basically it takes three photos at various exposure levels and combines them . So you get a " normal " photo at regular exposure levels and the HDR version ( 1 photo composed of the three ) . Results vary depending on light conditions etc. . I 've had some really great results and some shockers .
just a guess : As in the App Store app a session is 15min , I would asume that a session in Find My Friends is also 15 min . If you configured your phone to be locked ( need to enter a pin after swipe to unlock ) , then you do n't need to enter a password at all in find my friends [ read somewhere , never tested myself ] .
Nope , this is not possible . Target display mode only works if both machine are in macOS , as mentioned in the Apple KB article <URL> . If your iMac is currently started up in Windows , it wo n't enter Target Display Mode . Target Display Mode is n't supported in Boot Camp .
Boot to Recovery HD or internet recovery since the Disk Management Framework is n't loaded in single user mode : If you run into more problems - and and their repair variants might help to get at the underlying error condition on your volume .
The theory behind it is that it gets a lot more battery life when in deep sleep/hibernation than otherwise . Apple says after about an hour the computer should go into deep sleep . See <URL> for further information and how to disable it . ( The actual disabling instructions are in the question itself . )
Here is what you can do , on at least iOS 9 . Launch Notes on your iPhone or iPad While on the list of notes , enter Edit - mode . Select all of the Notes Tap on " Move to target . . " ( Might not be accurate translation ) Select " iCloud Notes " That 's all .
You can save all the app data to migrate to another iOS device at a later date by backing the iPhone up to iTunes or setting up a free iCloud account . This will nicely complement your existing plan in case you forget something until after you turn in the phone . You can restore your backup on to a friend 's device long enough to retrieve that additional data and then erase the device . As long as you maintain the iTunes backup on the computer or iCloud access - your backup will be waiting until you get another iOS device to load the backup . Here are some other apps you may have used occasionally and want to transfer to your Mac : voice memos can be imported to iTunes call history , SMS messages and voicemail ( using an app like <URL> ) If you have a good backup , you can feel better about having the phone erase all content and settings so you give it back clean and with no personal data just in case your company does n't do a great job sanitizing the device before re-issuing it to someone else .
Yes , apps can be In Review for a number of days , regardless of whether it is a TestFlight app . For what it 's worth , I currently have an app with a status of In Review which has been in this state for over 7 days ( excluding Waiting for Review time ) .
About 40 minutes or so . I 'm assuming a 5400RPM drive , 7200RPM or an SSD would be faster , obviously .
Looks like I fixed it . The problem was , that I divided my disk onto three logical disks . And system was confused , which one to be used for booting . When I chose Startup Disk in System preferences ( even though there was only one option ) the laptop wakes up normally . ( I had no problems during three days )
Based on your updated question , the answer is no ; there 's not a standard , built-into iOS way to go to the end of a file . Individual apps are able to create custom gestures or menu commands to perform that function , so it might exist in specific apps but there 's no standard way that works with every app .
After a quick search I found this information : If you 're in Windows , you can switch to the Mac OS X partition using the Boot Camp icon in the System Tray . Click the gray diamond-shaped icon , and click " Restart in Mac OS " from the pop-up menu . Then , confirm your choice to reboot to Mac OS X . When you back in OS X you can change the startup disk via sys. pref . > startup disk
Problem resolved : ( You will need another mac with a Thunderbolt port to make this work . We 'll call the problematic one A and the other one B ) Connect a Thunderbolt cable between the old machine ( A ) to another one ( B ) . Start A in target mode ( Press T on boot ) . You 'll now see A 's drive as an external drive on B 's desktop . Go to ' Startup Disk ' in ' System Preferences ' . Pick A 's drive as your boot disk . Reboot . If everything 's working , you should see A 's Finder etc. on B 's display . Connect Time Machine to B. Start it . Click ' Options ... ' and exclude B 's drive from the backup . Run another time machine backup on the HD . I eventually went out and got a new MBP ( which I was planning to do anyway ) and migrated directly from the time machine latest backup .
Flash controllers generally degrade gracefully , so once a block has failed , it no longer is usable , so you would expect a slow , gradual shrinking of the usable space over time . Once the majority of the blocks start reaching the limit on write cycles ( you need to store different data - not just the same bits to make real change on most flash controllers ) then this reduction of space increases more linearly with time / write cycles . So - it will be quick to not store the entire file , but a much longer time until you ca n't write to 50 % of the drive .
end question
start question
Can I delete folder Developer-3 .2.5 ?
Yes , you can absolutely delete the folder Developer-3 .2.5 - it should n't effect your workflow in any way UNLESS you want to add an older SDK at a later date . If you are interested in seeing more discussion about it , there is also an <URL> that essentially says the same thing - that you do n't need the folders .
<URL> appears to be related , it seems to be a permissions issue . I worked around this by creating a new folder at my destination and moving the folder contents into that new folder , instead of trying to directly move the folder itself . This invoked a proper Move operation without any special commands or key combos , and the files were moved instantaneously .
If the only two directories you have in ~ Library/Developer are Xcode and Docsets ( or Shared/Docsets ) then you should be safe to delete that folder . If you did re-install XCode you would get them ( or updated versions ) back .
Open the " Photos " view and press the Sharing button : You can then select one or more photos and delete them :
No , being enrolled within the Apple Developer 's Program does not provide you with any kind of special downgrade possibilities . In the other hand , being a Developer grants you the ability to upgrade to the newest yet-to-be-released version of iOS . So , being the iPad 2 <URL> for iOS 6 , you wo n't be able to upgrade it to iOS 5.1.1 instead , enrolled as a Developer or not .
Yes , simply run the following in Terminal : Where is the default installation of Xcode , typically :
If this is not your system disk , you should kick off a disk repair which will trim unused blocks . Otherwise , boot in single user mode ( hold ⌘ + S during startup ) and issue the command : . Be aware this will not work from rescue systems , as they do not have trimforce enabled , while booting to the single user mode acknowledges trimforce .
Import/Export works differently in Xcode 5 + . <URL> shows you how to do it . Your account is shown under Xcode → Preferences → Accounts , and can be exported by clicking the gear icon ( ) in the lower-left .
No , you ca n't use a gift card . You might want to try a prepaid credit card . You can get them at most places that sell gift cards .
I 've found I can use <URL> to make copies of preferences files , etc. . The ( somewhat tedious ) click-driven process is as follows : Start iExplorer , navigate to device , Apps . Locate the app to back up data for . ( This can be tricky , as not all apps are named internally similarly to their friendly public name . ) Browse the app contents . Generally , game progress is stored in Library/Preferences . Drag the appropriate files to a local disk for safekeeping . Delete the app . When the app is reinstalled later , drag the files back in their previous place and restart the app . iExplorer also has a mode for automatically mounting one of its folders as a <URL> volume when an iOS device is connected ; this allows me to connect my device and then use the command line to more efficiently back up and restore documents and preferences .
Mail automatically highlights emails from Apple . You can turn this off in the Rules tab of Mail Preferences .
I found if you leave all the folders starting with Printing ... and the Assets folder that are in the folder , you can still print . Just delete all the other folders and you will regain a chunk of disk space .
If you ca n't delete the paused download ( which , I 'm thinking , suggests you are n't on the most recent release of iOS ) , then the simplest option that does n't require a restore is going to be to find a WiFi hotspot and let the app finish downloading . Personally , I 'd go that route ( especially if out-and-about or on vacation , etc. ) before wiping my data and having to restore again . Alternatively , leave it on paused until you get home to your primary network . Your phone does n't care two cents about your paused app downloads , so it should n't get in the way of anything .
You ca n't do this in Lion . <URL> if you want to be able to do this .
Yes you can delete anything in the Cache folder . There 's no unsaved things . Just cached data . Like renderinged things in the case of After Effects . In video editing software you can often define maximum cache size .
Go into the folder and choose the view you want the folder to display as . Press cmd + J , then check the " Always open in [ type ] view " box at the top of the small window and make sure that the " Browse in [ type ] view " option is unchecked . Close that window . Now the Finder should switch the view to the one you chose whenever you enter that folder .
Yup , you are safe to delete it , just as long as you did n't add anything important to it .
you are right changing the names may have unforeseen consequences later . You can make a new folder somewhere . Named Apps . Or what ever you want to name it . Then create alises to the applications Placing the aliases in the new folder . You can name the aliases what ever you like and have the new folder in the dock . 1 , Create the Aliases . Drag Applications to your new folder . They should automatically choose to be alias files because you are dragging from the Applications folder . The cursor should become a curved arrow while you are dragging . If not then hold down the alt + cmd keys to make the copies allies files . 2 , Now rename the alias files what ever you want . This will not affect the real files . I have just named some of them here 3 , Place the Folder in the Dock . And now when you go to it the Alias file will look like the real apps . Have your names and open the real apps . You can Also just place any of the Alias files directly on the Dock .
Go to Settings ; Tap on > > , then swipe across and tap the delete button that appeared . That should delete all your local music .
Generally , yes , since most applications are installed through copying the application from a DMG file into your Applications folder . However , this is not always the case , since applications can also be installed through the use of OS X Installer or a 3rd party installer . As a rule of thumb , if an application was installed through an installer , copying the from the Applications folder wo n't be enough . If you wish to backup an application that came from an installer , you will usually require that installer . If you have a valid license for the software ( e.g. Photoshop ) you can redownload the installer from Adobe 's website and use that to install it . When you entered your key into the application , it will have created a hardware-linked key that ensures the software can not be copied to a new computer without re-entering the software key . The easiest way is just to use the installer itself to reinstall the software . In addition , do n't forget about the additional files that may be created when you run the application . For example , files in the Application Support folder . You can use an complete app remover such as <URL> to list the files that may be related to the app . In this case , there was a preference file in that holds DaisyDisk 's user preferences . Copying this file to a different computer in the same place should keep the preferences . On the other hand , cache files such as those in are not usually necessary to be backed-up/copied .
end question
start question
What external HD can I use to my Airport Extreme Base Station for use of wireless Time Machine ?
Unlike the Time Capsule , the Airport Extreme does n't support being a backup destination , no matter what drive you use . It is possible to <URL> , but this is unsafe - the AEBS lacks features that help protect data , and without them , the slightest network error can make your backups useless . Some of the technical reasons for this have been explored here : <URL> However , you can look for a network-attached drive that supports Time Machine , such as WD 's My Book Live . These are drives that attach by ethernet instead of USB , and they implement the file-sharing features that Time Machine requires .
Unfortunately , Time Machine does n't support this feature and there are a couple of reasons why . Time Machine makes physical backups of all your files , not just links to them . If it backed up to iCloud Drive ( which syncs to your Mac ) , it would duplicate 150GB on to your HDD . It would then try to back all of that up too ( unless you exclude that location from the backup ) so it would try to add another 150GB to the backup , and so on . Time Machine makes incremental backups . Sure , your backup is just 150GB now . But you change a few files and it backs up an additional 25MB . You install a new app and it adds another 2GB . While you may keep your actual drive below 320GB , your Time Machine backup could end up over 1TB in size ! In my case , I use about 400GB of storage on my Mac , but my Time Machine backup is over 1.3 TB due to deleted files . Having said all that , sure , theoretically it is possible . If you created a link to a folder on your iCloud Drive in it should show up as a disk to back up to , and if you excluded backing up iCloud Drive through Time Machine it would n't double in size every backup . Your hard drive would fill up very very quickly though , and your performance would suffer . To me , at least , this seems a lot more effort than it is worth .
Yes - Macs have internet sharing where you can use one device to get internet and share it from another . Most people in a cabin situation set up an AirPort to let all the devices talk and then you would share from the USB to the physical ethernet port . The router would get to the internet from the ethernet and everyone can join the WiFi and share whether or not the USB modem is dialed . You would set the service order to have the USB modem be the highest connection in the network pane . What you ask is also possible - just share from USB to WiFi and the Mac will create a wireless network the other devices can join .
Two things happen : Time Machine sees if the format is acceptable and makes a change to enforce enhanced security on that drive if needed . Time Machine makes a folder named Backups.backupdb if needed and makes a folder for each machine that uses that drive . Assuming you do n't have a Backups.backupdb folder - then everything on the drive wo n't be touched by Time Machine . If the drive is n't in a mac format , you may be asked to erase the drive and reformat it . Do use care and read any messages carefully before you start that first backup . Full details on this is at <URL> - look for the section titled Changing your backup disk about a quarter of the way down for the restrictions on which format drives are supported and which need to be erased .
According to Apple , no . The iMac Retina 5K does not support Target Display Mode . Note that the iMac ( Retina 5K , 27-inch , Late 2014 ) does not support Target Display Mode . You can see it <URL> .
Well , I bought one and tried . AirPort Utility 5.6.1 complains about incompatible hardware and missing parameters , but apart from that it works :) It 's possible to configure the syslog server .
If you make two different partitions in the external HD , you can easily have the two different Time Machine backup in the each partition . You only need to specify the partition to use for the MacBook during the initial Time Machine setup . Then the Mac would know which partition to use for its backup the next time you connect the external HD . The same goes for the second MacBook . By doing so you could limit the amount of space taken up by he Time Machines of both Macs .
Yes , you can . When you set up the new Mac and connect it to your Time Machine backup either through the network or via cable , you can select restore from Time Machine Backup during setup . If you have already set up your new Mac and want to now restore , use Migration Assistant found in your Applicatons > Utilities folder . The instructions can be found on Apple Support . See the link below or search support for Migration Assistant . From <URL> : Migration Assistant and Setup Assistant Setup Assistant opens the first time you start up a new Mac . It helps you enter your information about your network , and guides you through setting up a user account on your computer . Use it to transfer user accounts , settings , and documents from another computer to your Mac . If you do n't use Setup Assistant to transfer information when you first set up your new Mac , you can do it later using Migration Assistant . Migration Assistant in OS X Mavericks and Yosemite can transfer information from other computers that have OS X Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 or later installed . If you 're migrating from a computer with an earlier version of OS X , update your older computer first , or manually copy your data from one computer to another . If you 're migrating from a Windows-based PC to a Mac , you can use the Windows Migration Assistant as part of this process . Migrate from a Time Machine backup or external drive Use these steps to migrate users , data , or other information from an existing Time Machine backup stored on a Time Capsule or external drive . If your Time Machine backup is on an external drive , connect the drive to your new Mac . On your new Mac , open Migration Assistant . You can find it by choosing Go > Utilities , or using Spotlight or Launchpad . Enter an admin password when prompted , and click OK . Select " From a Mac , Time Machine backup , or startup disk " , then click Continue . Select the Drive , Time Machine backup , or Time Capsule volume you want to migrate from , then click Continue . The Continue button is unavailable ( dimmed ) until you select a source . If you 're migrating from a Time Capsule , enter your Time Capsule password when prompted , then click Connect . Select the specific Time Machine backup you want to migrate from , then click Continue . You can customize the type of information that is migrated on the next screen . If you want to transfer only a portion of an account , deselect anything you do n't want migrated . If there is more than one user on your original Mac , you can click the triangle next to a user 's icon and deselect anything you do n't want to migrate for specific users . After you click Continue , the Migration Assistant begins transferring files to Mac . The amount of time that it takes for migration to complete depends on the amount of data being copied , and the speed of the connection . After migration finishes , the login window reappears . Log into the migrated account on your new Mac to see your old files . <URL>
Use <URL> to resize your existing partitions . Make a bootable disc or USB stick . And be careful , Gparted can easily destroy your data . If this does n't work then you will probably struggle to find any other option . There is no way to my knowledge to change MBR to GPT without destroying all of the partitions and their associated data .
In a nutshell : No , you ca n't . A backup is not a synchronisation solution so there is always a 1:1 relationship between your main drive ( s ) and your backup . You can use Time Machine to backup multiple computers to the same network drive , but the backups will always end up as separate bundles . To transfer applications/data from one Mac to another once , have a look at Migration Assistant ( ) . To share data with ongoing updates from several machines , consider defining remote access/folder sharing on a master drive or look into .
In System Preferences > Sharing , click " Internet Sharing " on the left . In the " Share your connection from " menu , choose " Wi-Fi , " and then in the " To computers using " list , choose " Bluetooth PAN . " Then check the box next to " Internet Sharing " in the list on the left to enable it . ( The options in the screenshot are only greyed out because you ca n't change them once Internet Sharing is on ) .
Modern and semi modern CD Drives ( USB ) are 100 % compatible with OSX since they are really an ATA drive , connected through USB . Bluetooth and LightScribe technology will be another story , but the drive , as a reader/recorder ought to work without problems . In fact , if you ever find one that does n't work , it would be a nice discovery .
Yes : This is totally possible and you should not have any problems at all . You should consider though , that every Mac has a minimum and a maximum OS X Version which is officially supported .
The Airport Express/Extreme allows monitoring via SNMP if you enable it via the Airport Configuration Utility ( version 5.6 ONLY ) . Apple removed advanced configuration parameters from Airport Configuration Utility 6.0 . <URL> to get a full access to all configuration parameters of your router . SNMP configuration is located under Advanced settings . From there , ANY snmp polling engine can get traffic as a whole . You would be hard-pressed to find anything that could differenciate traffic between devices that is n't a real router ( Cisco , etc ) or custom built Linux box . I just found this during a quick serach : <URL> via <URL> allows you to monitor any SNMP device with a pretty interface .
In order to create a Time Machine backup to an unsupported drive ( pretty much anything that 's not formatted HFS + ) you need to run the following Terminal command : Your share will now show up as a valid Time Machine destination in the Time Machine Preference Pane . Time Machine will then create a disk image on that drive that will act just like a HFS + drive for Time Machines purposes ( hard linking , etc. ) . One advantage of using a disk image over using the entire drive is that you can limit the size it will grow to of the disk image using Disk Utility . Be sure to check Louis Gerbarg 's <URL> as well for why it 's unsupported and you have to jump through a hoop to enable it .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
The short answer is Yes . If the Time Machine drive is accessible to Windows ( via MacDrive or anything else ) , then it can be corrupted and directly destroyed . For this reason , I recommend turning off your Time Machine drive while in Windows . Another possibility is that modifications to your primary drive could cause its ID to change , which would break its association with its existing Time Machine backups . The old Time Machine backups would still be there on the backup drive , but they would be treated as being backups of a different system . It sounds like this is probably what happened . It could be because you ( or something ) renamed the primary drive or otherwise tried to change it at the root level . But since you saw a MacDrive error , its more likely a glitch in MacDrive . There 's not much you can do to prevent that except not use it . Try running a Disk Utility check on all drives , preferably while booted from a DVD or an external drive . That will at least make sure nothing worse happened .
Have you tried : Cmd + F2 I 've connected my MacBook Air with my iMac , and it just works fine . But you have no change to see the two devices at the same time .
It is not compatible . Bell 's new network ( shared with Telus ) is a <URL> ( on top of their existing CDMA network ) which the iPhone 2G <URL> .
It should be possible , but it will not be able to use your existing MBP backup ( you will need to start it from scratch ) . Just plug the disk into the iMac , make sure it is being shared , and then select it in Time Machine setup on the MacBook Pro and let it do the initial backup . The reason you ca n't use the existing backup is that when you use a disk for Time Machine it uses that disk directly , since it is attached to the machine and the machine knows no other machine is modifying it . When you use it over a network it creates a disk image and puts the time machine data in the disk image ( in essence , it is a poor man 's version of <URL> . Migrating between these two configurations is possible , but non-trivial .
end question
start question
Is it possible to backup iOS devices to an external drive ?
If I understand correctly , you want to backup your iOS devices to a drive other than your Mac 's ( because they have small SSDs ) . It <URL> to backup multiple Macs to a single Time Capsule . Sadly though , it seems that Time Capsule does n't support backing up iOS devices ( yet . I really do hope this becomes an option soon , and <URL> ) . Here are ways you can make sure those 50GB in your iPhones do n't end up in your Mac 's SSDs though . Photos In terms of pictures , iOS8 should have you backed up with <URL> . If enabled , all your pictures and video will automatically be stored in iCloud , which gives you 5GB of free storage ( or 20GB for $ 1/mo , 200GB for $ 4/mo ) . If that is not your jazz though , you can always sync to iPhoto , but <URL> to an external hard drive . iPhoto stores all your photos a single archive , the iPhoto Library on your folder , which you can move as you please . When iPhoto opens , it will automatically look for the iPhoto Library where it last saw it , but if it ca n't find it it will ask you were it is , and keep working as if nothing had happened . Backups iTunes backups might be a little more tricky , but it seems to be possible to move the folder where iTunes stores its backups to an external hard drive , and then trick iTunes into backing up there . I have n't tried doing this myself , but here 's a <URL> that claims you can do it and outlines the steps to follow , both for Windows and OSX . The instructions for OSX are n't too bad , as long as you are n't too scared of using the application ( ) . In a nutshell : Copy to a new location , say . This directory has a folder called , which is where iTunes stores backups for mobile devices . Note 1 : is an alias computers use for your home folder . Note 2 : Your folder is hidden by default . You can open it in Finder by opening typing in . Remove/rename . We wo n't need it anymore . Create a symbolic link to the new location for in your external hard drive . This is basically like an alias in the old location of to its new location . To do so open and type in If you launch iTunes now it should follow the symbolic link and go on with business as usual , not knowing that in fact it 's now working with a folder that 's on an external hard drive . You 'll need to have the hard drive connected to backup , Hope it helps !
You can use Disk Utility to create an image of the external hard drive . Plug in the external hard drive and then start Disk Utility -- it 's in the Utilities folder under Applications -- and then select the external hard drive from the list along the lefthand side of the Disk Utility window . Once you 've selected the external drive , click on New Image at the top of the window and it will ask you where you want to store the image file . Select a location and then let it do its thing . Once completed , you can restore the image to the same or another external drive or you can simply double-click the image file to mount the disk and explore its contents using finder as you would normally .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
Does n't seem to be possible . Even the limited Help for Grab.app suggests using Preview to convert away from TIFF . I presume you need " Timed Screen Captures " otherwise you would use the keyboard shortcuts ? Note that you can take the grab , then copy the image without saving ( CMD+A , CMD+C ) , then ALT+TAB to Preview.app , then CMD+N , then save . Not very elegant . You could also just deal with Grab.app saving as TIFF , but then set up an Automator action that watches a folder and converts TIFF to whatever you want each time a TIFF shows up in the folder . This ought to be fairly easy and transparent way to use Grab.app and get the file formats of your choice .
Clearly : No . The simulator does not offer hardware access ( gyroscope , accelerometer , etc. ) and also , you just do n't get the feeling for your App , which is very important in iOS development . You ca n't use the gestures and you do n't know how it reacts if you work with it . so it is definitely not advisable . I tried to use the simulator in the beginning , but some frameworks do n't even run on it .
Yes . Just leave the app in full screen mode when you quit the application . As long as it 's using Lion 's full screen library ( and not some hack of its own ) , the next time you start the app it will start back up in full screen mode . Just tested this with Safari and Sparrow and they both restarted in full screen mode . Chrome 15.0.874.106 , however , did not . I do n't think Chrome 's full screen support on Lion is quite right , it might not be using Lion 's full screen window methods in the ways necessary to have it resume in full screen mode .
In general , it 's not possible to downgrade the modem firmware / baseband software version on iOS , <URL> or use software designed to install modified software on an iPhone . It 's a popular request , so I imagine many people are working on it but nothing is out today to perform the task you ask on the iPhone 4 .
I would try a local Apple Store or Mac repair shop . There 's a good chance they have a few dead keyboards laying around that they 'd be willing to give you a replacement key from .
As fas as I know there is no way to save an MP3 file directly from the web . What you can do is jailbreak your iPad and then try saving it .
By all means - vote with your wallet . It 's trivial for a trained technician to replace the hard drive on a Time Capsule . Rather than put the rubber covering back on the base , you can use <URL> to raise the capsule up from it 's shelf . Most feel iFixit has decent <URL> if you care to DIY .
The basic TimeMachine recovery procedure boils down to : 1 ) boot from Recovery/Installation media 2 ) make use of the Disk Utility ( I recall under the tools menu option of the installation USB/DVDs ) to format/partition the new disk 3 ) Then select/choose the Restore/transfer option where you can then select the TimeMachine ( Or Migration Assistant ) to restore from . The problems I do n't have an answer to as I 've never done that in my setups : a ) recovery of the Recovery partition ... I usually were doing " upgrades " , thus I did fresh installs , and then I restored the TimeMachine specific files , or I used the " Migration Assistant " to restore the applications/users as need be b ) You did n't specify the version , which might mean different issues w.r.t. the medium , ie . USB/DVD/etc . Creating a USB boot image is outside the scope of this question and answer ;)
No . There is no way to interface a CD drive with an iOS device . The best way to do this is to have your iOS device registered to a copy of iTunes running on a Mac or PC , and to connect the iOS device to the Mac or PC via WiFi or a USB cable . This would presuppose that you have a suitable CD drive connected to the Mac or PC for ripping audio . However , it occurs to me that you could probably rip music to AAC or MP3 format on a Mac or PC and then email those files to yourself , check the email on your iOS device , and then open the email attachments on the iOS device . That would get the music files in there .
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
No , the hardware radio does n't work in the manner needed for AirDrop to function . See the fine print of <URL> which states : AirDrop is available on iPhone 5 or later , iPad ( 4th generation ) , iPad mini , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) and requires an iCloud account
To work together on any development project , you preferably need a <URL> like GIT or SVN . Apple supports this with <URL> . If you 're not working on the app at the same time , I imagine that DropBox or any other file sharing system would work as well . Being on the same Apple Developer team would hardly mean anything in this matter at all . Note that you need to apply as a company to the Apple Developer Program in order to have more team members . The only direct benefit during development is that you can use the same certificates for distributing your app . The package you upload to iTunes Connect for distribution via the App Store is a binary , a compiled version of the app from which it is not possible to extract the source code .
While Time Machine always backs up all mounted volumes connected to the Mac via USB/FireWire/Thunderbolt , it ca n't backup network volumes like a NAS . As it seems , this is not mentioned anywhere in Apple 's support documents , but here 's a good <URL> made by a user .
end question
start question
How do I manage locations for the Reminders iPhone app ?
Your home and work geo-location are picked up from your contacts card in the Contacts app ( on iOS devices ) . To manage where your home or work is , edit the relevant addresses in the Contacts app , under ' add new address ' . You can also edit other peoples addresses , add shops , the gym , clubs , etc , and it will use this data .
In iTunes on the computer when the iOS device is connected choose the device in the sidebar . This will goive a page with a menu on top allow select od Podcast . Like this The second oval shows that I have selected to sync podcasts automatically keeping the 5 least recent unplayed . Alter these options to either keep updates manual or choose new rather than unplayed .
So far the only way I 've found to do this is to manually choose the alert style for the app in Notification Center . The default is banner , so enabling push notifications requires setting the alert style to banner , turn on badging , sounds and enable in notification center , and similarly disabling all these ( banner style to none ) to disable . I really wish there were a single on/off setting for this but there does n't appear to be . Update : I got my wish . As of iOS 8 I believe there is now a single on/off switch to enable notifications for an app . This resides in the Settings - > Notifications area under the specific app .
<URL> It works pretty well . I had similar issues on my Mac , did n't like being glued with the headphones forever so I got this just yesterday . And I loved it . It 's not free , but for $ 5 it works like a horse .
I do n't believe Google has a public bug tracker . However , there is an unofficial one available at <URL> . I did some extra looking , and there does n't seem to be anything like Apple 's own <URL> or the <URL> . Thankfully , Gmail.app has a built-in mechanism to send feedback with . Starting with your inbox view , open the menu by tapping on the menu icon in the top left . Then : This will provide you with a form to send feedback to Google .
Go to Settings - > General - > Accessibility and set " White on Black " to Off .
You can use <URL> for iPhone and iPad instead of Apple 's Reminders . It syncs perfectly with Google Tasks , supports alerts and location reminders . It has very good reviews in the App Store .
You can edit any icon by right-clicking ( control-clicking ) the application , choosing , and dragging the replacement icon over the original icon at the top of the window that appears . You can also copy and paste the image you 'd like to use as an icon , <URL> . This works for files or folders you 'd like to change the icon for .
No , you will not be charged . You can re-download them in iTunes or directly on the phone . You 'll have to hit the " buy " button , but after it starts downloading , you should see a message saying you already bought it once . The alert box includes a button to go ahead and re-download the app , which you will then not be charged for .
Log in to <URL> Select My Apps Press the ' + ' button at the top left and choose " New App " ( for iOS ) or " New Mac App " ( for OS X )
The podcast app is a bit convoluted to know which episodes are unplayed but available for streaming and unplayed and downloaded . I have n't been able to tell visually which is which and am in the habit of turning on AirPlane mode to check which podcasts are actually downloaded then going back and downloading them if needed before leaving Wi-Fi or wireless range . <URL> for iOS 6 is actually great for things like this . ( If hit that link your phone , you can save it as a webapp on your home screen for other issues . ) Here 's the relevant section on your question : • Download an episode so you can listen to it when you 're not connected to Wi-Fi : Tap the " down-arrow " icon next to any episode .
As Ian C. says , the heap size is Application specific , therefore , here 's how you increase it for Netbeans : Right click on the NetBeans.app and select Show content of package . Inside the package go to / Contents/Resources/NetBeans / etc / and open the netbeans.conf file . In the setting , change or add the following options : ( e.g. ) or ( e.g. ) . Save the file and restart the IDE . If you want to increase the Project 's heap size you must go to your project 's Properties / Run / VM Options , and in the text box add the arguments .
If you have Lion , then you can also hold down the option key in Launchpad ; the icons will start to wiggle and show little x 's on all the App Store installed apps very much like iOS does . Click the x and confirm the deletion and it will be the equivalent of dragging it to the trash from Finder ; which means supporting preference files , etc. still remain , but for most users that should be of no concern .
You ca n't set it to go back to the last Desktop you were in , but you can set it to go to a specific Desktop when you exit full screen . Just move the application in windowed mode to the desktop you want , right-click the app in the Dock and set to " This Desktop " . Whenever you come out of full screen , it will always go into windowed mode in that particular desktop .
If you 're able to save the file you 'd like to play as a ringtone , then the iPhone can play it once the timer hits zero . The big limitation here is that it 'd need to be ~ 35 seconds in length , but depending on your specific need , that might be enough . There are a few apps on the App Store that will allow you to create ringtones from music files , or you could <URL> . The linked instructions are for Garageband ' 11 , but searching " garageband ringtone " at Apple support will yield links for various other versions of Garageband - the process is pretty much the same .
Generally speaking there 's nothing you have to do except launch the application that supports your hardware . If you add a new network device , it is immediately listed the next time you open the Network preference pane in System Preferences . If you add a new sound device , is it immediately listed in the Sound preference pane in System Preferences . ( You can also Option + Click the volume icon in your menu bar within seconds of plugging your device in and see it in the list . ) You do n't need to " add new hardware " to use it . If it is compatible , it generally just shows up .
You can do that with Network locations . You can defined for example two profiles : work ( fixed IP ) and home ( DHCP ) . As you said chancing the location from is tedious . However you can do the same from the menu : > .
You can use <URL> . It uses an hidden file stored on the iPhone recording an history of location . It has been a little buzz <URL> when it came out on almost all media worldwide . From the description of how to tool is working , it will even work with a backup file of the device . So you can use it on a Mac where the iPhone has been sync ' ed and backed-up . PS : I do n't want to go in the discusion " is it a good thing to track people etc. . . " . Just trying to answer the OP question ... edit Now available for windows on <URL> .
In the iPhone app , at the bottom of the list of episodes you will always find the link you can tap to " Get More Episodes " . That is a hardwired link to that podcast 's page on iTunes . This link will be shown regardless of whether or not there are more episodes actually available . The podcast pages in the iTunes app and in iTunes on the desktop are the same and contain the same episode list . The episode lists themeselves are not controlled or determined by Apple or iTunes , but by the makers of each podcast . Podcast makers use different feed systems ( like adlib or feeedburner ) and they have different bandwith limitations depending on their own usage terms . Podcasts like This American Life , for example , in order to minimize bandwith costs , will only keep the latest episode on their episode list . So when you tap on " Get More Episodes " you will only get a list of one . Podcasts like This Week In Tech , for example , have bandwith sponsors that allow them to host most of their back catalogue . So when you tap on " Get More Epidodes " , you will get a list of fifty or more . It basically all depends on how each podcast maker handles their feed and bandwith costs . Hope this helps .
Currently , it is not possible to gift Mac App Store apps directly . There is a workaround where you could buy an iTunes Gift card ( from the iTunes store home menu ) for exactly the price of the app and the recipient can redeem the code in the Mac App Store
end question
start question
Can I delete any of the default apps the come with OS X ?
Instead of Uninstalling these apps , you could just hide them . Doing this in Terminal : Will hide the application from sight , but will still be there . Here is the link for the source : <URL>
To share your Mac internet connection with your iPad do the following ( <URL> ) On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Bluetooth > Turn Bluetooth On . Turn Bluetooth On on your iPad . Your iPad should show up as a new device in the Bluetooth preferences of your Mac . Click Pair . A six digit number will appear on your Mac . This same number should show up on your iPad . Confirm the connection by tapping " Pair " on your iPad . On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Sharing Click on " Internet Sharing " from the menu on the left . Do not check the box yet ! Select : Share your connection from " Wi-Fi " Check : To computers using " Bluetooth PAN " Check the " Internet Sharing " box from the menu on the left When asked if you 're sure you want to share your connection , select " Start " share mac internet with iPad At this point , you should be able to get online on your iPad . Obviously , for this to work , your Mac will have to be awake and connected to the internet .
Usually apps do n't place themselves in the dock without your consent or knowledge . There are a couple ways to put them there though . Perhaps you may not realize it , but it may be one of these reasons : The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon installation . Note : Lion will not do this though ; it simply places it in Launchpad . The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon updating an app . Note : Updating an non-docked app individually via the updates tab is when it gets re-placed in the dock . However using the ' Update All ' button at the top of the page will not do any such thing . Again , this is changed in Lion . If you run an app that is not kept in the dock and drag it to another position anywhere on the dock , it will stay in the dock Drag an app into the dock from Finder Right click an app in the dock an under options select ' Keep in Dock '
You should go for the 64bit version . Apple is more and more leaning towards 64 bit adoption . In the end , unless it 's some heavy processing application , you wo n't even feel the difference with the 32bit version . But at least you 'll be ready for the future :)
I 'm afraid not . You can keep running old versions of apps , but you can not download them . For example , Check the Weather was recently updated to require iOS 6 . If you have an iOS 5 device you can no longer purchase it on the device , but I can keep running the version I have as long as I do n't delete it . I understand and share your frustration .
So you went to your Keynote presentation document file and used the Finder to " Show Package Contents " then you deleted the image files you found in there . That would cause problems . Try this : Open a new Keynote document and select the Theme that you want to use as the basis for your presentation . Now do ... Delete all Master Slides that you do n't need . If you need a Master Slide with an image , replace the image with a small place holder image . For example , a JPG file with a solid color . Remove the Back Ground Image from All Remaining master slides , and remove any other unneeded elements from the slides . Click the button at the bottom of the Master Slide editing screen ( which will probably do nothing ) Give it a name such as " Church Music " Now you can create a new presentation using the " Church Music " theme . Your theme will be on the " My Themes " tab of the theme browser . After you save , you can now view the presentation 's Package Contents to make sure that there is no unused items . Keynote will generate a variety of slide previews and other images which you need to keep , but these should be very small . If there is stuff that you really do n't need , you might try re-editing the Themes Master Slides .
I have to remove a PGP plug-in from / Library/Mail/Bundles to get the Mail App running again . Just open Mail and immediately open Accounts , disable the accounts one by one to find out which one is causing the crash . Then delete this account completely and restart Mail . Then add the account all over again . It worked on my gmail account .
According to a <URL> , FileVault 2 is not FIPS 140-2 validated , but " Apple 's new Common Crypto implementation is just starting to undergo FIPS evaluation " The code itself for Common Crypto is available at <URL> and has been all the way back to 10.4 ( where I got tired of checking revisions - it probably goes back even further , but what matters is the code shipped in Lion which is available for all three lion releases 10.7 , 10.7.1 and 10.7.2 )
In column view in the Finder , you can resize columns by positioning the mouse pointer over over the thin line that separates column panes , and dragging it to the left to make it narrower or to the right to make it wider . To make the Finder remember the new width , <URL> while dragging the pane separator to the desired width . The <URL> alludes to the fact that holding down option resizes " all columns at once " but does not explicitly say that this makes the change persistent .
It seems the answer is ' not huge , but noticeable ' , maybe 15-20 % . I 'm not sure what the price tag difference is off hand , but if you 're working on graphics apps , games , video - get what you can afford , with the iMac 's not being upgradeable in that sense , what can it hurt to do so ? With an all in one I 'm a big believe in buying what you can afford to get . That said - if you 're going to replace the machine next year ? Do n't worry so much .
I seems that I use filters in GMail to skip inbox , and the sound is actually come from Mail.app . As a result , no new mail arrives to the Inbox of Mail.app , but to the Archive of the Mail.app . In the preference of Mail.app , one option is to choose " Inbox Only " for " New message notifications " . But it seems that this option will not mute the new messages sound when new message arrive to other mailbox , only skip the notification alert that shows up in the upper right corner of the screen .
Step one - try the free trial of <URL> ( 30 $ ) . Step two - buy it . These is no step three . It 's that good .
You would need to change sounds in : There are : and ( self explanatory ) . I recomend to make backup of those files before swap .
When duplicating a photo within the Photos app , you are now given the option of duplicating as Still Photo . On your Mac , right-click the Live Photo , then Duplicate 1 Photo . On iOS , open the Share Sheet from your Live Photo , then tap Duplicate . The option to Duplicate as Still Photo will appear . Select that , then delete the original to drop the video portion from a Live Photo . You can actually select multiple Live Photos and process them as a batch this way .
You can use <URL> . It uses an hidden file stored on the iPhone recording an history of location . It has been a little buzz <URL> when it came out on almost all media worldwide . From the description of how to tool is working , it will even work with a backup file of the device . So you can use it on a Mac where the iPhone has been sync ' ed and backed-up . PS : I do n't want to go in the discusion " is it a good thing to track people etc. . . " . Just trying to answer the OP question ... edit Now available for windows on <URL> .
Out of the box there is no themeing capability in Mac OS X , you can however modify some of the colours used by Mac OS X in the Appearance Preference Pane in System Preferences . If you 're serious about themeing however there are 3rd party applications you can get to help with this : <URL> - manages and changes icons . <URL> - does most everything else . If you 're interested in available themes that work with ThemePark check out <URL> Otherwise a fairly good resource is the forum at <URL> .
To answer your question " Does the 2.8 GHz model come with dual Intel/AMD graphics card or just Intel embedded graphics only ? " , the 2.8 GHz model came both ways . The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Mid 2015 ) with a 2.8 GHz CPU was available with either an Intel Iris Pro Graphics only , or with the Intel Iris Pro Graphics and AMD Radeon R9 M370X Graphics , so you ca n't go by just the CPU . The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Mid 2015 ) with a 2.8 GHz CPU and only the Intel Iris Pro Graphics has the Model Identifier : MacBookPro11 ,4 The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Mid 2015 ) with a 2.8 GHz CPU and both the Intel Iris Pro Graphics and AMD Radeon R9 M370X Graphics has the Model Identifier : MacBookPro11 ,5 So unless the Tech Specs provided by the seller states the Model Identifier as MacBookPro11 ,5 or states it has both the Intel Iris Pro Graphics and AMD Radeon R9 M370X Graphics then you 'll have to ascertain additional information from the seller to determine what Graphics Adapters it has . See <URL> and <URL> as references , as well as the <URL> . I also used information from <URL> to determine and verify my statements .
I have been running Mavericks for about two weeks and I have n't noticed any apps that were deleted during the install . Some of Apple 's apps may be updated during the upgrade , but I 'm not aware of anything that gets deleted .
There is a feature that 's currently experimental called HiDPI that may do what you want . Like the retina displays on the iPhone and iPad , HiDPI mode creates a " logical " resolution that 's half the current resolution on your display but uses all the physical pixels to keep the image sharp . This results in all the user interface elements appearing much larger , but with no lack in clarity . For example , if you 're outputting to a 1080p TV with a resolution of 1920x1080 , the HiDPI resolution would be 960x540 , and all the elements on the screen would be the same size as if you were outputting that physical resolution . To enable HiDPI mode in Mac OS X Lion : Download the " Graphics Tools for Xcode " download from Apple . This download requires you to enter an Apple ID , which you most likely have and can get for free . Mount the DMG Open the " Quartz Debug " app In the menu bar , select " Window " , then " UI Resolution " <URL> Check " Enable HiDPI display modes " You 'll be prompted to log out and log back in . If multiple accounts are logged in , they must all log out for the change to work . Once you log back in , go to System Preferences , then Displays . You will see the new HiDPI modes there . <URL> For your 1080p TV , select " 960x540 ( HiDPI ) " P.S. . If you 're curious what HiDPI mode looks like , the screenshots I 've taken are both in HiDPI . Click on them to see them full sized .
Given the absence of answers ( aside from Cawas ' sterling efforts ) , I 'm going to call this one a " no " for now . The situation might just change once iOS 5 and iCloud go live .
end question
start question
Does homebrew store tar.gz after package installation is complete ?
Yes ! The latest version of homebrew stores the artifacts used to install the packages in : If you interrupted an installation homebrew will resume downloading the artifacts if they do n't match the SHA values specified in the recipe for the package . If they SHAs match , it wo n't redownload them . You wo n't ever end up with two copies of the same artifact on disk . If it needs to re-download , it 'll delete the existing artifact first .
This still is possible via a work around . The right-click contextual menu does not contain an option Make Alias for the Originals/Masters directories , but it does for subdirectories . The option Make Alias always shows in the menubar under File & #x 2192 ; Make Alias but is greyed out for the Originals/Masters directories . Workaround Go to a subdirectory of Originals/Master in Finder . Create your alias , & #x 2318 ; + L. Open the Info of the created alias folder , & #x 2318 ; + I. Click the button Select new Original Press & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G to enter a custom path . Enter your path , e.g. Rename the Alias folder .
Yes ! The latest version of homebrew stores the artifacts used to install the packages in : If you interrupted an installation homebrew will resume downloading the artifacts if they do n't match the SHA values specified in the recipe for the package . If they SHAs match , it wo n't redownload them . You wo n't ever end up with two copies of the same artifact on disk . If it needs to re-download , it 'll delete the existing artifact first .
There was no DVD for Mountain Lion . Since Lion arrived with the App Store as a digital release , the core OS is not something you re-download from the store . You do n't need to pay to re-download , but you do have to go through the Recovery HD to initiate the download . When you buy an upgrade from Snow Leopard to Lion or an upgrade to Mountain Lion - that installer can be re-downloaded , but when the OS is included with a CPU purchase , you do n't need to have an Apple ID or account to re-download the OS . You just enter recovery mode and run the installer . It downloads the package after verifying eligibility by checking the serial number on the Mac hardware . If you interrupt the process , you can grab the installer from the drive - but it 's not something that the system was designed to deliver to you as a downloadable package . It was designed to download and re-install on an " as-needed " basis without needing an account , a password - just an internet connection and some time to wait for the download .
Quoting from <URL> , from Apple 's website : Touch ID only allows five unsuccessful fingerprint match attempts before you must enter your passcode , and you ca n't proceed until doing so . You then get ten attempts at your passcode before the device erases , but these are counted separately from attempts to authenticate with Touch ID . This is slightly different from the other answer : After three attempts , the iPhone will present the passcode screen , but you can still have two more tries at authenticating with Touch ID . After five attempts , Touch ID is disabled until you successfully enter your passcode . Apple 's security documents do n't mention a setting to erase the device after failed Touch ID attempts , and I 'm not aware of one . I do n't believe that iOS devices would erase themselves after five unsuccessful attempts , at least not with the current version of iOS .
The <URL> is really useful for these sorts of things .
Ah . I finally found it . The file is and it 's under the key .
Try using <URL> , it 's free , deletes Mac apps and remove any of its related files . To use it , just drag and drop the app you want to remove onto AppCleaners window .
The Mac mini ( mid 2010 ) is extremely finicky accepting RAM with a faster clock-speed ( some work , some do n't ) . You must use 1066 MHz or buy a pair that is known to be free of issue . For some reason that particular model was <URL> ( many posts on the internet regarding its inability to run under these conditions ) . For what it 's worth , the new Mac mini ( mid 2011 ) do not suffer from the same problem , accepting higher clocked RAM without complaint .
HomeBrew is a package manager for mac . It facilitates the installation of different tools by installing and configuring all dependencies as well as the program itself . You can think of it like the Mac App Store for unix apps . If you are familiar with Linux , then Homebrew is exactly like the Linux package manager . For a complete list of everything you can install go here : <URL> If you do n't know what you would need it for , then you probably do n't really need it .
Homebrew on its own acts like a command-line App Store . It 's safe , if you know what you 're downloading . If you are concerned about downloading hijacked binaries , verify the SHA/SHA1 sum of the binary you 've downloaded against the SHA/SHA1 sum published by the developer , usually on their webpage . Personally , I 've never had any bad experiences with Homebrew . I 've explored many projects and never had any bad experiences .
it 's a bug they introduced in iOS6 . drives my crazy . Hope they fix it soon . No easy way to tell Apple they have a bug , unless you sign up to their developers program
I figured this out . One of the spotlight plugins was causing errors , which closer scrutiny of the Console log revealed . I found out which app was causing the problem by looking in There I found several crash reports from mdworker ( the backend to Spotlight ) . All crashes were caused by the same app plugin . I have now deleted that plugin from my system .
I tried uninstalling some applications , and files in these folders or the corresponding folders in were sometimes deleted and sometimes not : ( deleted for most applications ) Files in these folders were n't deleted for any of the applications I tested with : For example Kindle books or the database for notes in JustNotes were not deleted . You can see what files are accessed by uninstalld with and search for support files with . If you want to uninstall applications more completely , it 's probably safe to just delete the whole sandbox containers in .
OneNote stores things in an application container in your user 's Library folder . Open Finder and use the go to folder function and paste The current version has an offline data file in a 15.0 subfolder . You can snoop on the program when it 's running to see what files and ports are open .
iPods and iPhones are backed up using iTunes to a Mac or PC . " On this iPhone " has options to backup either to iCloud or the device running iTunes .
You can find this out by yourself : Start Transmit Execute in Terminal Initiate transfer from S3 to FTP This will list all created/opened files , it should n't be difficult to identify the temporary files .
I believe there would be a time frame to which the data would be able to be retained given some simple knowledge of server configurations . You could think of the iCloud server as a series of hard drives all connected together and connected to the Internet . Some of the hard drive are used for saving your information and your iCloud account allows you to choose how big you want your iCloud storage capacity to be . Other hard drives are used to backup those hard drives . These would be used in the case a large number of the hard drives were not working properly . In this case your information is still saved , which is a very smart and good business practice . Some other hard drives are used when only one of the hard drives with customer information is failing , then this drive will pickup where it left off so there are no service issues . Also , very smart practice . So as far as that information which has been deleted , it is probably still able to be retained for a period of time , after which it would be overwritten on the drives which backup the drives with the original data . Your privacy would still be respected due to the high encryption level of iCloud . Lastly , retaining the information through an interface such as the Settings > iCloud pane in iOS would not be available . However , the information may still be able to be retained in the case it were done on accident .
From Apple website : You can begin using Swift code immediately to implement new features in your app , or enhance existing ones . New Swift code co-exists along side your existing Objective-C files in the same project , making it easy to adopt . And when iOS 8 and OS X Yosemite are released this fall , you can submit your apps to the App Store and Mac App Store . ref : <URL>
Not a direct solution to this problem , per se , but a workaround : the ( very expensive ) software <URL> finds files within bundles like the one used by Papers 3 . It 's very flexible and powerful for searching document contents in its own right , too .
end question
start question
Repeating Mail Calendar Reminders ?
Edit : If you 're connecting an Exchange account or to a Google calendar via the Exchange setting , the Second Alert option is not available , because these systems do not support a second alert . If you are not connecting via the Exchange setting you can access the Second Alert like this : On your iPhone , start Calendar . Navigate to the day that has your event . Select the event , which brings up the Event Details . Click the Edit button . Scroll down until you see Alert . If the event does not already have an alert , it will say " none " and you click " none " to add an alert . Once the event has an alert , you will see a new entry just below it called Second Alert . It will say " none " and just like the first alert , you can click on it to add another alert .
As it turned out , I defined the Reminders list in the Automator service myself , so I could change it there . Stupid me !
You can look at <URL> and apply accordingly to your case . TL ; DR version :
You could also create an Automator workflow with just an empty New Reminders Item action and then run it with . See also <URL> .
If you do n't have other accounts in Mail.app , simply delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , open the V2 folder inside the above path , and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
Yes , you can add an OS X Server calendar as a separate account through Settings → Mail , Contacts , Calendars → Add Account → Other → Add OS X Server Account . This is a completely separate account to your iCloud account . You can allow sync outside of your LAN by forwarding the relevant ports .
You can choose which calendars to sync by going to : <URL> For more info , you can read Google 's support doc about <URL> .
No , you ca n't disable pop-up reminders globally . You can turn off an alert by accessing the event properties in the Calendar app , but then it will be disabled in Google Agenda too .
This is the important site <URL> . Below some misc instructions but you need the site if you use Google calendar with some iOS devices such as iPhone or iPad . Basic Default-calendar - setup You can decide the default calendar in Settings more <URL> , useful if you need to change it with different works , schools or universities for instance . Setting up many Google Calendars to iPad under your account Please , preview this thread <URL> . You need nothing like CalenMob , use the default iOS - calendar and then decide which calendars to share with Apple products such as iPhone and iPad <URL> . For some reason , Google calls it iPhone sync but in reality it handles also the iPad - calendar , perhaps also other Apple products ? Why is it enough to set up just Google - calendars ? Because you can import other calendars such as Facebook-event-calendar , more <URL> , to Google Calendars which you can later show with your Apple products such as iPad by the above instructions . Have Fun !
There are two things you can do about this , one on the device and one on <URL> : On the device , you can setup to sync the calendar only for the events in the past two weeks ( that 's the shortest duration in the past you can set it to ) . Do this by going to Settings → Mail , Contacts , Calendars Under the Calendars section , go to the Sync submenu Select Events 2 Weeks Back Login to <URL> , go to Calendar and follow Apple 's help on " <URL> " : To automatically hide past events , choose Preferences from the Action pop-up menu , click Advanced , select " Hide events n-days after they 've passed , " then enter a number of days . Set it to 1 day ( that 's the minimum allowed ) .
For location-based reminders , you only need to have the GPS turned on . Keeping wifi on helps with locations because it allows the device to pin-point where you 're located . Wifi is not required , however . Bluetooth is not required for location reminders unless you 're using iBeacons . If you 're using iBeacons then bluetooth is required .
In Mail click the button Show which is in the top left of the application window : After step one you can see all your inboxes and folders . You can export any inbox or folder via the right-click menu dialog .
Yes , the built-in Calendar app lets you add them . For your Mac : On your computer , open Calendar In the top left corner of your screen , click Calendar > Preferences . Click the Accounts tab . On the left side of the Accounts tab , click + . Select Google > Continue . Enter your Gmail address , password , and verification code ( if you have one ) . Click Accept . On the Accounts tab , choose how often you want Apple Calendar and Google Calendar to sync . For more information , see <URL>
You can still compress a video and bypass Mail Drop when you compose a new email and manually attach the video ( by long clicking email body ) .
You have n't missed anything obvious other than that Finder is the primary ( and nearly exclusive ) mechanism for placing and reading file tags on Mavericks . There is no interface for Calendars , Contacts , Mail ( or iLife ) to use the filesystem tags directly as far as I can tell . The only apps I 've seen that have an interface to tags other than Finder are the new iWork apps where they are document based apps and you can assign tags in the two places : The save dialog From the document icon in the window 's header bar
Sadly , ( as of iOS 4 ) , this can not be done . The location field of an event does not recognise an address , no matter how perfectly you enter it . [ UPDATE ] In iOS 5 , the location field in any calendar event will ( if properly formatted ) hyperlink to the Maps app .
Well there does n't appear to be any actual proper solution to this , so I have resorted to simply putting an alert in at the pre-set duration of the event . Definitely not what I was hoping for but ... it 's the best that I could come up with . This gets me an alert at the end of the time block , but unfortunately wo n't automatically adjust if I alter the duration of a block .
You can only change what a right swipe does in iOS . You can change what the middle option on a left swipe is , but a full left swipe will still be delete/archive . Check out settings - > mail , contacts and calendar - > swipe options .
Short answer ... No . There is no public API that manages the " Do Not Disturb " feature . There are also no frameworks that can achieve this . Googling would also say it 's not the kind of sandbox breakout Apple would be likely to allow in the future , either .
Actually , if you just want to remove the " @me " from the " from " drop down when creating an email ( I found this excruciatingly annoying ) , go to Preferences , Account Information , and then in the Email Address field , delete the " @me " address , so that only your cool . Mac is in there .
end question
start question
Is there a key command to shift Apple Mail focus to top ?
You should be able to press the Home key ( Fn + ← left arrow key on a laptop ) to go to the top . Alternatively , if you have a multi touch trackpad , you can use <URL> to set a gesture for Home and End . I personally think this is the best way , and I set a three fingered swipe down to Home and a three fingered swipe up to End
Autofocus on the iPhone is done via an electrical motor , moving the front lens backward and forward , and software that captures and analyses the image for best sharpness , which usually is the " sweet " spot . Recent versions of iOS probably offload the analysis to the <URL> available since the Apple A5 chip .
Depending on your Mac model and OS X version , you might check out <URL> , a dashboard widget that gives you more control over the sleep/hibernate behavior . This <URL> goes into more detail about what 's going on behind the scenes .
First , you 'll need to install the Terminal Plugin . Run any command from Quicksilver ? Just enter text mode ( by pressing . ) , enter your command and choose either the " Run Text Command in Terminal " action ( opens a new terminal window and runs the command ) or the " Run Command in Shell " action ( runs the command in the background and returns the results to Quicksilver ) Run a script ? Just browse to the script and choose the " Run " or " Run in Terminal [ ... ] " actions .
I had a conversation with Apple Tech Support yesterday regarding this issue , which I also find frustrating . The answers I got simply deepened and widened my frustration . This behavior was a conscious decision on the part of the programmers . The logic went something like this . The Activity window is a diagnostic therefore if someone wants to view it , they will want to view it in front of other windows anyway . They kindly left us with a Command +0 option to toggle its display on and off . I let them know that there are various functions that I use as diagnostics and I like to keep them where I can see them at a glance but where they do not interfere with my work . I let them know that I have always had the option to toggle the display on and off and that I also have always had the option to see the window in front of all others , all I had to do is click in it and it immediately came forward . What they did is to make a decision on my behalf that reduced my options and that is a way of thinking that I do n't appreciate . If they want to give me more options , that is fine but a decision to reduce options is usually a poorly thought out decision . I am still looking for a solution through the terminal that might allow me to regain my previous functionality . They were not forthcoming in this area . They simply said that at this point , we can not do it . Not a very good answer , certainly not the one I wanted to hear but I suppose having the answer , like it or not , is helpful in a way . Now I can dismiss the thought that it was an accident and decide how much time I want to invest in working around their poor thinking .
Try pressing C when booting . It might help you get pass safe-boot . or you can try using a key remapping app . Resources : <URL> <URL> .
A beep indicates that the shortcut that was pressed was not interpreted by apps on the system . This means the shortcut is already unbound , so it seems you 're having some problem with Sublime Text itself rather than the shortcut being bound to something else .
Yes and No . The game has to support the ability to run in windowed mode . If it does n't support it , then it will not be able to do it . Now , when it comes to games that do n't have the option in an preference menu , they can sometimes still support the feature , they just do n't advertise it . There are a few games that require you to edit a preference file to enable/disable certain things . Usually contained inside the game icon , right clicking on the game icon and hitting " Show Package Contents " will open the game 's directory and show you the files that make the game . Be very careful when doing this because editing the wrong thing can break the game . Usually if this option exists then it will be somewhere on the internet and you will be able to find out more about it by doing a search for that game . One such game that supports this is Cave Story + , editing the preference file can enable certain game modes and unlock features . Other games will work with a shortcut when running , usually : Now , if none of these are viable options , then you wo n't be able to do it . I hope that helps clarify things .
Aw crud , there are all sorts of " move focus to " commands in the Navigate menu that I somehow missed earlier ... The combo for " Move Focus to Editor ... " is Cmd-J , for example .
If you have asked Siri to Send a new Message to some person , Siri Normally asks " Do you want me to send it " when it thinks you have finished . Saying " Send " normally works . And Siri will say " Ok then I will send the Text message . . " I do not think there is a way to do it after you have used dictation . Apples dictations <URL>
Why not just add one yourself ? Open System Preferences → Keyboard → Shortcuts → App Shortcuts and click add . Select Safari , enter ' Show Top Sites ' for the menu title and enter a keyboard shortcut . This adds the shortcut to the menu option :
In the Go menu of Finder , there is an option titled Go to Folder ... with the keyboard shortcut ⇧ shift + ⌘ cmd + G . This will prompt the user to enter a folder path and it allows Unix conventions ( like using to refer to one 's home directory ; for example refers to the Documents folder under your home folder ) . You can also type part of the file or folder name and hit Tab for autocompletion of the name . Note that you can go to any folder using this option ( including your own folders for documents , music , downloads , movies and so on ) , not just system files or folders . Although OS X , starting with OS X Lion 10.7 , started hiding important folders like ( the folder under one 's home directory ) , the file/folder permissions system in OS X ensures that unless a user has an administrator account name and password , they can not damage anything beyond what 's within their own home folder ( and the contents within it ) . Even if you disable this command , a user can still view system folders like , , etc. ( although the user wo n't be able to modify or delete anything there without administrator access/credentials ) . The user can also open up and navigate through directories that Finder does not show and cause damage to . If you still wish to disable it and remove this option in Finder : Open ( from ) Type the command : To enable it again , use the command ( replacing with from the previous command ) : In conclusion , I 'd suggest not to worry too much about it . Instead , the following may help better : Keep the administrative account separate from normal user accounts Ensure that user accounts are only shared with trusted people ( or preferably , have one user account for each real user ) Share the administrator credentials only with trusted users Removing the option is more like <URL> , and is not really a fool proof way to protect the system .
You should be able to press the Home key ( Fn + ← left arrow key on a laptop ) to go to the top . Alternatively , if you have a multi touch trackpad , you can use <URL> to set a gesture for Home and End . I personally think this is the best way , and I set a three fingered swipe down to Home and a three fingered swipe up to End
This does n't appear possible . In order to utilize email functionalities from within apps , you will have to enable the Apple Mail app . I recommend turning off all notifications for Mail if you want to use the Gmail app as your primary iPhone mail client .
You want to change line 92 of the xml version of : Make a copy of the strings file : Convert the binary strings file to xml : Edit line 92 ( Yosemite ) of the file now on the desktop with your favourite text editor : Convert the xml strings file back to binary : Back up your existing file ! If you mess up , this will let you reverse your changes by removing - bak from the file name . Overwrite the old file with the new : Result :
The challenge is that Gmail uses " Labels " to attach to messages , and messages can have zero or more than one label , while IMAP puts messages in folders ( Inbox , Trash , etc ) and every message is in one , and only one folder . Thus , when Mail.app tells the Gmail server to delete a message from the Inbox the Gmail server can not reliably tell if it should just remove the " Inbox " label from that message ( leaving it with one fewer label , possibly still having other labels , or maybe no label but still avaialbe in the " All Mail " view ) or if it should more permanentaly remove the message completely from the database . The " fix " is to setup Gmail to not show the messages in multiple IMAP folders ( by turning off the " All Mail " folder ) and to also have the Gmail servers " expunge " the message when the Mail.app tells it so rather than doing it " automatically " , even though that ( default ) setting on the Gmail server seems to imply that the " auto " setting would be what was desired . I have not tested ALL of these settings ( I mostly rely on the " 30 days in the trash " feature of Gmail to empty things : <URL> ) and I have only recently updated to " El Capitan " but things do not seem any different from my Yosemite , Mavericks and earlier experiences . The way the system works seems to be the same using either a " regular " @gmail . com account or a " Goodle Apps for Domains " @yourdomain . com account . I do however have things set so that email does get put into the trash properly on the Gmail side of things , and it looks like there are settings available to delete things immediately and it works on my system in the way I want it too . So the detailed instructions are : At <URL> log in to your account and select the following : " Settings " - > " Forwarding and IMAP " Check " Enable IMAP " For " When I mark a message in IMAP as deleted " Check " Auto-Expunge off - Wait for the client to update the server . " For " When a message is marked as deleted and expunged from the last visible IMAP folder " Check " Immediately delete the message forever " ( I have my system set up to " Move the message to the Trash " and rely on the 30 days mentioned above ) You need to select the " Save Changes " button at the bottom for this to take effect . These settings will only invoke the deletion ( or move to Gmail Trash ) when the message no longer has any Gmail tags associated with it , or in other words , when an IMAP client removes the message from all of the IMAP folders . Since one of the " folders " that can be displayed in a Gmail IMAP client is " All Mail " , just deleting a message from the Inbox of the IMAP client will not cause it to go bye-bye . Thus we need to limit the " Labels " / " Folders " that Gmail exposes as IMAP folders : On Gmail select the following : " Settings " - > " Labels " Check the " Show in IMAP " checkbox for " Inbox " , " Sent Mail " , and " Spam " and UNCHECK the " Show in IMAP " checkbox for all of the other " System Labels " . Any user generated non-system label can be set to " Show in IMAP " . Note that unckecking the " All Mail " " Show in IMAP " checkbox might make a whole bunch of email that has no other labels ( is in no other IMAP folder ) no longer be visible in Mail.app or any other IMAP client . Using the Gmail web interfact to search up these " orphaned " messages and adding the Inbox label or some other label that is shown in IMAP would make them visible again to Mail.app . With the Gmail system set in this manner , I find that the best Mail.app settings to use are to have the " Mail " - > " Preferences " - > " Accounts " set up for the Gmail account in question set so that " Mailbox Behaviors " is set to only " Store on the Server " for the " Sent " and " Junk " mailboxes . I have those two boxes checked , and have the boxes for " Drafts " and " Trash " unchecked . These two need to be unchecked because we have set the Gmail server to not expose those boxes as IMAP folders . I only rarely go to the Gmail web interface , doing almost all of my interactions with Gmail through Mail.app or the iOS Gmail app . Some of these settings might have alternative setups if one did a lot of website interactions . For Mark 's desired outcome of deleting the messages immediately , the above settings should work - when a message is moved or deleted from the Gmail Inbox and Spam folders , it should immediately be deleted from the Gmail server . The message could still be available in Apple 's trash can , but that is not linked to the server 's trash can . ( If the " Move the message to the Trash " setting was set on the Gmail server , the server will move it to the server 's trash and thirty days later it will be gone ) . I do not know if Mail.app will send the " expunge " signal to the Gmail servers immediately , or only after the local Mail.app trash has been emptied , or on some other syncronization schedule . An alternative might be to have the Gmail server expose the server trash an an IMAP folder and have Mail.app store the trash on the server . With the " Immediately delete the message forever " server setting set , this should behave
There is a command line wireless utility called , but it is not in the user $ PATH to be able to call it without remembering where it is . so to make it available at the line , and put it where it really belongs , in Terminal : And when calling it , gives great info about the wireless network you 're connected to : for syntax and quick help : outputs what looks like a man page , for examples and full help , call command without arguments :
The <URL> summarizes the most important new features . If it 's " really any better " or not , depends entirely on your personal taste : I do like Mail.app 's new list view where the list appears as a side bar , with chunks of message text in addition to the subject/sender information . You can further unclutter the interface by hiding the Mailboxes tree when you do n't need it . The search feature has also got better : things that used to require " Smart Mailboxes " ( multi-condition filters ) you can now do with a quick search in the search bar . Apple also seems to have stolen some good ideas from Google Mail -- like Thread view , which is activated in Mail for Lion by default , and groups together messages that belong to the same thread . A thread shows up only once in the message list , showing the number of messages . It 's very convenient to move/delete a whole thread in this way . Also a neat feature copied from Google : the quoted text of original emails in replies is hidden by default , but you can unfold it by clicking " show more " ( with a nice visual effect of unfolding paper ) . However , if you love Thunderbird 's special features , Mail.app is probably not for you . It 's missing the Thunderbird 's superb Tabs feature , i.e. you can only view one email folder / search result at a time ( this might actually bring me to consider switching to Thunderbird again ) . Personally , I like Mail.app because it 's much better integrated with the other OS X apps I use , such as Address Book , iCal and iChat . Example : I get an email from a colleague , and if she 's currently online in GoogleTalk/Jabber or Bonjour ( local network chat ) , a green dot appears next to her name directly in Mail . Ca n't have that with Thunderbird ... Other example : dates , times , addresses and phone numbers are recognized automatically in email text and can be added in one click as iCal event or to complete an Address Book entry . Also , I 'm not sure whether Thunderbird 's email database is indexed and searchable with Spotlight . Would n't want to miss this feature : searching for an email by subject or even message text without opening Mail in the first place .
Not possible.I have non-Apple earphones with a mini remote with three buttons - the central one being the one to be double-pressed . I have turned the Internet upside down and have n't found anything close to this , even on jailbreak ( my ipod touch is jailbroken ) .
The Dock process on OS X is responsible for more than just the actual Dock on your screen . It does a bunch of background stuff , including Dashboard . Most notably , the Finder wo n't function properly if the Dock process is n't running , so turning it off completely is pretty much a no-go without breaking OS X in the process . The best I can suggest is keeping the dock hidden , and make the size as small as possible so you 're less likely to trigger it . You can also position it where it 's least likely to get in the way - as you probably know , you can put it on the left , right or bottom of your screen . But you can also pin it to a particular corner , just use the command . Type that command in Terminal ( replace with to change which corner it goes in , or to go back to the default ) , then to restart the Dock and apply the change .
end question
start question
What are the benefits of iPhone jailbreak ?
I jailbroke my iPhone 4 few weeks ago , specifically for the MyFi , which allows you to tether your 3G connection to your other WiFi-enabled devices ( iPad , laptop , etc ) , without paying $ 20 to AT&amp;T every month and being limited by 2Gb of data . MyFi is $ 19.99 , but you pay it once and enjoy free tethering after that , especially if you kept your $ 30 unlimited data plan ( I did ) . Initially beyond that I saw very little reason to use other apps from Cydia store , but now I slowly changing my mind , since I found few real gems . SBSettings - gives you quick panel to toggle WiFi , Bluetooth , 3G and few other functions . This is extremely handy , especially when you 're trying to preserve your battery ( long day on the conference or something ) and you do n't want to dive into Settings each time you want to turn WiFi on or off . SBSettings is free Notified Pro - this is notification management done right . Notifications have horrible usability in iOS and this app ( $ 4.00 for Pro version , but I think they have the light one for free as well ) fixes it by introducing notifications list similar to one Android has , which you can activate from status bar or via other customized shortcuts Frash - which is Flash for iPhone , right in your mobile Safari . Frankly I have n't use it for anything serious yet ( and it does n't support my favorite Flash game <URL> ) , but it 's a good app to wow your friends , since everyone knows that there 's no Flash on the iPhone and you can always prove people wrong . My favorite app IntelliScreen - it 's a paid app as well , but it 's extremely handy . It gives you a highly customizable lock screen very similar to Windows Mobile 's Today screen , so you can look at your calendar , emails , SMS and other info without even unlocking your phone . Really , really handy . One other thing that I did n't try personally yet , but going to soon is sync with your PC or Mac over WiFi . I hate to do it over a cable . Now , on the bad side : You have to be more careful and knowledgeable about stuff you 're installing . That includes both apps ( which are , in general , more buggy and may conflict with each other or with iOS ) and stuff like official Apple iOS updates that you ca n't install unless you know that there 's a jailbreak for them . Cydia store ( and others like RockYou app store ) are less informative than AppStore and quite often it 's hard to figure out what certain app does Payment ( while they allow multiple ways including AMazon payments and PayPal ) is usually much more painful Apps quite often are more expensive ( think $ 4.99 - $ 9.99 range ) , but on the bright side they worth it
You can scrape that information off photos on flickr taken with an iPhone 4S : <URL> Here are a few examples of extremes . The dark end seems to show a max ISO of 800 and max shutter of 1/15 , which several dark photos agreed with , and none of the ten I looked at went further , so here are two examples : <URL> 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 800 <URL> 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 800 Looking at very bright photographs , I saw a few claiming very high shutter speeds ( 1/9259 and 1/2600 ) but none of them matched the same exif format for the shutter speed field as the rest of the iPhone 4S photos I reviewed , suggesting that these fields were modified in post processing . The lowest shutter speed I saw that matched the format of the other 4S exif files was 1/1842 , and the lowest ISO was 64 : <URL> 0.001 sec ( 1/1842 ) 64 <URL> 0.001 sec ( 1/1842 ) 64 This should answer your question for highest and lowest ISO , and highest and lowest shutter speed . Keep in mind I only sampled a few dozen photos on flickr , it 's possible I missed the ends of the ranges . A random sampling from the " interesting " section , showing the mid range of shutter speed and ISO combinations : Shutter speed ISO 0.008 sec ( 1/122 ) 64 0.05 sec ( 1/20 ) 200 0.008 sec ( 1/120 ) 100 0.002 sec ( 1/550 ) 64 0.025 sec ( 1/40 ) 64 0.002 sec ( 1/464 ) 64 0.004 sec ( 1/242 ) 64 0.042 sec ( 1/24 ) 64 0.059 sec ( 1/17 ) 800 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 640 0.006 sec ( 1/170 ) 64 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 640
While quite possibly you do end up with a lower battery life in your tests than the one advertised , you need to take into account the following : Test conditions Many factors will determine the outcome when testing the battery life , like signal strength , iPhone settings , screen brightness , the actual websites being loaded , background processes and much more . FYI , apple discloses it 's test conditions , you can <URL> . If you truly want to compare , you should as best as possible mimic the test conditions Apple used . Test accuracy While I have no problem taking you for your word your battery drops 1 percent exactly every 5 minutes while browsing , that does n't necessarily mean you end up with 8 hours and 20 minutes of battery life . There is quite a large margin for error when you only sample such a small period , and the only real way of checking Apple 's claims would be by actually trying to surf the web for 10 consecutive hours . Concluding , while Apple 's test conditions are semi-optimal for their testing results , they have a better reputation for test accuracy than some other manufacturers . They do test the iPhone with almost factory default settings , but specifically for browsing the actual web sites being loaded can still make a noticeable difference in the test results . From the info you provided , your battery seems perfectly fine to me and within the margins of difference one would expect .
It keeps holiday music out of my playlists , off my iPhone , until I want to overdose on them from December 24th through 25th every year . For that alone : I love the check box .
AirDrop works outside of whatever WiFi networks are around and does n't need a base station . It is like a mesh network where all the devices just talk between each other . If nothing else is " sharing " the road - you get the full speed . The further away you are or the more interference , the slower it gets . AirDrop will work by passing the data from Mac to Mac so it will get the file there ( although slower ) if it has to jump once or twice along the way . That being said , for two close machines , the transfer speed should be the max wireless speed between your two machines . Hard drives are almost always faster reading and writing than WiFi speeds , so the radio link is generally the slowest . However , all of that is just theoretical . You can check your actual speed by opening Applications > Utilities > Activity Monitor Click the Network tab on the bottom and you should see stats about how fast the data is being sent and received . Detach from WiFi base stations to let AirDrop get all the hardware if you want the fastest transfers - leave it on if you need internet while dropping that large file .
IMO , if you have a UNIX background with previous experience with Emacs , it might make sense to " carry it forward " onto OS X . As a new text editor , I personally do n't think it makes sense . Yes , it is a fully capable text editor and it can do everything , but as you 've said , it does not integrate well into the OS , which for me is a major hurdle . I use vim on OS X because its my editor of choice on Linux ( where I do much of the work that earns me money ) , however with that said , I 've started learning and using BBEdit .
My understanding is only Cydia . Everything that changes the phone via jailbreak comes in via Cydia . :)
I once was in a similar situation to what you described -- I 'm an American and brought my U.S. MacBook to the UK . A couple observations : U.S. keyboard layouts are substantially different from the UK ones . Many common punctuation characters , including quote marks , are mapped very differently . I found UK keyboards too awkward to use and did virtually all of my work on my own U.S. keyboards . U.S. keyboards do not include the pound sterling symbol or the negation symbol used in the UK . You can get them by using Option key combinations , but that can be a bit of a pain . As bmike mentioned , if you need a keyboard repair you 'll face a substantial delay . Someone spilled a drink on my MacBook in a pub towards the end of my stay , and about a third of the keyboard was shorted out ; when I took it in to an Apple Store , they warned me they would need to hold the computer for several days while replacement parts arrived . I could n't spare the laptop for that length of time , so I spent the last couple weeks of that trip using an external keyboard with my MacBook , and repaired it when I got home . ( That option , of course , wo n't be available to you . ) All in all , I do n't think I would recommend it for you . That # 150 is buying you freedom from a lot of hassles .
You can use a provisioning profile as long as he gets a new provisioning profile before the current one expires . Apple also has a business store ( basically a corporate App Store ) but I think that is way over the top for what you are trying to do . The most legitimate/safe option is to deploy a provisioning file and update it each year ...
You can change this setting later at any time . It does n't affect the AppStore . The region setting will affect the availability of certain features which are n't available in all regions yet such as Apple Pay and Apple News . Apple News is only available if you set your region to Australia , UK or US . Apple Pay is additionally available in Canada .
<URL> should do the job . CCC ( Carbon Copy Cloner ) creates a bootable backup , and preserves all your files , and in the right hierarchy . You can also have incremental backups ( it only backs up items that have changed since the last backup ) . You can schedule CCC to backup regularly . CCC also has the ability to backup over a network . I also like the Growl notifications . <URL> is another handy little application . We used to use it for backing up before Time Machine came out . It has the ability to do incremental backups , so you wo n't be backing up the whole hard drive ; just the data that 's changed . Unlike CCC , it costs $ 27.95 . Another option would be <URL> or <URL> . Both will have the option to make a perfect backup , invisible files included . Rsync can also backup incrementally , which means it will only backup what has changed . With rsync and cp , you can also schedule it to backup with <URL> or <URL> .
The <URL> , specifically the <URL> , has pretty detailed information about it . Depending on several factors , I summarize the following : Resolution max . recommended high profile encoder settings , for a 16:9 aspect ratio over wifi : Dimensions : 1920 x 1080 Total bitrate : 40000 kbps Video bitrate : 39000 kbps Keyframes : 90 Framerate A frame rate of 10 fps is recommended for video streams under 200 kbps . For video streams under 300 kbps , a frame rate of 12 to 15 fps is recommended . For all other streams , a frame rate of 29.97 is recommended . There is tons of more info , but in short , the specs say : " Yes ! " you can stream a 1080p movie through Airplay . And there are several examples of " Airplay-enabled-games " , like first person shooters , that work just great . However , the crucial factor will be your wifi network as this will determine your lag/delay and - probably - most limiting factors . So there will be a significant delay on any 802.11 N based wifi network . And therefor , there will be lag with latency-sensitive audio/video interactive purposes , like games . For movies , it should be no problem though . Summarizing : The limitations of wifi transfer speeds is n't near to your perfect world when connected through a cable .
There are no native IDE available for iOS . Apple restricts unsigned code from being run on all iOS devices , thus making an IDE on iOS impossible . ( this is possible on android to run code directly on the device that is written on device ) Your best bet is to get a regular text editor such as <URL> or anything that can checkout documents and edit them from git , svn or dropbox . You will never be able to run this code on iOS , so you will need to push it to your repository and compile and run it via a remote desktop client or via a SSH terminal . To really fully automate this process you would have to edit your code , push it to the repository , compile it on another machine and then have that compiled binary shipped to your device using a distribution mechanism like <URL> via a series of scripts ( test flight has an API for this ) . It 's not impossible , just hard . Another option is to use a remote desktop client and remote to an IDE on a PC to edit and run your code there .
' Safe ' is a broad term . If you keep a backup though , there 's not much that can go wrong as you can always restore that backup . In addition , as there are no updates available for the 3Gs , you can safely restore to a jailbreakable version of iOS if anything goes wrong . As the last version of iOS that can be installed on the iPhone 3Gs is iOS 6.1.6 , this can be jailbroken using <URL> . Download it , then follow the instructions .
I 'll admit I 'm biased because I 've been working with it for years now , but <URL> has one of the best MIDI editing interfaces going . If the Pro version is a little too much for you to stomach there 's an " Express " version that 's pared down when it comes to plugins and samples , but has the same excellent MIDI editor . On the cheap-but-effective side you 've got <URL> which will run on OS X and includes MIDI editing facilities . You can try it out for free and it 's $ 40 ( at the time of writing ) to buy it if you like it . Hard to beat that deal . And then in between these two running the gamut of price and features you 've got a whole slew of other options : Cubase , Sonar , Abelton , etc. . Each of them offering slightly ( or not so slightly ) different interfaces and feature sets .
In general , extended warranty plans are a healthy-sized profit center for the company offering them . This implies that unless a product turns out to be less reliable than predicted , on average ( mean average ) customers will be better off paying for their own repairs without the warranty . However , if one ca n't afford to self-insure for abnormal or even normal deviations from the average , something like AppleCare will lessen the downside financial risks . Thus , I suggest ( and buy ) AppleCare only if an Apple product seems to be getting numbers of reports of below average reliability ( e.g. the Duo 2xx and PowerBook 5x00 product lines ) . For other Apple products , maybe put the money in a savings account instead , and there is a good likelyhood that you 'll end up ahead after a decade or two of Apple products .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
The Absinthe tools are really easy to use - jailbreaking has gotten much easier than it used to be . However , the dev teams are hard at work on getting their tools to work with the latest iOS version/chip version combinations so it 's hit or miss with if you will actually be able to do it . Absinthe is currently only compatible with 5.0.1 and 5.1.1 ( you can see greenpois0n.com for a bit of info ) . One thing to look out for is that it can be confusing but being that you have a 4S that narrows it down a bit - you will probably need to wait until they update Absinthe to jailbreak , unless you are fortunate enough to not have updated the firmware yet . On the subject of unlocking , that 's a different story - in case you 're not sure of the difference , unlocking means being able to use different carrier SIM cards where as jailbreaking means being able to use non approved apps ( it 's a common mistake , so that 's why I mention it here ) . Unlocking can be done a few different ways ( in the US , I 'm unsure exactly the process in other countries ) . In the US , Sprint WorldWide customer service will unlock your phone if your account has been in good standing for 90 days ( I 've had 5 iPhones unlocked this way ) and as long as there are no other holds on your account . AT&amp;T will unlock a 4S that is n't on contract ( I 'm unsure if it has to be an AT&amp;T phone originally ) and I think Verizon Wireless has a similar policy ( but I do n't know for certain ) . One thing you will want to watch out for are street vendors that say they can unlock your iPhone - they ca n't , do n't waste your money . iClarified actually has a pretty good walkthrough wizard for both unlocking and jailbreaking here : <URL> ( unlocking ) and <URL> ( jailbreaking ) Hope that helps . Cheers !
I found the direct download links for . ipsw files from <URL> . The links below are for build 11A465 of iOS 7.0 : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Should you be a reviewer or get lucky with an early delivery , the 5c and 5s firmware update - build 11A470a of iOS 7.0.1 are below courtesy of an <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , I 'd kindly remind people to not be greedy - downloading all the builds means someone else looking for one build might be prevented from getting a download .
Apple has n't really discussed specifically what Low Power Mode actually does . Its main underdocumented feature is that it underclocks the processor , reducing performance to increase battery life , but there 's a few other tweaks it makes to the system as noted underneath the switch . As shown in these screenshots , Low Power Mode reduces the performance by ~ 30 % . Source : <URL> Apple lists the following as features modified by Low Power Mode : Email fetch Hey Siri Background app refresh Automatic downloads Wi-Fi associations Some visual effects Source : <URL> More details are provided in the developer documentation ( <URL> ) : Reduce CPU and GPU performance Pause discretionary and background activities , including networking Reduce screen brightness Reduce the timeout for auto-locking the device Disable Mail fetch Disable motion effects Disable animated wallpapers Source : <URL> Apple encourages developers to take advantage of this feature by implementing a lower power state in their apps . This means that this feature may increase battery life through support in third-party apps . Your app should take additional steps to help the system save energy when Low Power Mode is active . For example , your app could reduce the use of animations , lower frame rates , stop location updates , disable syncs and backups , and so on .
end question
start question
If I delete a paid app purchased through the Mac App Store , can I redownload without paying ?
Yes . Just go to the " Purchases " tab and click " Install " by the app you wish to reinstall : Well-behaved apps should retain settings , etc upon reinstall , as merely deleting the app from / Applications is not sufficient to remove that information from your system . This may not be the case if an <URL> is used .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
Unfortunately there is no easy one-click solution to downloading all your previously purchased apps . Best you can do is look through the list of purchased apps and re-buy them ( you will not be charged again ) .
As @Timothy pointed out in the comments , the App Store will work normally on a jailbroken device . As for your own apps , you can run them , but if you do n't have a paid developer account it is harder to get them on the device . If you have a paid account , you can use the normal methods to install and run them . A device which is not jailbroken will refuse to run any app which is not signed with an Apple-approved certificate . When you jailbreak , the code which performs the checks is modified . It will still only run signed apps , but those apps can be signed by any certificate . Therefore , you can create your own certificate to sign your apps with . However , the normal methods of installing an app will perform the check and refuse to install it . This means you need to find an alternate method of installation , most likely using SSH or USB to copy a package over and modifying permissions .
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
The programmatic and direct feedback channels to Apple and the developer are as follows : Report a problem from the purchase summary in iTunes on a computer . This also is useful if you wish to ask for a refund in the case where the app was paid and does n't function in your judgement . There is a general problem link in the store as well as a link to developer support . These are best for technical or minor bugs that do n't ruin the app experience or if you expect it to get fixed and continue to use the app . You can write a formal review that Apple may eventually publish detailing why you feel the app is buggy or non-confomant with design guidelines or rules . You can rate the app in stars Those three procedures are standard ways to provide feedback about buggy apps or problematic purchases . Deleting the app sends less formal feedback as your devices stop asking for updates to that title .
The Mac App Store does not currently have the concept of an " authorized " or " deauthorized " computer . If you download an app legitimately from the Mac App Store , it is DRM free ( at least with regard to execution ) , and completely functional on your computer . The immediate answer to your question is actually that you can not deauthorize your computer in the Mac App Store :) .
While I 'm not abosultely sure , how achieved my result , but after a reboot the update for one app-store app is gone now . What I did : the following is tested on old Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app ( free from appstore ) , before my tests the app-store showing an available update for it . Right click on app , select Show package contents go to " Contents " Move the following files and folders to some backup place ( folder ) reboot If that does n't work , remove these additional items from the package contents : - ( folder ) - ( alias ) Maybe it is not enough , ( in my tests i did the following too ) , try : Go to ( alt-click on Finder 's Go menu , select Library ) Caches move to backup location the folder reboot After the above steps , the AppStore do n't showing the available update for the " Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app " . Warning : all the above is tested only in one app , need more testing , it is absolutely without any warranty and do n't blame me when your computer will burn , get grabbed by extraterrestrial aliens or anything other ...
There is no official way to do so , but if you 've jailbroken your iPad , you can use <URL> . It 's a Cydia Tweak and I can highly recommend it . It does exactly what you want .
The rules for the Mac App store are converging towards that of the iOS App store . The iOS App store currently allows the use of almost any programming language ( even Basic or Assembly ) , as long as everything required for that language ( code , interpreter , runtime , libraries , etc. ) is bundled with the app . For instance , many iPhone games have a built-in Lua interpreter or a C# runtime . If a language used by an app requires any separately installed support other than that built into the Lion Mac OS distribution , the review guidelines say that app will be rejected . Cocoa and webkit ( for Javascript ) are currently built into the Mac OS X distribution . So , if you want to use Java , you might be able to get away with including your own complete JVM and all needed runtime support libraries for Java in the app bundle . BTW , XCode supports using C++ and Objective C++ code , as well as Objective C and its plain C subset . But you may have to use some Objective C APIs to make an application compliant with all the UI guidelines , even in a mostly C++ app .
If it 's a 2005-2009 model then NO ! You absolutely can not plug directly from a AC power source to a computer that does not have a built in transformer power supply , which the Mac mini 2005-2009 model does not have . The AC current must be converted to DC current first and that is what the Mac mini 's power supply does . Starting in 2010 the Mac mini used a built-in power supply and the power cord does not use a power brick like in previous modles , it plugs directly from wall to computer .
You can set the release date through <URL> . The <URL> in the iOS Developer Documentation has a page titled Managing Your App in iTunes Connect , where the section <URL> states : Use iTunes Connect to set a date when the app is available on the store . For example , you can choose a date that immediately releases the app to the store after it 's approved , or you can set a later date . Using a later availability date allows you to arrange other marketing activities around the launch of your app . Sign in to <URL> . Select Manage Your Apps . Select your app in the Recent Activity section . Click Rights and Pricing . Choose a date from the Availability Date pop-up menus . Optionally , edit the other fields in this form . Click Save . Changes you make to Rights and Pricing go live immediately ( expect 24 hours for a full refresh of the changes on the store ) . Read the <URL> for more information on managing your app on the App Store .
You can copy/paste the application from one Mac to another , they will run as they are self-contained ( no files required in other locations ) . You may not even need to login to the App Store to run them . I had to install Xcode and Final Cut Pro on a very restricted network environment where the App Store is blocked , the apps ran fine . Licensing is an issue if you use the apps in a non-personal environment ( businness , education ) . Download and install work the same way .
No . You need his username and password to update . As alternative you can create an account for your company , and then download Xcode again .
Quit app . Delete folder . To avoid still display you have downloaded x bytes of y bytes , four solutions : Disregards . Kill process ( type into ) . Logout / login . Reboot . With Lion it 's shadowed under random folder . Well ... Open Launchpad . Find your app . Keep alt key down . Click on cross to delete it .
This is fine , providing there is no link within the app to your website to purchase access .
I 've been using <URL> to get this very same information . The filtering and categories make it easy to setup saved searches that cut the results down to just applications and application types you 're interested in monitoring . The UI is nicely aligned with the Mac App Store as well , which is what drew me to it in the first place .
Not presently . iOS multitasking however is quite different than say the multitasking in Android or Mac OS X . The app unless it specifically is using one of the 7 methods to run in the background is " frozen " and wo n't consume any resources until it 's brought back to the forefront . Essentially the fast app switching feature as part of iOS 4.0 is a large part of why you saw so many apps being updated to work with iOS 4.0 multitasking .
The Apple discussions thread <URL> is exactly what your are looking for : No . An adult would have to do that for you . To have a developer account you must be 18 or older . ... You can always start a corporation and the individual age restriction is not relevant anymore .
Awesome , I figured it out . Run this command , which rebuilds LaunchServices : And everything should be back to good ! Immediately after running , the App Store allowed me to re-purchase the app . Source : <URL>
end question
start question
TiVo videos on a Mac ?
Did you post your ctivo issue over on Github ? The other place to look for options is tivocommunity.com
Though Quicktime does not ( and I could n't find a codec plugin to support it ) , <URL> apparently plays AVCHD video files ( . mts ) . There is also a way to use VLC to <URL> .
Here is the Mountain Lion end user license agreement that is your best starting point for what Apple feels it has actually sold you for your money . <URL> Of course , you 'll want a lawyer to give you advice on what is customary , but the artwork is n't explicitly called out as something you are prohibited from using commercially . However , you would want to be very sure of trademark infringement issues if a reasonable person would recognize that you are re-using Apple 's works for commercial benefit . I personally would steer clear of using this and pay someone to provide you with your work or grab thing that are shared more explicitly under a creative commons license . Apple does indicate that you can use fonts under some restrictions ( make something with them - do n't just resell them ) and you will see in the application specific licenses that in general you do n't get intellectual property rights to any assets included in the software unless it 's called out explicitly as done for <URL> . The obvious uses like loops for music software are given knowledge base articles , but items like wallpaper do n't get an article and you are expected to be able to read the license and perhaps between the lines of what the licenses do n't say . Basically , you probably have n't been granted the right to re-use the assets , so use common sense if you do n't know it 's OK or have asked for permission to use it . You might find out that Apple has licensed these and you can use them , but I do n't see any wording to call this out in the license terms .
I think in OS X you should use for " cron jobs " . But otherwise your task should be easy to do with a cronjob This should run everyday at 23:55 Update You should specify the output location of WGET with
The last version of the OS to use this font as default was <URL> . For Mac OS 8 , Apple decided to discard this wonderful part of their brand 's identity , and commissioned David Berlow of the Font Bureau to design Charcoal . Apple actually released System 7 for free download <URL> . Conceivably you could load up System 7 in an emulator like <URL> and get the font out somehow . Or unpack the system images provided by Apple , though I do n't know which software you would need for that . Apple abandoned Chicago as of OSX , as evidenced by the outrage <URL> . Locally , I can buy an original iMac running OS 9 for 50 EUR . So you could buy one of those and transfer the font :-) UPDATE : extracting Chicago from System 7 Download the System 7 disk image from Apple for free <URL> Unpack System 7.0.1 . smi.bin with " The Unarchiver.app " ( free on the App Store <URL> ) Convert System 7.0.1 . smi to a dmg image using Disk Utility using the menu item ' Images > Convert ' Open the resulting System 7.0.1 . smi.dmg and get the Fonts.image inside Convert Fonts.image to a dmg using Disk Utility Open the resulting Fonts.image.dmg Enjoy your retro goodness .
What is your reason for not wanting to switch the entire keyboard binding to Greek ? If your reason was just that switching by the menu is a bit cumbersome , then you could set up a keyboard shortcut instead , for very quick layout switching . With this , it takes just three keystrokes to type a λ ( or any other Greek letter ) . I frequently need to type isolated Greek letters within a mostly latin-alphabet setting ( I 'm a mathematician ) , and I find this setup very convenient In detail : Add a Greek keyboard layout to your input sources , under System Preferences > Keyboard > Input Sources : <URL> add a keyboard shortcut for switching to the most recently-used layout different from the current one , under System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts > Input Sources . I use Command ⌘ + Option ⌥ + Space , which does n't ( iirc ) conflict with any system default shortcuts : <URL> Now you can get a λ by typing ⌘ + ⌥ + Space ( switch the input layout to Greek ) ; ( actually produce the λ ) ; ⌘ + ⌥ + Space ( switch back to whatever layout you were typing in before ) . And , as a bonus , the rest of the Greek alphabet is at your fingertips as well !
I just do it by connecting the iPhone , then opening the folder . . attach device , open it in explorer open " Internal Storage " on device open " DCIM " folder open " 800AAAAAA " ( ? ) folder drag and drop pictures and files from device to somewhere else on my computer
Yes its possible . The limitations that need to be over came are three fold . There are two things that prevent 10.8 from installing on a MacPro 1,1 . The first is the lack of EFI64 . Mountain Lion as has no support for 32bit kernel and extensions so it will not boot . This is true of many early Intel macs . The other thing is that checks are made by the installer ; against a supported machines list . If your mac is n't on the list , it refuses to install . It 's important to note that an upgraded graphics card is virtually essential . The stock 7300 GT is n't supported and will cause Kernel Pannic . I do n't think the X1900-xt is either , my 8800GT did odd things on DP1 but may be OK on newer builds . Ideally Id try and source a HD5770 or other newer card . Solutions : New compatible graphics card will need to be obtained . The first issue can be dealt with by using the Chameleon bootloader . Chameleon will emulate EFI64 and therefore load 10.8 . Customization of the 10.8 Installer by adding your machine kind back onto the list of supported machines . Sources : <URL> <URL>
You may want a second network adapter , but first try adding a second WiFi connection in the network preference pane . You could pick a static IP address that is valid , but outside the DHCP 's range ( or reserved and not assigned via DHCP ) . Then your iPhone could proxy against the static IP and set up IP forwarding from the command line . It would be easier to have a second interface and let the Mac software handle the routing for you . Also , be aware that firewalls should be off or configured to allow inbound traffic from the iPhone .
Try <URL> Easily transfer photos and videos between iPhone , iPad , Android and Computer . No cables or extra software required . $ 2.99 in the app store .
This seems to work on my AppleTV 2 and MacBook Air . Last night I turned on the AppleTV to browse my main library on a Mac Mini and the MacBook Air library showed up as well , even though the lid was closed and the computer was asleep . I have not experimented enough to know if this works with the power adapter unplugged . This was a very pleasant , but apparently undocumented , feature to discover . Perhaps it arrived in the most recent AppleTV update .
Yes ! You only need to enter from safari and not from the app . You choose the song you want to listen to , press the home button , swipe up to multitask and press play !
Yes , you can easily copy virtual machines between systems . The easiest way would be to just create the virtual machine on your linux machine , and when you are ready to copy it over , you can export it as an appliance . This will give you a single file to copy over to you Macbook Air . Once you have the file copied over to your Air , you can then import it there , and you will be all set to try it out .
Did you post your ctivo issue over on Github ? The other place to look for options is tivocommunity.com
There should be a preference thing on YouTube to select HTML5 , but they 've reorganized the page so many times since I last tracked it down that I have no idea where it is now . Instead , I have ClickToFlash installed ( it 's under " Most Popular " in the Safari Extensions Gallery ) ; open its preferences ( Safari Preferences ... > Extensions ) and you can tell it to always use HTML5 for YouTube and other sites that support HTML5 in place of Flash .
This answer will be short : <URL> . Has everything you need except the rotation . It 's a media player , not a video editor . To alter the playback speed in VLC : Go to to → . You can also alter the playback speed using ⌘ = and ⌘ - . For rotation , as user <URL> notes in the comments below , you can go to - > → → . Bonus : A list of some <URL> for OS X.
I have n't tried this myself . But I know if you have a video open in QuickTime the Youtube option is available there . So basically you can 1 ) select " Reveal in Finder " from the File menu , 2 ) open the video in QuickTime and then 3 ) share to Youtube . Good luck .
Yes , Disk Utility can do this . Use then select your file . In the dialog that follows , select . Disk Utility will insist on saving the new ISO as a file , but it is really an ISO . You can rename it to in the Finder , if you like . At <URL> there are screen shots that walk through this process .
You should try opera <URL> it fast and works well . Caveat : Opera only works on Macs with Intel-based processors . If you have a PowerPC chip ( G5 ) , good luck . Opera 12 wo n't work .
Yes - you will want to start with the <URL> source code or compiled installer that Apple publishes and then pick whatever device you like that integrates to this infrastructure . Here is Apple 's starting point and a few more links that may help you in your search for a biometric authentication solution : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Terminal command to determine the last time a MacBook Pro was unplugged from AC Power ?
You might be able to use ioreg to determine the cycle count of the battery . A low cycle count indicates that the battery has not been discharged and charged very much . " Cycle Count " shows how many times the battery has been cycled . You can read more about battery cycle counts <URL> . Another idea is to use pmset to log the state of the system 's power . You could , in theory , have that dump to a file to investigate after some time has passed . Take a look at the <URL> . will log the state of system 's power . As the device is unplugged or plugged you 'll see the log update . This could show how frequently a notebook is unplugged and charged . If it remains plugged in for long spans of time , or is often drawing from ' AC Power ' then you 'd know if it 's mobile or not .
You can find some information about the guts of an iPod Shuffle <URL> . Also because the selling point of a Shuffle is price ( and portability ) while still maintaining the Apple quality I do n't think Apple would put much more components into it than what is absolutely necessary .
<URL> your USB stick , to be bootable , must be setup for <URL> / GPT .
The second form is useful for doing things like and is often aliased to . If you do n't want to rely on functionality and prefer an external command , serves a similar purpose : The whereis utility checks the standard binary directories for the specified programs , printing out the paths of any it finds . Because does n't use but rather the result of it may lead to different results .
No , it does not . You need the discrete GPU to run an external display . Funny though , because the integrated GPU 's of the MacBook Air can power up to a 27 " thunderbolt display . But that 's how Apple rolls .
You might be able to use ioreg to determine the cycle count of the battery . A low cycle count indicates that the battery has not been discharged and charged very much . " Cycle Count " shows how many times the battery has been cycled . You can read more about battery cycle counts <URL> . Another idea is to use pmset to log the state of the system 's power . You could , in theory , have that dump to a file to investigate after some time has passed . Take a look at the <URL> . will log the state of system 's power . As the device is unplugged or plugged you 'll see the log update . This could show how frequently a notebook is unplugged and charged . If it remains plugged in for long spans of time , or is often drawing from ' AC Power ' then you 'd know if it 's mobile or not .
I decided to go with <URL> following installation guidelines from <URL> .
You can list specifically which audio devices your system is using in Terminal : Another way you can determine if you have the combination audio port is when you 're viewing you will have an output option that shows up on the input tab .
Have you looked at <URL> ( nVidia only ) or <URL> to do just this ? Both technologies are made to leverage the GPU .
To start emacs just type emacs ↩ This tells the shell to look for an executable file emacs in a directory listed in the PATH environment variable . When in emacs run the command tetris that is escxtetris The controls are the arrow keys Note that something seems to be wrong with the score file e.g. it wo n't save high scores etc. .
You are halfway there . Use . hushlogin and add cat / private/etc/motd to the first line of your shell 's login rc file .
You can send the Apple event : The four letter codes for Apple events are listed in . See <URL> for more information .
You can install it using <URL> . Just type the following : If you do n't have homebrew installed , you can simply do it by typing :
You could use the mount command from terminal : This will give a print out of everything mounted on the system and details about what protocol was used and by who . Here 's in example output :
The command you are after is <URL> . This informs all users that the machine is going to be shutdown and tells all apps to close files etc. . The command takes a parameter - h , - r or - s to shut down , restart or sleep the Mac . The command has to be run as root so you need to use sudo . e.g. to reboot the machine immediately e.g. to shutdown the machine in 60 minutes
If you are talking about a Thunderbolt equipped 15-inch MacBook Pro then yes according to this : <URL> Interestingly you can also drive two from a 13-inch MacBook Pro , it will disable the built in display .
If you connect 18 V to the power/ground pins , your Mac will be powered off the 12 V battery , but it wo n't charge : <URL> To charge , the laptop needs to identify the charger by communicating over the signal pin in the middle . <URL> Solution : Sacrifice an apple charger by cutting the cable and connecting the correct pins to your DC/DC converter . I recommend using the 45 W ones so your DC power supply does n't have to be very big .
You can find this information along with much other battery and/or system information from the command This command , according to its man page , does : ioreg displays the I/O Kit registry . It shows the heirarchical1 registry structure as an inverted tree . 1 : heirarchical [ sic ] Using a filter by class name ( for battery ) to get only battery-related information : From . Will print something like this : The field you are looking for is . For convenience , filter it out with ( unit is milliamp-hours , or mAh ) : Your field may not display as its value . I 'm using a 13 " mid-2014 rMBP , but you may be using another system with different battery ratings . Apart from battery information , can be used to find out more about your system and other peripherals - somewhat like a command-line System Information tool . If you 're looking for a code-implementation of this command , take a look at <URL> . It 's one of the coolest Swift libraries I know of . Disclaimer : not affiliated to SystemKit or Beltex . Just a happy user of SystemKit .
There is the simple answer and the clever answer . The simple answer is listen for the external drive spinning . If it 's sleeping , you will not be interrupting data transfer ( but you will be yanking an open filesystem from a sleeping computer but that 's not a new issue introduced by Power Nap ) . The more clever answer is to observe other things that may be happening like network traffic by sniffing the traffic and seeing if the machine is sharing files or available to ssh into if you have sharing turned on . This takes more work and an iOS device or another computer and certainly wo n't be faster than just opening the lid of the Mac and knowing it 's not napping anymore . In the end - it 's probably worth re-training your workflow to just open the lid and eject things properly . Since Power Nap is only supported on Mac that have Apple supplied integral SSD and ridiculously fast wake times , the delay to perform the eject cleanly is less than 10 seconds excluding however long your external drive takes to wake .
According to <URL> the 85W power adapter is the right one . However , there seem to be issue with " T " style ( the old ) vs. " L " style ( the new ) : see <URL> . It seems that for some people , a workaround does the trick : Turn off your computer , flip over the laptop and remove the battery , hold down the circlular button on the battery for 10 seconds , the green light should go out . Re-install the battery and turn your computer on . Your new charger should work fine . If that does n't work , you need to call Apple support to arrange for your power adapter to be replaced with a " T " style adapter : Apple is aware of the issue with the pins being at a different depth in the new chargers with the " L " shaped connection . After having two new ones not work , I contacted tech support . They sent a new version of the old charger with the square mag safe connector . It works fine . Edit : Apparently the <URL> should fix the " L " style power adapter issue on older MacBooks .
end question
start question
Why is the Location Services icon always present ?
It 's a new feature in ios 5 called " region Monitoring " The reason it 's active even if the app is closed is that this feature runs in iOS 5 core and notifies all apps that are registered when they have entered or left a specific geo-fence . Reminders does that when you use a location based reminder . Although the location icon appears at all time . This actually has very minimal impact on the battery due to apple really optimizing this feature by using cell and wifi mostly .
It 's a new feature in ios 5 called " region Monitoring " The reason it 's active even if the app is closed is that this feature runs in iOS 5 core and notifies all apps that are registered when they have entered or left a specific geo-fence . Reminders does that when you use a location based reminder . Although the location icon appears at all time . This actually has very minimal impact on the battery due to apple really optimizing this feature by using cell and wifi mostly .
What you want can be achieved using Paste and Match Style Edit > Paste and Match Style Keyboard shortcut shift + ⌘ + V <URL> This will paste in your clipboard content matching the current style of text in your note .
The command-line tool can be helpful for this , but learning to use it is a bit tricky . Running will return a list of all available service types that currently being advertised . ( The list is per interface , so there will be some redundancy . ) If this is done on a Mac with no active network connection , the list will of course only contain services running on that machine . Using that list , you can request information about the individual services types by running things like ( which lists iTunes Home Sharing instances ) , and then , given an instance name , you can run to lookup information for a particular instance . To be honest , though , this whole process is rather tedious , and it 's exactly what <URL> was built to do , so I highly recommend using that . ( The app might be ancient , but it still works . ) Whichever way you do it , though , it may not always be clear what program is responsible for a given service entry . You can use the strategy given in <URL> to try to map service entries to running processes based on port number , but this may not always work . Another strategy is to run something like which remains open and reports when instances are added or removed , then , one by one , quit various apps and ( assuming it 's not a system service ) see which one 's quitting triggers the removal message .
Yes . The " location services " work the same way on all iOS devices , while the specifics of how that data is obtained are hidden from the application . This Apple support article might be helpful to you : <URL>
It 's very likely to be the speaker . Because yes , speaker use magnets . It 's on opposite side of the top speaker only and looking at <URL> ( courtesy of <URL> ) there is nothing else that is magnetic .
The microphone and speakers on Apple laptops are located in the lower case , not in the display . What you are noticing are the permanent magnets installed in the display to keep the lid closed without a mechanical latch .
For location-based reminders , you only need to have the GPS turned on . Keeping wifi on helps with locations because it allows the device to pin-point where you 're located . Wifi is not required , however . Bluetooth is not required for location reminders unless you 're using iBeacons . If you 're using iBeacons then bluetooth is required .
This bug is known to the Chrome developers and has been filed under ... <URL> : Dictionary keyboard shortcut does n't work in Lion Basically the problems are timing issues for some websites which take too long to respond to information needed to show the dictionary . This is what resek@chromium.org says : There 's likely not much that we can do here . We have to block the UI thread to implement this feature , which is bad and so that 's done on a timeout . If the web page takes too long to respond for the information we need to display the popup , we give up and unblock the UI . If we did n't do this , Chrome would look like it 's hung , waiting on the web page to respond . We collect timing information about this , and most pages succeed well below the timeout , but there 's also some class of pages that do not respond in time ( more than 1500ms , which is what starts to be perceived as sluggish/hung ) .
If you have access to Photoshop , then I highly recommend <URL> . Back when I doing this , Iconbuilder made the creation of resources for a variety of platforms a snap .
I was going to chalk it up to the developer just being lazy and selecting the default value and tab-completing when creating their app . However , I tried it out for myself ( create a new iOS app project , edit the file and add the following new row ) : You can see that the first auto complete option for mode is , meaning the developer had to consciously choose the second option for it to be right sided as in your app . This supports stuffe 's conjecture that this is done because most users are right handed . The screenshot above are the options for iPad . The iPhone has the same set , except for the second one , which is absent . AFAIK , Apple does n't advocate the use of a specific orientation as a default . Their <URL> only say the following re : <URL> Launch your app in your supported orientation , regardless of the current device orientation . For example , if your game or media-viewing application runs in landscape only , it 's appropriate to launch your app in landscape , even if the device is currently in portrait . This way , if people start your application in portrait , they know to rotate the device to landscape to view the content . Support both variants of an orientation . For example , if your application runs only in landscape , people should be able to use it whether they 're holding the device with the Home button on the right or on the left . And , if people rotate the device 180 degrees while using your application , it 's best if you can respond by rotating your content 180 degrees . On iPad , strive to satisfy users ' expectations by being able to run in all orientations . The large iPad screen mitigates people 's desire to rotate the device to landscape to " see more . " And , because people do n't pay much attention to the minimal frame of the device or the location of the Home button , they do n't view the device as having a default orientation . This lack of awareness of an app 's default orientation leads people to expect apps to run well in the device orientation they 're currently using . As much as possible , your application should encourage people to interact with iPad from any side by providing a great experience in all orientations . So as you can see , they do n't advocate for any particular orientation and encourage the developer to support all orientations . Also see <URL> . However , <URL> uses an example with code for right-oriented apps ( i.e. , home button on the right ) . So another explanation -- apart from the developer 's own UX inclinations -- is a copy-paste effect :)
Sadly , ( as of iOS 4 ) , this can not be done . The location field of an event does not recognise an address , no matter how perfectly you enter it . [ UPDATE ] In iOS 5 , the location field in any calendar event will ( if properly formatted ) hyperlink to the Maps app .
For most of the " services " ( called Daemons or Agents ) you can check : In terminal : For example only MySQL you can filter the output of the command above , like . Note is to make the filter case insensitive . These can be controlled with a GUI named Lingon . There are some other " services " , that will install themselves in : For those , there is a command like to view whether it is loaded and running . But there is n't a generic mechanism to stop , start or restart . In which catergory your MySQL installation falls is impossible to say , as your question is lacking details on what exactly you have installed , what its source is , how it was installed , etc. .
From a software standpoint , it 's perfectly fine to leave your Mac on continuously . It can even be considered recommended , since Mac OS X has a number of optimization scripts that run on a daily , weekly , monthly basis , but can only do so if the computer is on . From a hardware standpoint , it depends on your model . If you have an older ( pre-2008 ) MacBook with a removable battery , leaving it on and plugged in continuously will kill the battery quick . In that case , you should remove the battery from the machine , only putting it back in occasionally , charging it to around 60 % , to keep it in good working order . The new MacBooks with non-removable batteries are designed to be able to be left plugged in constantly . The battery has circuitry to optimize the charge cycles so that the life of the battery is not adversely degraded over time ( more than just normal use causes ) .
Seems like the problem only was that I had managed to sort the events " manually " ( View > Sort Events > Manually ) which hid the newly created events in-between my rather large amount of existing events . Sorting by date ( View > Sort Events > By Date + Descending ) shows my new events first in the list as they should .
No , this is currently not possible due to restrictions with 3rd-party keyboards in iOS . From <URL> Custom keyboards , like all app extensions in iOS 8.0 , have no access to the device microphone , so dictation input is not possible .
Maybe in your Home folder ? It 's the default folder the terminal points to . Try to open it through the Go menu in the finder .
Every version of Mac OS X has QuickTime . QuickTime Pro is/was an optional paid extra , which included extra codecs and additional functionality . The situation with " classic " Mac OS was rather more complicated , but I 'm guessing you only care about OS X.
Apple works very hard to conserve battery life , and determining location , no matter if it is through GPS , cellular , or wifi connections takes extra battery . The arrow displays any time a 3rd party app requests your location . For instance , when you open Maps , the arrow will likely turn on because Maps needs to pinpoint where you are . The arrow may also turn on for system level locations services ( settings can be adjusted in Settings > Location Services > System Services ) , and depending on your settings , the arrow may or may not appear for that . As for Location Services being on or off , you can set that in the settings ( Settings > Location Services ) , but if you see the arrow , it is likely on already . The arrow only appears when location services are active , and may or may not show when it is just on .
That functionality is how the Finder works at present . Sizes made to a dialog in an app should be saved across open actions ( but the window position is n't saved as this window gets drawn to be centered and a bit below the active window . ) Changes to the underlying window are supposed to affect the open dialog . Are you using safari or some other program to " browse " ? Have you looked at software like <URL> to add better tracking of the recent folders ? I do n't know if it will help with the sizing , but it has been doing the default folder trick for ages and ages and is very stable and well supported . Lastly , do check how the Apple apps like Safari , TextEdit and Pages work . Many third party applications do n't implement file open / file save / file choose according to the user interface guidelines . Much of this is fairly technical but documented at developer.apple.com in the Human Interface Guidelines . See the open and choose discussion <URL> if you want to know how this happens in code . In a nutshell - OSX does save folder and size while a program is running but not generally saved after the speficic application is quit . A programmer can make their program do anything - so even if OSX wants to go to the last folder , if the program says to always open the home folder you will need a plug in like DefaultFolder or that program to change .
end question
start question
Can there be two separate Time Machine Backups on the same external drive ?
If you make two different partitions in the external HD , you can easily have the two different Time Machine backup in the each partition . You only need to specify the partition to use for the MacBook during the initial Time Machine setup . Then the Mac would know which partition to use for its backup the next time you connect the external HD . The same goes for the second MacBook . By doing so you could limit the amount of space taken up by he Time Machines of both Macs .
Yes , it is possible , and great fun ! One way to synchronize apps is using Korg 's WiST technology . This allows apps on multiple iDevices to synchronize over WiFi . They maintain <URL> on their site . Another method is to slave all of your iDevices to a single MIDI clock ( e.g. a drum machine that sends clock over MIDI ) . There are multiple ways to get MIDI into your device including the Alesis IO Dock , the iRig MIDI , and the Line6 MIDI Mobilizer . This is a little more hassle than the WiST approach because you have to wire up a bunch of cables , but it opens up a larger group of apps since there are many apps that support CoreMIDI that do not support WiST . When shopping for apps in the App Store , look for any that say they support CoreMIDI . <URL> has a good starting list , but is by no means comprehensive . Finally , in addition to this multiple-iPad fun , you can also make use of MIDI between apps on a single iPad . e.g. Running a sequencer that is controlling a synth app running in the background . Not all CoreMIDI apps support it , but many do . I 've been having a great time using the Genome sequencer app to control synths such as Animoog . It 's a great time to be a musician and have an iDevice ... much is possible now that was impossible only months ago !
I found a github project a short time ago , which handles the " read the backed-up files " part of this question : <URL> That is good enough for my purposes .
I 've done this several times and never had a problem . Just make certain your external drive uses the correct partition scheme ( GUID for Intel Macs ) and format . I once forgot to change the partition scheme and , as a result , could n't run firmware updates until I reformatted the drive .
If you are backing up to an external disk , the fastest way is to disable Time Machine erase the backup drive/partition with DiskUtil re-enable Time Machine OTOH you wo n't loose anything if you keep the old backups for now . As every time slice within TM is a full backup you can still recover up to " now " .
<URL> Time Capsule , Mac OS X v10 .6.3 or later : How to transfer your back up from an existing Time Capsule to a new one For this process , you should leave your computer in the same room as the Time Capsules , or use one Ethernet cable to connect your Mac to the Ethernet port on the existing Time Capsule , then use another Ethernet cable to connect from the existing Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . Configure your Time Capsule for your network . See the documentation that came with your Time Capsule for information about setting it up on your network . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Slide the Time Machine switch to Off . Open a Finder window . Locate both Time Capsules listed in the SHARED section of the navigation pane on the left of the Finder window . Note : If you do not see your Time Capsules in that section , choose Preferences from the Finder menu and make sure " Connected servers " is checked under SHARED . Select the name of the new Time Capsule in the navigation pane . The default name is " Time Capsule xxxxxx " , with xxxxxx being the last digits of the ID printed on the bottom of the Time Capsule . Mount the volume by double-clicking the name of the volume in the Finder window 's main section . The default drive name is " Data " . Open a new Finder window by pressing Command-N , or by choosing File > New Finder Window . Repeat the previous 2 steps with the other Time Capsule , to mount it . Drag your backup disk image from the current Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . This can take some time to complete because your entire backup will be copied . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Click " Select Disk ... " , then select your new Time Capsule . Perform a Time Machine back up . After the back up , you can remove the Ethernet cables if desired and configure your wireless network to your liking .
In Finder , click Go = > Connect To Server ... In the Server Address field , type " afp : / / xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx " ( IP address ) or " afp : / / your-ngnas-name . local " Connect using the credentials you use to connect to the Time Machine service . Finder will open a window in / Volumes/ReadyNAS . You should see a list Time Machine 's . sparsebundle files . At this point , you can delete a . sparsebundle . It 's also possible to Ctrl + Click on a . sparsebundle and select " Show Package Contents " to browse inside . UPDATE Sometimes files inside the sparsebundle package or the package itself will be locked , preventing deletion . To unlock : Get Info > General > Locked > uncheck .
Since I 'm running Lion , and TimeMachine uses a different file transfer ( AFP ) , I ended up setting up a FreeNAS box , and hooking a cheap WD HDD to it . If I was n't running Lion , I could have simply shared the WD HDD from my Windows 7 machine . The AFP protocol adds a bit of complexity .
Instead of using the finder to copy your files - use a program like ' <URL> ' or ' <URL> ' . This will get you the closest to the two drives being exactly the same . However , I should warn you that when I did this myself , I could not get Time Machine to treat the new drive as if it were the old drive . It insisted on keeping a backup of it as if it were a new drive . ( however , in my case this was the OS internal drive and not an external data drive ) In the end I decided that it was OK that Time Machine did n't know it was the same drive , as I now had two copies of the data ( before time machine even backed up ) from the original flaky drive , and the new drive . I just had time machine back up the drive as if it were brand new . I have n't had any regrets about it . Hope this helps .
According to information from <URL> , the answer is no , it will not support encrypted Time Machine backups to network-attached storage . They 're specifically mentioning Time Capsules and Airport Extremes . The issue Paul Eccles mentioned looks to be related to whether you can backup to NAS with Time Machine at all without regard to encryption status . The link referenced also seems to indicate you ca n't use Time Machine encryption on direct-attached storage , but that may be because you can use Disk Utility to encrypted a direct-attached volume instead . Commenter Fracai calls out the classic standby of creating an encrypted disk image , storing that on network-attached storage , and mounting that for your Time Machine backups . I 'll also point out the discussion on that page ( which is slightly inaccurate , but mostly on ) wherein commenter TrumpetPower ! cautions encrypting backups . This is a point worth repeating here . I 'll rephrase ( more precisely and accurately ) what TrumpetPower ! wrote : The purpose of a backup is to preserve availability of data . The purpose of encryption is to prevent availability of data without the key used to encrypt the data . If you encrypt a backup , you add complexity to a process designed to simplify and preserve access to your information . With complexity comes increased probability of failure . Thus , the chance that you lose access to your backed-up data goes up . Do yourself a favor and make sure you understand when and why you might wish to encrypt your backups and think hard about how you 'll ensure you have access to your encryption key when it counts .
Time machine keeps a local store of backups if the time machine drive is not available . This is transferred to the backup drive when it is next connected , so you do n't even miss an hourly save . You can see these highlighted in a different colour if you enter time machine a few hours after being disconnected from the backup drive . Source : <URL>
Time Machine allows you to backup multiple macs to one drive . You just plug it in , set it up , and you 're good . If you look at the file system , you can see separate backups for both computers . At our home we currently do this with a Mac Mini and a MacBook . The Mac Mini is always plugged in , and the MacBook gets updated every couple weeks . We use a 1.5 TB drive from Western Digital . Given your description , I think this solution with your 2TB drive should work well for you . The data backed up by both macs will not be the same , as no matter how hard you try , both computers will wind up having subtile differences , so the data wo n't be " exactly " the same . Backing up only one system does n't seem ideal to me , but you can restore a MacBook from a Mac Mini backup . It works fine . Also , you realize that the drive must be connected for you to access the photos and music that you have stored there . You 'll have to factor that into your storage solution .
No , you want be able to stream music to two airport express units simultaneously from an iOS device such as an iPad or iPhone . However , you can stream simultaneously from iTunes running on a Mac or PC . For example , you ca n't have speakers playing in the kitchen and speakers playing in the dining room at the same time unless they are connected to the same airport express . If you have them connected to two airport expresses , you can choose kitchen or dining room but not both . You can play to both if you stream from a Mac or PC using itunes . However , there are apps that will let you control the Mac or PC from your iOS device but you ca n't do it natively .
Looks like if you create a blank space on your laptop side of things and place it in the Desktop 1 spot all the external display apps will go there on disconnect . Only weird thing is when you reset your computer if you are n't plugged into an external monitor then some of the apps seem to move around a little bit , otherwise this method seems to be exactly what I was looking for . Cheers
The short answer is Yes . If the Time Machine drive is accessible to Windows ( via MacDrive or anything else ) , then it can be corrupted and directly destroyed . For this reason , I recommend turning off your Time Machine drive while in Windows . Another possibility is that modifications to your primary drive could cause its ID to change , which would break its association with its existing Time Machine backups . The old Time Machine backups would still be there on the backup drive , but they would be treated as being backups of a different system . It sounds like this is probably what happened . It could be because you ( or something ) renamed the primary drive or otherwise tried to change it at the root level . But since you saw a MacDrive error , its more likely a glitch in MacDrive . There 's not much you can do to prevent that except not use it . Try running a Disk Utility check on all drives , preferably while booted from a DVD or an external drive . That will at least make sure nothing worse happened .
Apple tried encrypting each user 's files in FileVault ( 1 ) and did away with that when FileVault 2 arrived . The easy / recommended way to do this is make no user an admin so that they can not get around the prohibition to look at other user files . Also , you will have to physically secure the backup drive or trust that no one breaks the policy to not access that drive . One easy thing you could do is have each Mac encrypt the backups by ticking that switch to prevent some users from seeing files from another computer but hat wo n't prevent same computer users that are admin and know what to type . The downside there is for several computers managing the passwords becomes onerous to a less than ideal step up in privacy . I would recommend you set up storage on a Mac mini server and have it serve up time machine to each Mac so that you can control access better than using TimeCapsule . The performance will go up substantially along with the cost . The setup is fairly easy and there are inexpensive books to guide you if needed . AppleCare also supports server so hat is extremely inexpensive for three years of phone support for enterprise caliber support .
According to this document <URL> The MacBook Pro ( 15-inch and 17-inch , Early 2011 ) and later have Thunderbolt2 and can handle two thunderbolt displays ( 2560x1440 ) . According to this document <URL> The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Late 2013 and later ) can handle one MST 4K display at 60Hz . You can run one 4K monitor off of the Thunderbolt display at 60z and a second off HDMI at 30Hz . the two thunderbolt ports are connected . Once you try to connect a second 4K monitor to the other port , you will go over the bandwidth and the second monitor will go dark .
Short answer , no it 's not . As with most of the file transfer protocols ( SMB , FTP , NFS ) it transfers data in plain text .
Not using the built-in hardware . Only MacBooks with a discrete graphics card can drive a second external display ( and even then , only one of the new Thunderbolt displays ) . The MacBook Air does n't have a discrete graphics card , only the Intel HD 3000 one that comes with the CPU . The same applies to the MacBook Pro 13 inch and the 15 inch ones that do n't have one of the AMD Radeon graphics cards . You can drive an external display using a USB connected graphics card . For example I have one of the <URL> adapters , which works very well for everything except 3D graphics and full screen video ) . I use <URL> for my second external display on my MacBook Pro 13 .
Unlike the Time Capsule , the Airport Extreme does n't support being a backup destination , no matter what drive you use . It is possible to <URL> , but this is unsafe - the AEBS lacks features that help protect data , and without them , the slightest network error can make your backups useless . Some of the technical reasons for this have been explored here : <URL> However , you can look for a network-attached drive that supports Time Machine , such as WD 's My Book Live . These are drives that attach by ethernet instead of USB , and they implement the file-sharing features that Time Machine requires .
end question
start question
How to back up Windows 7 on Boot Camp to a Mac-formatted external drive ?
I keep my documents on the Mac side as I 'm pretty much only using Parallels to run my BootCamp install , so that way they 're backed up . I do n't really mind doing a fresh reinstall of windows if something goes wrong .
Your preferred setup is not possible : OS X ca n't share an NTFS disk with Windows for backup because Time Machine needs HFS + ( from <URL> ) : Manually preparing a new disk for Time Machine ( ... ) If you want to partition the disk , click the Partition tab and select a layout . Make sure " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " is selected in the Format menu for the partition that will be used for backups . Click Apply . Luckily , you do n't need two separate drives . Using <URL> you can trick your computer into thinking it is connected to more than one drive , although there 's only one . In this case , two partitions will suffice , one HFS + and one NTFS . ( Why only one NTFS partition although you back up 3 Windows computers ? Because Windows stores backups in folders named after the computer name so there are no conflicts whatsoever ( see this <URL> ) . You can use one NTFS partition to store backups of multiple Windows computers . ) I 'd recommend that you create the HFS + partition on your Mac first , then , on your Windows computer , format the other partition to NTFS : Plug your drive into your Mac . Open Disk Utility ( in Applications/Utilities ) . Select the drive and select the Partition tab . Create two partitions . Format the first partition as HFS + ( and give it a name like " Time Machine " ) . Leave the other partition as " Free Space " . See <URL> for more details . Eject the drive and plug it into your Windows computer . Format the second partition as NTFS . When you 're done , plug the drive again into every Mac/Windows computer and select the corresponding partition as backup drive ( see <URL> for OS X and <URL> for Windows ) . To prevent the NTFS partition from being mounted every time you connect the drive into your Mac add this entry to ( as explained <URL> ) : Replace with the NTFS partition name . This setup works like a charm . I have a very similar configuration : My external 1 TB drive , which I use for backing up my Mac and my wife 's Windows PC , has two partitions called " Time Machine " and " BACKUP_WINDOWS " :
Instead of using the finder to copy your files - use a program like ' <URL> ' or ' <URL> ' . This will get you the closest to the two drives being exactly the same . However , I should warn you that when I did this myself , I could not get Time Machine to treat the new drive as if it were the old drive . It insisted on keeping a backup of it as if it were a new drive . ( however , in my case this was the OS internal drive and not an external data drive ) In the end I decided that it was OK that Time Machine did n't know it was the same drive , as I now had two copies of the data ( before time machine even backed up ) from the original flaky drive , and the new drive . I just had time machine back up the drive as if it were brand new . I have n't had any regrets about it . Hope this helps .
I 'm having the exact same problem . I tried holding the option key when rebooting to see if I could boot from the USB key but I could not find a way to do this , so I installed <URL> ( then rebooted twice ! ) and THEN plugged in the USB key and the next time I rebooted it did show up as an option to boot from the USB key . I tried that and the windows installer loaded and it found the new bootcamp FAT32 partition . It said I could n't install to the bootcamp partition because it requires NTFS . <URL> suggests " simply format the partition using the Windows installer 's built-in utility ( in other words , as part of the installation process ) " so I did that continued with the install and everything works fine !
I 've done this several times and never had a problem . Just make certain your external drive uses the correct partition scheme ( GUID for Intel Macs ) and format . I once forgot to change the partition scheme and , as a result , could n't run firmware updates until I reformatted the drive .
If you copy the CD to a disk image on the PC , you can put the image on a USB stick and transfer it to your Air . I am not sure how to do this on Window , but I 'm sure you can find out how to do this somewhere . <URL> looks like it should do what you want . Also look at <URL>
Yes you can , here are the steps : Connect your external disk Open Finder and go to move the Aperture Library.aplibrary file to a location on your new disk Open Aperture and go to preferences ( from menu or by pressing ⌘ + , ) On the General tab , change the location of the library to where you copied the Aperture Library.aplibrary file That 's it , the library is now on your external drive .
Okay so here are the prerequisites for making this work over wifi : Prerequisites : Programs Running : iTunes Services Running : ( Located in Start - > Control Panel - > Administrative Tools - > Services ) Bonjour Service Apple Mobile Device Service wifi : iPod connected to wifi and so is your computer iTunes Issues : If you have all of the prerequisites above set , and on your iPod you enter ( Setting - > General - > iTunes Wi-Fi Sync ) and you find the Sync Now button is still disabled do the following : In iTunes click edit - > preferences Click the Devices tab . Click the Reset History button . Now if you look at your iPod Touch again the Sync Now button should now be enabled . ( found in the <URL> )
One option is to boot from your Mac OS X Install CD and edit the partitions using the Disk Utility ( found in the menu ) . This can be very handy for removing partitions that just wo n't die .
Where is the iTunes library directory ? What is its filesystem location ? Go to iTunes > Preferences ... Choose the Advanced tab . There you will find the path to your iTunes folder . If I move my library from the laptop and to an external USB-connected drive , will my music and TV shows still play ? Yes , if iTunes knows where to find them . See following question . I 'd like to keep some of my music on the local drive so I can actually listen to it when I 'm out and do n't have the external drive with me . Is there a way to do that ? Under the Advanced tab in the preferences , make sure Keep iTunes Media folder organized is checked . Choose Change ... next to iTunes Media folder location to choose a new location on your external drive . Then click OK . Now go to File > Library > Organize Library , select Consolidate files and click OK . iTunes will now copy your files to your external hard drive . The files on your internal drive will be retained . Go to your original iTunes Media folder on your internal drive and drag it to the Trash . Do not empty the trash before making sure that you can quit and relaunch iTunes and play songs without any trouble . Now move any music files you want to be on your internal drive to a folder on your internal drive . When you move these files , iTunes will not be able to find them , as iTunes will look for them in the folder on your external drive . This will result in dead listings with exclamation marks if you try to play them . See this answer to remove dead listings : <URL> . Now go to iTunes > Preferences ... and to the Advanced tab again . Uncheck Copy files to iTunes Media folder when adding to library . Choose File > Add to library ... and select the media files that you moved to your internal drive . Cheers . For the record , it is also possible to have more than one iTunes library and choose which one to load when starting iTunes . The above solution allows you to have one library with files at different locations .
[ I 'm answering for anybody ending up here , as the original OP most probably is no more interested . I still refer to his problem description . ] I tried using Testdisk 6.13 ( latest stable release ) and it worked like a breeze for both NTFS and HFS + . I had the luxury of an empty HFS + partition , so I just removed it and recovered it using Testdisk - it was rather fast . I followed the following tutorials : <URL> <URL> If you indeed just removed one partition , it should be fast . Otherwise , it might take more time , but probably waiting is the most sensible option . But if you 're really impatient ( as I am ) and you know very well what you 're doing , you might want to read on . A ( dangerous ) tip to speedup Testdisk from my own experience If the partition entry is just removed , Testdisk will look for the start of the partition in sensible positions ( by default , at the start of every cylinder , since partitions should usually be cylinder-aligned ) , ignoring the existing partition table . Once it thinks it found a partition and you confirm its guess , it will skip searching inside the partition . If there is a lot of free space ( without a filesystem ) before the partition , this might be very slow . So I could speed up search a lot by creating a filesystem in an empty partition before the missing one , so that Testdisk would skip that space . However I knew perfectly where to create this filesystem , especially because it did not border with the lost partition . Otherwise , creating such a filesystem can easily destroy the wrong data - hence only attempt this if you know very well what you 're doing .
In Windows 7 running in bootcamp : To right-click using a trackpad : Place three fingers on the trackpad and click the trackpad button . Just make sure you install the Bootcamp drivers that are on the OS X Installation DVD
You may not have noticed it , but Oracle Java 7 installs a new item in System Preferences with a feature that automatically checks for updates by default , and prompts you to install them . Thus , this is taken care of .
I would recommend using a tool such as Paragon . That way you do n't have to go through the backup , delete , create process . <URL> Check out his article as well ... <URL>
If you use Disk Utility to image an HFS filesystem into one dmg file , the resulting file is portable no matter what filesystem you store it on . Where things get complicated is incremental backups . If you want incremental backups and a DIY solution , choose a sparse disk image and use rsync to update the band files that you store on NTFS , just like Time Machine does to Time Capsule . If you really just want a painless backup solution , you might select a professional tool set such as ( in alphabetical order ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Since I listed some of the more popular incremental backup software packages ( some are hosted , some you can self host ) , the one that seems to fit your requirement the best is the free CrashPlan software that would be self hosted and need a computer connected to the NTFS drive to host the Mac data as a backup destination .
I have done this myself . First install REFIt , an utility for dual/triple booting . It adds a useful selection of OSes on startup . It also includes a EFI/MBR fixing tool which is very useful . You might need to restart 2 times . Using the Disk Utility , add 2 more partitions to your disk . Format them FAT or FAT32 . Restart your machine , and this time , assuming you have installed REFIt , instead of choosing OS X , navigate to the partition inspector ( the hard drive icon ) . Just apply the settings it suggests . Reboot your mac and put the windows 8 disc in . The setup will allow you to format the partitions . Format both of the partitions . Install to the first partition . After installing drivers ( optional ) etc on win8 , restart and install win7 to the other partition . Sometimes the Win8 will find Win7 installed and integrate the bootloader . That means that in REFIt , choosing either one of Win7/Win8 wo n't boot . Choosing Win7/Win8 from REFIt will give you the option to boot Win7 or Win8 . Hope this helps . NB : Your Windows partitions wo n't be named . REFIt wo n't know which is win7/win8 . Or you can name it when you 've installed the first Windows .
You can definitely have any number of OS X installs on any number of partitions . Use the Startup Disk preference pane or hold down Option at boot to choose which partition to boot .
The folder to open is controlled in a special field in the filesystem header . You can change this entry using the command as described <URL> . To review the current settings , use the following command : You can change which folder of the mounted volume is opened in Finder on mount : You can reset the information completely as well : Note that using these commands make the volume unbootable , so be careful if you need this . Of course , they also do not work for volumes with a read-only filesystem/medium , such as a CD/DVD .
No , Time Machine does not do this . The only reliable way to back up your BootCamp partition is to boot into Windows and run Windows-compatible disk backup software from within Windows , to back up to a separate external hard drive formatted with NTFS . Winclone has not been updated in a long time and is not a useful solution .
I 've realised that all the time the external drive is NTFS file system , it wo n't share it , but as soon as I formatted it to Mac OS Journalled FS , it appeared straight away .
end question
start question
How do I run Gimp on Mountain Lion ?
Apple decided not to include X11 in Mountain Lion : <URL> But there is now a native version of GIMP for mountain lion which requires no X11 : <URL> However , if you need to run the old version of GIMP you can download <URL> as mentioned in the apple support document linked above . When you try to run GIMP again , you can find Xquartz in Enjoy GIMP !
Yes . As long as you 're running the most up-to-date Snow Leopard version ( 10.6.8 ) , you can directly upgrade to Mountain Lion , as detailed on <URL> . Just download from the App Store and you should be good to go .
If you dropped your computer and it stopped booting right after that , you may now have a defective hard drive . I do not recommend attempting to re-install the operating system ( Mountain Lion ) , as this may cause data loss . My current recommendation is to confirm that you have a good backup of the data that is on your computer . If you do not have a backup , it may be necessary to attempt data recovery from the drive that is in the machine . If you do have a current/valid backup of your data , I would recommend attempting to boot from another disk ( CD/DVD , USB flash drive , etc. ) , and attempting to open Disk Utility to see if the software is reporting SMART failures with the drive . Alternately , very poor performance or clicking sounds while attempting to view/access the drive may be indicative of a defective drive . Regardless , at this point , a system re-install is not likely to help with your issues ( based on the problem description ) . If you are at all concerned about data loss , or are hesitant to attempt diagnosis/troubleshooting of your machine , I would recommend taking the machine into an <URL> for further assistance .
Back up your data . Boot into the Recovery System by holding ⌘ + R during early boot . Select Disk Utility and format your drive where OS X and your files were stored on . Quit Disk Utility and select " Install Mountain Lion " .
As mentioned in your linked article , the default place for all included importers has been System > Library > Spotlight since 10.4 and it 's still there in ML , including RichText.mdimporter .
AD user @patrix did a great AD blog post on new terminal commands in Mountain Lion . You can find it here : <URL>
To change the default to local just write in a terminal : To change back to iCloud first , type :
No , but you can upgrade right from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.8 Mountain Lion when Mountain Lion ships next month ( for $ 20 USD ) , without having to spend the extra $ 30 USD to go from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.7 Lion .
Removing CSS3 blur filters seemed to fix the issue . I just went through almost every single file and line until Safari 6.0.2 stopped crashing . Nevertheless , I still have no idea why a single line of CSS3 , , was causing these unexpected crashed .
Though not directly answering your question this line will give you the time in seconds since the last user interaction which comes from what OS X considers to be an idle user . ( independently of screen-savers or black displays . )
Have a look at this hint : <URL> You can ( temporarily ) show the location of the current desktop picture by executing the following command from the Terminal : You can revert this behavior by executing the following :
The last version of the OS to use this font as default was <URL> . For Mac OS 8 , Apple decided to discard this wonderful part of their brand 's identity , and commissioned David Berlow of the Font Bureau to design Charcoal . Apple actually released System 7 for free download <URL> . Conceivably you could load up System 7 in an emulator like <URL> and get the font out somehow . Or unpack the system images provided by Apple , though I do n't know which software you would need for that . Apple abandoned Chicago as of OSX , as evidenced by the outrage <URL> . Locally , I can buy an original iMac running OS 9 for 50 EUR . So you could buy one of those and transfer the font :-) UPDATE : extracting Chicago from System 7 Download the System 7 disk image from Apple for free <URL> Unpack System 7.0.1 . smi.bin with " The Unarchiver.app " ( free on the App Store <URL> ) Convert System 7.0.1 . smi to a dmg image using Disk Utility using the menu item ' Images > Convert ' Open the resulting System 7.0.1 . smi.dmg and get the Fonts.image inside Convert Fonts.image to a dmg using Disk Utility Open the resulting Fonts.image.dmg Enjoy your retro goodness .
If your mac shipped with Lion , you should be able to run the hardware test by simply holding D when your computer boots . If your mac did not ship with lion , you will need the original install disks to boot into the hardware test mode . <URL>
In most Apple apps that have first-run tutorials , you can still access them through the Help menu . For example in iTunes there is Help - > iTunes Tutorials , and in iPhoto there is Help - > Welcome to iPhoto . To get them to show on launch again , I think you will have to edit the preferences files for each application . This is a pain because they do n't implement this in a consistent manner . All the preferences are located in . The library in your home folder is hidden by default in Lion , so you will have to use <URL> . It 's different for each app , but here 's an example . In com.apple.iWork.Pages.plist change to Numbers and Keynote are similar but uses that should be changed to . iPhoto has the same key , as well as , but changing them does n't seem to work . If you ca n't find the necessary key , deleting the plist file will often work . This wo n't break anything , but be warned that you will lose any custom preferences for that app .
I suspect it will be serial number based , or model number based . As the new models will no doubt all have serial numbers and indeed model identifiers ( iMac 9,1 for example ) that will allow them to clearly identify which machines are applicable , and allow the upgrade as appropriate . In previous " up-to-date " schemes it has been this way , and not reliant in any way on what is installed on your drive . If you are transferring to a different boot volume , I would recommend using an image file rather than Time Machine . You can pick up a USB enclosure for your SSD , image the existing drive onto it , and then simply swap them over - this is how I have done things in similar scenarios .
You can disable it through Terminal with the following command : It can be re-enabled with : With OS X 10.10 Yosemite or 10.11 El Capitan , you can go to System Preferences → Mission Control and switch Dashboard to off .
The feature description is a bit misleading . It appears that by " close Notes " , Apple means " close the main Notes window " , not " close the Notes app " , which ( not surprisingly ) leaves other windows open . In fact , the context menu refers to the main Notes window as Notes : So what Apple 's description basically means : Even if you close Notes , the note stays open on your desktop . = You do n't need to use the overview window at all times . You can use similar to By the way , is still available in Mountain Lion and has been upgraded to version 9.0 .
First of all iOS 6 and Mountain Lion have the ability to combine phone number and Apple ID to use iMessage , but it seems like you have n't activated it . Have it separated comes from older versions and also gives you kind of a fallback mode when there is no internet connection available . If you send an iMessage via Apple ID and your partner " on the other side of the conversation " had no connection , the message would not be send . Using the phone number you still have/had the ability to resend it as SMS . Now , if you want to combine your Apple ID and your phone number , open the prefs on your iOS device , go to the messages section , choose " send &amp; receive " and check both your Apple ID and the phone number . Also set the application to start all conversations from your phone number . Now , do the same on your Mac . Open the prefs in iMessage on the Mac , go to accounts , choose your iMessage account and check both , your phone number and your Apple ID . Set the application to start new conversations from the phone number . Now , your streams should be combined from now on ( old conversation will stay separated ) . Of course in case of connection problems sending a SMS from the Mac is not possible within iMessages . To your question why you have different possibilities to send the message : Well , because he/she has different contacting possibilities ( and technologies - you can sent SMS to the number instead of an iMessage ) . But they also have the ability to combine their number and ID what should also give them one single stream .
Yes the installer is updated with 10.8.x releases as they come out . You will need to update the installer app through the App Store as you would for any other app . ( Source : <URL> ) . Like any other application purchased from the Mac App Store , these OS installers are updated in-place as part of the normal Mac App Store update process when new versions are released . It 's as if your Mac OS X 10.6.0 installation disc gradually morphed into a 10.6.1 installer , then a 10.6.2 installer , and so on . Example given is 10.6 , but the reviewer is talking about 10.8 .
Edit Find the line that says and uncomment it by editing out the # at the beginning of the line . ( Then save the file , obviously . ) Go to Terminal and type at the console :
end question
start question
Will restoring from Time Machine carry over hard disk error ?
The only way filesystem errors like those you describe could be copied onto a different disk ( e.g. your Time Machine volume ) is if the whole disk partition or whole drive were copied at the block level using or something like Carbon Copy Cloner . Time Machine does n't work that way , so its stored backups should be free from the filesystem errors and the files it restores should be free from them as well .
Unfortunately , Time Machine does n't support this feature and there are a couple of reasons why . Time Machine makes physical backups of all your files , not just links to them . If it backed up to iCloud Drive ( which syncs to your Mac ) , it would duplicate 150GB on to your HDD . It would then try to back all of that up too ( unless you exclude that location from the backup ) so it would try to add another 150GB to the backup , and so on . Time Machine makes incremental backups . Sure , your backup is just 150GB now . But you change a few files and it backs up an additional 25MB . You install a new app and it adds another 2GB . While you may keep your actual drive below 320GB , your Time Machine backup could end up over 1TB in size ! In my case , I use about 400GB of storage on my Mac , but my Time Machine backup is over 1.3 TB due to deleted files . Having said all that , sure , theoretically it is possible . If you created a link to a folder on your iCloud Drive in it should show up as a disk to back up to , and if you excluded backing up iCloud Drive through Time Machine it would n't double in size every backup . Your hard drive would fill up very very quickly though , and your performance would suffer . To me , at least , this seems a lot more effort than it is worth .
I had this a long time ago , so I am not 100 % sure that I remember the solution correctly , but I think it was rather simple : Rename the existing backup image or tuck it away in a folder .
I have had a MacBook Pro since early 2007 , and the display is as bright and crisp as the day I bought it . I 've also had an iBook G4 since early 2005 and there 's no problem with its display , either . I doubt you 'll have any problems for quite awhile if at all , as newer models tend to have better displays then older models .
It 's not been shown ( yet ) how to hack apart the Time Machine process on Lion sufficient to do what you ask ( skip the sparse storage format ) . I too was bitten by early network based sparse bundles . Since mid 10.6 ( maybe 10.6.5 ) - I 've been unable to break Time Capsule based despite repeated tests to be really mean . This includes pulling the power of the capsule in the middle of backups repeatedly to regain confidence . This is n't something I 'd do on my main backup , but the Snow Leopard implementation is now rock solid in my eyes . Realize that by having a less reliable network , this sparse format is actually more reliable overall and has checks and balances to make sure you get a good backup even when bad things happen .
The basic TimeMachine recovery procedure boils down to : 1 ) boot from Recovery/Installation media 2 ) make use of the Disk Utility ( I recall under the tools menu option of the installation USB/DVDs ) to format/partition the new disk 3 ) Then select/choose the Restore/transfer option where you can then select the TimeMachine ( Or Migration Assistant ) to restore from . The problems I do n't have an answer to as I 've never done that in my setups : a ) recovery of the Recovery partition ... I usually were doing " upgrades " , thus I did fresh installs , and then I restored the TimeMachine specific files , or I used the " Migration Assistant " to restore the applications/users as need be b ) You did n't specify the version , which might mean different issues w.r.t. the medium , ie . USB/DVD/etc . Creating a USB boot image is outside the scope of this question and answer ;)
Apple tried encrypting each user 's files in FileVault ( 1 ) and did away with that when FileVault 2 arrived . The easy / recommended way to do this is make no user an admin so that they can not get around the prohibition to look at other user files . Also , you will have to physically secure the backup drive or trust that no one breaks the policy to not access that drive . One easy thing you could do is have each Mac encrypt the backups by ticking that switch to prevent some users from seeing files from another computer but hat wo n't prevent same computer users that are admin and know what to type . The downside there is for several computers managing the passwords becomes onerous to a less than ideal step up in privacy . I would recommend you set up storage on a Mac mini server and have it serve up time machine to each Mac so that you can control access better than using TimeCapsule . The performance will go up substantially along with the cost . The setup is fairly easy and there are inexpensive books to guide you if needed . AppleCare also supports server so hat is extremely inexpensive for three years of phone support for enterprise caliber support .
The short answer is Yes . If the Time Machine drive is accessible to Windows ( via MacDrive or anything else ) , then it can be corrupted and directly destroyed . For this reason , I recommend turning off your Time Machine drive while in Windows . Another possibility is that modifications to your primary drive could cause its ID to change , which would break its association with its existing Time Machine backups . The old Time Machine backups would still be there on the backup drive , but they would be treated as being backups of a different system . It sounds like this is probably what happened . It could be because you ( or something ) renamed the primary drive or otherwise tried to change it at the root level . But since you saw a MacDrive error , its more likely a glitch in MacDrive . There 's not much you can do to prevent that except not use it . Try running a Disk Utility check on all drives , preferably while booted from a DVD or an external drive . That will at least make sure nothing worse happened .
The sparsebundle is how Time Machine backs up using the network method . The Backups.backupdb method is how it backs up when the drive is hooked up locally therefore you ca n't make it create a sparse bundle if its connected locally because that 's the way time machine works . If you want it to make a sparse bundle you have to backup through a network . It should not make a difference to you since you 'll be accessing it through time machine without having to worry about files etc. .
I found a github project a short time ago , which handles the " read the backed-up files " part of this question : <URL> That is good enough for my purposes .
You can use the tool to delete backups one by one . If you are sure you have selected the correct name , you can delete all backups from that one Mac by not passing in the time and letting it delete the entire folder : The sudo command needs your password ( and it wo n't echo to the screen , so just type it and pause to be sure you 're dating the correct files before pressing enter ) .
I have n't tested this on 10.8.4 , but here 's how I used to work around this . Make a second account that exists only for you to be able to log out completely of your main account . Log into the second account only . Start a backup so that the legacy file vault files can be backed up . Basically , Time Machine does n't run unless someone is logged in .
Apple 's warranty ( AppleCare ) is specific about what components are user replaceable/serviceable . The hard drive on an older MacBook for instance is user replaceable , AppleCare used to have the option to send you a replacement hard drive along with a disposable ESD wriststrap for you to install it yourself . The difference though is the hard drive in the MacBook was almost as easy to access as the RAM in the Mac mini . The Mac mini 's hard drive is a different story . In order to access it you have to expose the logic board which increases the chance of damage from ESD if proper precautions are n't taken . Because of this the only user replaceable part in the new minis is the RAM , since the logic board is still pretty well protected when only removing the RAM . The Magnusson Moss act essentially says they ca n't deny warranty unless they can prove damage . It would n't be hard for Apple to say " The upgrade situation you described to us implies that there was a high risk for ESD damage , which has likely caused such and such issue " . The flip side though is that if an Apple Authorized Service Provider ( AASP ) installs a third party hard drive your AppleCare will remain intact because the AASP has proved to Apple that its technicians follow all safety rules and procedures when working on Macs , essentially the same reason Apple allows them to perform warranty work . Apple would then not be involved in the hard drive 's warranty ( though most HDDs have 3-5 year warranties of their own ) but the remaining components would still be recognized as " in warranty " by Apple . The most you would need to do is provide a receipt for the service you had done at an AASP . source : I was " that guy " at the Genius Bar for several years who had to turn people away from warranty coverage for unauthorized upgrades &amp; repairs . As soon as your Mac goes out of warranty I definitely encourage a DIY attitude , however I would try to heed the above advice while it 's under AppleCare .
You need to extend the windows disk size from a running windows . Here is how you do it : <URL> Now that you have extended the VMware image size , you need to start at # 6 in the link . EDIT : I do n't want to write a new answer , and the comment text-box is n't large enough - so here is a more less re-write of the link : 1 ) extend the VMware image size . 2 ) attach the HD image to an existing virtual disk of the same OS as the resized image ( Virtual Machine Libary - > [ select the VM to use ] - > Settings - > Hard Disks - > [ click + ] - > [ select the new HD in left menu ] - > File name - > Choose existing disk ... - > [ navigate to the resized image , and select the . vmdk ] - > [ choose " Share this virtual disk ... " ] - > Open - > Apply ) - if you will go the safe way , you 'll choose " Make a separate copy af the virtual disk " instead of the " Share this virtual disk ... " 3 ) Start the virtual machine that you just attached the new HD to . 4 ) Now because you are using Windows 7 , you need to go to " Start - > Computer Management - > Disk Manager " and right-click on the partition you need to extend , and select " Extend Volume " . 5 ) power off ( shutdown VM ) - and remove the HD attached in # 2 - do n't delete it ... ! 6 ) if you in # 2 choose to make a copy of the . vmdk , then you need to replace it manually in the VMware image file ( package ) - right click on the VMware image ( . vmwarevm ) - > Show Package Contents . 7 ) Power on the virtual machine from # 1 , and verify the disk size change .
Yes . I swap out drives all the time ... it 's basically transparent on a Mac . I 've even booted my MacBook Pro 's drive on my wife 's MacBook Pro and vice versa . It takes a minute longer to boot as it reconfigures itself but once it starts you ca n't even tell the difference .
Spotlight does n't index Time Machine backups or the Trash . It does do external disks but certain conditions have to be met for it to do them .
As time goes by , you make various edits to a given file , and Time Machine will make progressive backups of that file . Backups continue so long as there is available storage space upon the hard drive . When hard drive space runs out , older file backups are discarded . To perform a restore , one can perform a full system restore , which returns the entirety of your Mac file system contents to the latest files and structure that had been backed up . Alternatively , you can browse through the progressive backups using a Finder-like interface , and choose specific files or folders to restore . For more in-depth descriptions , it is worthwhile to read Pondini 's <URL> .
I think what you could do is creating a encrypted disk image on the external HDD and put your time maschine files in it for the timeframe your friend has the disk . To achieve this open the disk utility tool and choose File - > New - > Blank Disc Image ( or Image From Folder ) . BUT keep in mind that as long as this disk is not ( re - ) formatted properly it will be easy to recover unencrypted data which seems to be deleted or moved ( using some fancy recovery tools ) .
I have heard good things about the <URL> . It provides a mounting bracket for whatever hard drive or SSD you want to put in there . <URL> shows how to install it in a Mid-2010 MBP , which is close in design to the Unibody MacBook you have . Instructions according to the guy in the video : Remove the bottom panel Disconnect and remove the Wi-Fi/Bluetooth antenna . Disconnect optical drive and put the connector onto the Optibay Put your hard drive into the optibay Follow the steps in reverse to reassemble your computer . The dangerous parts are when you pop up the delicate connectors with , say , an iPod opening tool . So the Wi-Fi may not work afterwards , and you would be on your own since Apple does n't support modifications . But overall , it is n't so bad . It looks like an easy fix .
I could n't find any information on this issue , so I called Apple . After some digging , they told me that this could result from corruption in the OS X install . They asked me to reinstall OS X , which made me a little nervous , but when it was finished , I did a clean Time Machine backup and all went well .
end question
start question
How to make Spotlight index PDF documents to search faster or on my command ?
Spotlight indexes are updated when a file is written , so results should be available within milliseconds of the write operation being finished . Delays in finding a search result are due to a slow or problematic index or a failure of the scanner to complete that file . You 'll need to diagnose spotlight or perhaps just rebuild your index around the folder if you have problems with the subsystem . It 's hard to know what of the three causes is happening without someone who knows how things work poking at the system .
Actually , the best way is to use this website . <URL> , it is far more easier and better than other ways .
Turned out it was n't a problem with the certificate after all , it was that the application signature used by parental controls changed when the certificate changed . This was fixed by manually editing the parental controls file to contain the new signature .
I 'm afraid not . iCloud is designed for iOS devices without a user accessible file system . iCloud files are strictly associated with apps and only allow one level of folder nesting . If you 're not happy with this , you can send feedback to Apple about it here : <URL> You could use Dropbox instead ( https://www.dropbox.com/ ) which has more flexibility around file organisation . The downside is that you only get 2GB free but you can earn more free storage in various ways . Google Drive ( https://drive.google.com/start#home ) gives you 5GB free .
From one of the <URL> , one user found a tool that could handle batch conversions of Claris Works documents : Panergy Software had just the right tool for me . It 's called Doc X Converter . I have n't used it yet , but I emailed with their tech support and I understand that it will batch convert Apple Works and Claris Works files to . rtf files , which , of course , will open fine with any version of Word . ( They no longer sell One Click Convert . ) However , it 'll only convert the word processor files . The <URL> has a link to a <URL> , which states : The cwk file extension is the extension associated with an Office program originally called ClarisWorks and later renamed AppleWorks . This Office program is composed of several modules , word processor , spreadsheet , drawing , painting , presentation and database . The cwk extension is used for all the files regardless of the module that has created them and is also used in both version 5 or version 6 of this program . docXConverter open and converts the cwk word processing files of version 5 or version 6 . So long as the ClarisWorks documents are version 5 or 6 and are word processing documents , this tool should provide the functionality that you 're looking for . Caveat : I 've never used docXConverter before , but the product description looks promising .
You can delete videos from the Videos app by tapping and holding on the thumbnail , then pressing the red X that appears in the corner ( just like deleting apps from your home screen ) . To delete audio podcasts , find them in the Music app , swipe your finger across the name of the podcast ( or episode ) and press the delete button . ( The same way you would with emails . )
Let 's differentiate a user being one individual from a user being a single UNIX user account . As for the purpose of limiting privileges to the computer account and not for the individual operating it , creating two separate user accounts in Mac OS X is overkill and if you ask me rather impractical . Even an administrator account lacks the privileges to modify anything system critical without authenticating as the root user , which requires manually re-entering your password . The only significant extra privilege an administrator account has is the ability to switch to the root ( privileged ) account . If you are familiar with the command in the shell , this is very much the same thing . You would create a regular user account as opposed to an administrator account if you want to limit privileges of the individual operating the computer , for example with kids or employees .
<URL> Notifies You When Caps Lock Is On ! The little app shows you huge icon when caps in on !
Open terminal and type : You will be asked for your password , provide it , as this command requires administrator privileges to run . After confirming your Spotlight index will be re-built and your files should appear in the search . ( Depending on the size of your HDD it can take a while ) To turn Spotlight on/off use : To fine tune your Spotlight settings open System Preferences > Spotlight Exclude certain folders from getting indexed :
For Spotlight there is n't really a difference between AquaTerm , Terminal and iTerm when searching for " term " . All three names match the search term , there is no such notion as better Spotlight " learns " your preferences over time . So if you keep searching for " term " and then always select " Terminal.app " as result it will reorder the result list over time
<URL> iOS app was updated to version 4.0 which includes a new feature that will save reading locations to multiple devices using iCloud . Here 's a quote from their notes on what 's new in 4.0 . Library Synchronization • Your entire library , including folders , reading locations , bookmarks and annotations are synchronized across all your devices using iCloud Drive . Voice Dream is meant as a text-to-speech app , but it also works well for times you want to read PDFs and other text without speech .
It is inconvenient , but if you add after your search term in the Finder , it will exclude Mail messages too .
No - You have to click on Search and a serach queery will bring up all results accross iTunes . The store page behind newsstand is just a coverpage for the iTunes store . You will find that once you have entereed the store from newsstand you are able to browse and download any iTunes content . It is easier in this case to use iTunes on the desktop of a computer . You can browse in alternate ways by tapping on release date and then sorting by name , most popular or release date . However when you use the iTunes store on an iPad , you have the additional option of filtering results by Category , you can then select Newsstand .
<URL> I use and recommend DropDMG since it has many <URL> that make it useful for sharing software such as scripting the building of a DMG file directly from my CI server when I promote a build using the included <URL> . Above : Many options for <URL> , including <URL> and showing a <URL> when opening the DMG .
iBooks for iPad currently does n't support highlighting in PDFs . However , there are many 3rd party apps like <URL> , <URL> , or <URL> that support PDF highlighting and annotating . I use GoodReader and I can personally verify that PDF highlights that were made on Mac 's Preview do show up on the GoodReader iPad app . I also tested the DropBox iPad app and PDF highlights do not show up . Hopefully , Apple will add PDF highlighting to a future version of iBooks . If enough people request this feature at the <URL> , maybe they will add it in the near future .
In the find file window , press Command-Shift-G . It 'll ask you what folder to navigate to . Enter " ~ / . ssh " and press return .
A simple solution is to use the mute switch on the side of the phone . The camera shutter sound is controlled by the ringer volume , since the mute switch mutes the ringer the shutter sound is also mute . However , you are asking an optional permanent solution . So far there is none . The application does n't have any additional options within the app or within System Preferences . Digging into the app store there is a simple camera application called Secret Camera - Taking Photo Secretly for $ 1.99 . <URL> It looks like it functions like the normal Camera application , but reading its description it does n't explicitly mention a shutter mute option . I assume this is an implied feature due to the app 's name .
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
I would n't expect it to be any faster , especially if you are comparing the performance increases of doing the same thing on an Android device . The reason is that , on an iPad , Apple goes through a great deal of trouble to ensure that applications do n't mess up your operating system ( e.g. by using up too much resources in the background ) . Compare that with a Windows or Mac system where each application you install can load up its own background processes . In an environment such as that , you would expect a reset of the entire computer to speed everything up . The only thing affecting your performance on the iPad , however , is iOS , which Apple provides . Assuming you reset to the same iOS you are currently using , you should expect the experience to be the same at the end . My guess as to why your iPad is less responsive than it used to be is that Apple is optimizing their iOS updates for the newer generation iPad models rather than worrying about how it might affect the user experience on the 1st generation iPad . Therefore , I think the only thing that could potentially increase your performance is if you downgrade the iOS on your device ( which is beyond the scope of this answer ) , or wait for Apple to release an update which fixes the issues you are experiencing ( unlikely with older generation iPads ) . A final option might be to jailbreak and see if there are any solutions available there ( I 'm not familiar with jailbreaking , so I ca n't point to specifics ) . The one caveat might be that you are <URL> ( several of which may be consuming up resources ) . However , the fix for that is to simply shut them down rather than reseting the entire iOS .
Zevlag is right . You 're not going to be able to do precisely what you were after ( true IMAP syncing of chat logs ) . But here 's a couple of things that you can : First , you could download your chat logs using this method : <URL> This will take quite a bit of time and I doubt you 'd want to do it over and over to keep your logs up-to-date . But it will allow you to have an easily searchable record of your chats on your local machine ( Spotlight ) . Second you could look into Google 's APIs for a way to get at your chats . Here 's one example of a script attempting this : <URL> This will be even more complicated and still wo n't get you what you 're after but if your a bit of a hacker you might be able to put something together with the API that would keep your local record up-to-date . Sorry there is n't a way to do just what you want . - Samuel
end question
start question
A way to use iPad as a sketching device during presentations ( without cables ) ?
I assume that you have your presentation or document you want to show on your Mac . If so , the setup I use is as follows : Install <URL> on your iPad and its client on your Mac Install <URL> on your mac . Using AirDisplay " link " your iPad to your mac and mirror the displays . Connect your projector and mirror the display Create a new document in CocoPad and in the right corner choose a " transparent " canvas . Bring the transparent canvas on top of the document you want to scribble on and then scribble with your finger ( or a stylus ) on the iPad Since AirDisplay relies on a wireless network to become an external display , you may want to make your setup more reliable by creating your own wireless network . To do so go to System Preferences - > Sharing - > Internet Sharing and enable it . Connect your iPad to the " created " wireless network and the connection will now be rock solid . Another option that you could try out is <URL> with cocoPad but it is a bit more expensive but with that option you would not need an iPad . Hope this helps
Insert a comment ⌘ + OPTION+A Turn track changes on or off ⌘ + SHIFT+E From <URL>
I believe white one is more succeptible than black one . As far as the case , I picked up a clear case on ebay ( shipped from Jersey ) to go with my smart cover for $ 3.98 and it is pretty thin , maybe adds 2mm to the overall thickness . Just something to look at .
As @Timothy pointed out in the comments , the App Store will work normally on a jailbroken device . As for your own apps , you can run them , but if you do n't have a paid developer account it is harder to get them on the device . If you have a paid account , you can use the normal methods to install and run them . A device which is not jailbroken will refuse to run any app which is not signed with an Apple-approved certificate . When you jailbreak , the code which performs the checks is modified . It will still only run signed apps , but those apps can be signed by any certificate . Therefore , you can create your own certificate to sign your apps with . However , the normal methods of installing an app will perform the check and refuse to install it . This means you need to find an alternate method of installation , most likely using SSH or USB to copy a package over and modifying permissions .
a ) figure out how much space Photostream is occupying on the device Go to settings General - > Usage wait until the top is done and then click on Photos and Camera The next page under Photo and Camera has the space used for Camera Roll , Photo Library , and the Photo Stream . b ) reduce space . After taking photos you can edit and crop , delete the ones that you do not want . It saves the last 1000 photos for 30 days so if you take a lot of photos , copy them when you can . Photo stream is there for you to easily sync your photos from one device to all . After you have the photo , copy it to your mac and remove them from your photo stream . After 30 days or over 1000 photos you might start to lose photos .
Painful to the touch - especially when the device has n't been that hot since day one - is a great time to unplug and take your rig ( computer and power adapter ) in to have things checked out . You might power off everything and try hooking just the shut down mac and see if drawing less current helps , but keep a very close eye on things and do n't leave it plugged in just in case if you have any concerns . I 've got an 85W adapter that started buzzing faintly and now it 's getting hot as well so I 've stopped using it until I can have things checked out . Also , ambient temperature is a big factor . Since things are air cooled , if you are 85 degrees F then the charger ca n't dissipate heat as well as if you were in a server room cooled to 62 degrees or so .
This answer <URL> discusses a GitHub page <URL> which has assembled various versions of the AppleHardwareTest which you can download and install in a specific place on your harddisk . This allows you to run the test without a working CRROM . It worked for me on a Mid 2009 Macpook Pro .
iOS does not have an option for this , nor does apple approve apps which alter the status bar . If you want this function you will have to jailbreak your iOS device and install a third party status monitor . As pointed out in another answer , LockInfo does this . SBSettings used to , but no longer does . If you 're running an iOS 4.x device , OpenNotifier might be useful as it does this as well as give you pull-down notifications similar to android and iOS 5 . If you 're developing for this device , however , you can add this function yourself . As a developer you can run custom code without jailbreaking the device - you just ca n't submit that code to the app store . The trick , then , is going to be finding example code for this feature . I expect someone in the jailbreaking community will have some info on what the code needs to do , and if you 're lucky you 'll find an open source project for it . Then you can compile and sign it yourself , and as long as you keep your ad-hoc license current and recompile/re-sign it yearly , you can use it on your personal devices . I think a lot of developers overlook the fact that they can run any code they want on their own devices without jailbreaking . They can also distribute such apps in a limited manner to their friends using adhoc distribution as well . It looks like OpenNotifier is open source , and has the functionality you need : <URL> I do n't know much about the status of the project , but it might be usable for you as a developer to bring this functionality to your devices .
In short , the microphone wo n't work as a microphone the way you 're trying it , but the earbuds will . Longer answer ... In order to use the microphone from your iPhone headphones , they must be plugged into the headphones socket . You can see in the images below that the MacBook Pro " Sound " preference pane recognises that they have a microphone and switches the " Built-in Microphone " to the headphones one when they 're in the headphones socket . If you plug the iPhone headphones into the Mic/Line-in socket , it seems to be only set up for a standard stereo 3.5 mm jack , and so will use the earbuds ( both of them ) as microphones -- a stereo microphone effectively ( though they 're not great at picking up sound or well matched to the hardware as microphones , so will require lots of amplification ) . Sound preference pane without the headphones plugged in the headphones socket : Sound preference pane with the headphones plugged in the headphones socket : Plugging the iPhone headphones into the Mic/Line-in socket shows no change ( i.e. looks like the top image ) and having tested it , only the earbuds seem to produce any response in the computer ( i.e. they 're connected but the microphone is n't ) .
You could get something like <URL> , which has passthrough for any standard 3.5 mm audio , and provides volume controls and a clicker remote ( just like on Apple 's headphones ) . The clicker can to play , pause , and skip ( double click for forward , triple click for backward ) . There are other similar products out there , I found a few by searching for " iPhone inline remote " .
Although Nathan has a valid point for wall charging , from personal experience it is possible to discharge the battery while it is plugged into a powered USB port . Even though my iPod Touch 2nd Gen was plugged into my MacBook , playing Need for Speed Undercover was sufficient to cause the device to power down due to low battery . It seems that a powered USB does n't provide sufficient charge to offset the drain caused by a graphically intensive game . To sum up : if you are worried about exhausting the battery while charging , use a wall charger .
Try to rearrange the apps the way you want them directly on iTunes before you sync , and then click Apply instead of Sync ... Plus ... is your iPhone jailbroken ? In this case , if you hid some apps on the iPhone , when you sync with iTunes it could rearrange them oddly ...
One solution I 've come up with may be to convert the PDF document to individual JPG images , then sync those ' photos ' via iTunes . They can then be viewed individually or as a slide show . Caveats are : limited resolution once iTunes downsamples the photos for syncing slideshow stops once you zoom in or manually disrupt it : ideally would like it to automatically continue ( hoping there is a better slide show app to do this ... )
Whilst I have no experience with Picasa , I have symlinked many other apps ' Application Support folders to other destinations including network drives too without any problems . I ensure the drive is connected with a script before allowing the app to open , but I 'm not sure if that 's necessary . Generally speaking , it 'll work fine . Edited from my canonical linking answer at <URL>
Can you use VNC ( or ARD or some other remote desktop software ) to remote into a server to do development work ? Short answer is " yes . " However , it is a royal PITA . I use VNC to administer my OS X machines on my gigabit LAN and I can tell you that the lag is infuriating . Trying to do development work , I can only imagine it being a nightmare . What worked for my developers was that we had several MBPs that would float around the department depending on the project . For " quick " tasks VNC worked , but when they needed to be heads down on a project , they would check out a MBP and use it for the duration of their task . The main thing to keep in mind is that people like what they like - Mac/Linux/Win . The " hotelling " concept is a nice goal , but not feasible for devs who spend their lives in front of a monitor . Ensuring work is accessible anywhere is the reason we have a cloud and GitHub . These are areas you should investigate thoroughly before you spend time trying to re-architect your infrastructure .
There is an <URL> . You do n't need to keep a sim in the phone but you need to put one into it to activate it before taking it back out . Here 's the procedure for 3G and 3GS : You can use any SIM card associated with the carrier that your device supports to activate the phone . Simply place a SIM card from the last carrier with which you used your iPhone into the device , and activate it . Then remove the SIM card . You can now use the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS as you would an iPod touch ( Wi-Fi only , no cellular service ) . Note : You can use the activated SIM card from your new iPhone to do this . To re-activate an iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS that displays the " Connect to iTunes " screen : Insert a SIM card from the carrier with which you used your phone . Note : If you are using the same carrier , you can use the activated SIM card from your new device to do this . If your device is unlocked by your carrier , you can use any SIM card . Connect the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS to iTunes on a computer connected to the Internet . iTunes will then activate the device . You can remove the SIM card at this point and use the iPhone as if it were an iPod touch .
Both <URL> and <URL> allow your Mac to act as an Airplay receiver for audio or video . I 'm not aware of an app that specializes in audio only Airplay , but either of those should do what you need .
I 've found a method that works . I noticed that double-clicking on a dock icon will switch to a full screen application 's space , even if " When switching to an application , switch to a Space with open windows for the application " is turned off in Mission Control 's system preferences . It 's possible to make an AppleScript that utilizes this , even if the dock is hidden : Save this to an scpt file , and then bind it to a keystroke using an application like BetterTouchTool . Since it uses OS X 's accessibility API it will require whichever application is invoking it to have permission to remote control the computer ( in System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy > " Privacy " tab > Accessibility ) . This does have one limitation that I 'm aware of , which is that it only consistently works if the application has no other open windows on other spaces . Otherwise this will toggle between the various spaces that the application 's windows are occupying . Fortunately my use case involves an application that does n't have any other open windows so it satisfies my requirements .
After seeing @Lri 's answer I discovered that my original service would work in the Finder as long as I was n't in column view . Since that 's the view that I use most of the time , I decided to see if I could get @Lir 's basic solution working without the need for an external application . Here 's what I did : Open Automator and choose " Service " from the options of what to make . Set " Service receives " to " no input " and " in " to " Finder.app " . Drop a " Run AppleScript " action onto the main window . Drop the code @Lri provided into place so you end up with : Save the action as " Open via TextMate " . Under " System Preferences " - > " Keyboard " - > " Keyboard Shortcuts " - > " Services " - > " General " add my preferred shortcut to the " Open vie TextMate " item . This works in all my Finder views ( including column view ) for Mac OS X 10.7.3 and TextMate 1.5.10 .
No ; iOS does not provide any options or control for wallpaper positioning - you set the file and it does what it does .
end question
start question
How to type keyboard shortcuts like ⌘ Ä , ⌘ Ö , ⌘ Ü , etc. on a US keyboard ?
You can change the shortcuts from System Preferences : They can also be changed with defaults . The shortcut format is described in the <URL> article .
It 's not possible to connect it to a Mac . The <URL> says that it 's only compatible with the iPad . Note that the full product name is " iPad Keyboard Dock " . Here are some ways you can use the iPad Keyboard Dock , though : Connect the dock to your computer with the USB cable included with your iPad to sync iPad and charge its battery . Connect the dock to an electrical outlet using the iPad 10W USB Power Adapter ( included with your iPad ) to charge the iPad battery . Use the dock to hold your iPad at the perfect angle to compose email and notes using the keyboard or to watch your favorite videos or photo slideshows . Connect the dock to a TV or video projector using a compatible cable such as the iPad Dock Connector to VGA Adapter or the Apple Component or Composite AV Cable . Connect the dock to a stereo or speakers using an AV cable or a stereo audio cable to play music from iPad .
In current version ( 5.2 ) of Pages the feature has been re-introduced . I guess this closes the question .
There are not specific keyboard shortcuts for those two individual items in <URL> but you can navigate to them with the keyboard . Here 's how you could get a login or password into your clipboard without pushing a mouse ( or fondling a trackpad ) . Command-F to search for the account you want to access & uarr ; / & darr ; to move up or down through the search results Command-E to switch to edit mode for the selected record Tab until you get to the field you want to copy Command-C to copy the value from the field Command-E again to exit edit mode You now have the value you want on your clipboard . I know it 's not the single shortcut you were looking for but I think it 's as close as you 're going to get with 1Password .
I ended up using <URL> to do this . Overall I found it to be the most configurable . Here is a screenshot of my configuration , whereas Cmd + Ctrl + W moves a window to the next monitor . If you have a 3 monitor setup ( 2 external monitors and the Mac monitor ) , you can set up the " Move Window to Next Monitor " to the right by doing the following : set up a new shortcut , specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the Predefined Action click Attach Additional Action and again specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the action Voila , you can now move a window to the monitor on the right ( a little hacky I know , but it works until the developer of BTT updates the app ) The only shortcoming of BetterTouchTool is poor Lion support ( not all features are available ) but it is available as an alpha release . This specific keyboard shortcut should work fine in Lion with the stable version , I reckon .
I once was in a similar situation to what you described -- I 'm an American and brought my U.S. MacBook to the UK . A couple observations : U.S. keyboard layouts are substantially different from the UK ones . Many common punctuation characters , including quote marks , are mapped very differently . I found UK keyboards too awkward to use and did virtually all of my work on my own U.S. keyboards . U.S. keyboards do not include the pound sterling symbol or the negation symbol used in the UK . You can get them by using Option key combinations , but that can be a bit of a pain . As bmike mentioned , if you need a keyboard repair you 'll face a substantial delay . Someone spilled a drink on my MacBook in a pub towards the end of my stay , and about a third of the keyboard was shorted out ; when I took it in to an Apple Store , they warned me they would need to hold the computer for several days while replacement parts arrived . I could n't spare the laptop for that length of time , so I spent the last couple weeks of that trip using an external keyboard with my MacBook , and repaired it when I got home . ( That option , of course , wo n't be available to you . ) All in all , I do n't think I would recommend it for you . That # 150 is buying you freedom from a lot of hassles .
Double-hitting the key ( at the key place ) will bring the multitasking bar much like the button on your iPad . Confirmed on my iPad Apple keyboard dock .
The " ~ " key is located between the " left shift " and " Z " keys on the international english keyboard . Many users are used to have this key under the escape key ( the US layout ) , and they ( including me ) use the <URL> software to swap those keys . Edit : KeyRemap4MacBook is now called <URL> . Here is a screenshot of the configuration I 'm using to remap Section to Backquote key . <URL> Edit : <URL> does not work on macOS Sierra , however a new project is in development : <URL> . As of now , it can do the replacement in question : <URL>
You can set up a custom shortcut , for example a key , for that purpose . Open System Prefrences , go to Keyboard - > Screen Shots ( or navigate to the Screen Shot-options ) , and double click on the shortcuts you want to change to change them to the keys you use less frequently . If you have a huge keyboard like me , you can for example set the F5 and F6 to be the shortcuts . Here is a screen shot of the settings window where you set the shortcut ( captured with those as well ! ) The " Copy " - screenshots are the ones with Control + Shift .
I could n't find a way to disable it either , but if you click on the shortcut key combination , you can change it to something you 'll never press . ( I used shift-control-option-command-space )
According to this images from <URL> , it appears to be between the Z and shift .
System Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard > Show Keyboard , Emoji &amp; Symbol viewers in menu bar . <URL>
Ok , what you want to do is remap your modifiers : Go to System Preferences and select Modifier Keys : Then swap Cmd and Control . note : in the shot they are not swapped For reference , I do this with an external Razer Blackwidow for Windows ( I want it to be like my Mac keyboard because I 've been using Mac keyboards for 10 years ) .
I <URL> that lead me to a solution to this problem . You can use AppleScript like this to tell Safari to change to a specific tab : So if you create nine of these scripts , one for each h ⌘ + # key combination from 1 to 9 , you have the beginnings of a solution . All you need is a way to bind these scripts to shortcut keys . The blog posts suggests saving each of these scripts in and then using a Safari plugin called <URL> ( the " Lite " version is free but limits you to ten script < - > shortcut pairings ) to bind the key combinations ⌘ +1 through 9 to each of the nine AppleScripts we created . The combinations should be set to only work when Safari is the active application . Now you 've got sane , Chrome-like keyboard shortcuts for fast tab access in Safari .
Turns out I had an old version . The new , officially Lion compatible version from the <URL> works fine .
Go to Setttings > General > Keyboard . Tap Edit in the top right corner . Tap Add New Shortcut . Type the word you wanted to add to the dictionary in the Phrase field . You can also optionally add a shortcut . Add a shortcut with the Phrase TE and the shortcut te . This will auto-capitalise te to TE . It will also prevent it from auto-correcting to the .
⌘ R or ⌘ ↩ reveals an item in Finder ⌘ I shows an information window ⌘ Y shows a Quick Look window ⌘ D selects a dictionary result ⌘ B selects a web search result ⌘ K selects a Wikipedia result ⌘ T selects the top result ⌘ , opens Spotlight preferences Holding command shows a preview popover Holding option and command shows the full path of a file in a preview popover ⌘ ↓ moves to the next section and ⌘ ↑ moves to the previous section ⌃ ↓ , end , or page down selects the last item
Most people use QWERTY , just because it is the most popular , but if you 're learning a new layout anyway you might want to try Dvorak . If you do n't want to learn another alphabetic layout , you can use a tool like <URL> to make a better programming layout for the special characters while still keeping AZERTY for the rest of the keys .
\ = Option ⌥ + Shift ⇧ + : { = Option ⌥ + ( } = Option ⌥ + ) You can display the layout in the Preferences ( Language &amp; Text - Input Sources - Show Input Sources in Menu bar ) .
To select a continuous grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Shift key , then click the last one in the group . To select a random grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Command ⌘ key ( on a Mac keyboard ) or Windows key ( on a Windows keyboard on a Mac ) , then click the next one and so on until all are selected . You can let up on the Command ⌘ key or Windows key in-between selecting however make sure you press it before selecting the next one or it will break the grouping and you 'd have to start over . You can deselect by pressing the Command ⌘ key or Windows key , then click the one ( s ) to be removed .
end question
start question
Can one access the iTunes Store Wish List via either of the two iOS app stores ?
Not at the moment , but when iOS 7 is released later , the wishlist feature will be available using a button in the corner of the app ( <URL> )
Yes , however you will need to set up a provisioning profile and add each device you are installing you app on ( you are allowed to provision 100 devices ) . You do need to join the iOS Developers program for this to work ( $ 99 per year ) . Once you join the developer program you can set up your provisioning profile from the provisioning portal ( <URL> ) there is an Assistant to walk you through the process ( which IMO is a PITA ) .
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
This is actually insanely simple : Open iTunes and go into your music library . Click on a song to ensure focus is inside the song list , press ⌘ a to select all your songs , then press ⌘ c to copy them . Open the text editor of your choice , anything should do , then ⌘ v paste your songs ! Ét Voíla , all your songs listed in plain text .
Yes , although there are <URL> that cover the same ground already on SE . You can DL app store apps ( including Lion ) on your girlfriend 's computer . Then she can log into her own apple account and buy other apps . The only thing you need to be aware of is that for updates , you can only update the apps you bought with that particular account . So if you want to update Lion ( not likely as it will come through software update ) or other apps , you will have to re-log into your account . I believe most apps have a 5 computer limit .
There is no default mac app store wish list , all though , there are some 3 party applications and websites that allow you do track apps prices and add them to a wishlist . One of them is : <URL> .
Quit app . Delete folder . To avoid still display you have downloaded x bytes of y bytes , four solutions : Disregards . Kill process ( type into ) . Logout / login . Reboot . With Lion it 's shadowed under random folder . Well ... Open Launchpad . Find your app . Keep alt key down . Click on cross to delete it .
Well , I do n't think there is official support for third-party access to the reading list from Apple , but I know they are stored in this file on the Mac , and I would assume it is the same on iOS , or close to : ~ / Library/Safari/Bookmarks . plist Just look for a key that has an entry named " Title " and a key value of " com.apple.ReadingList " . It 's the last one in my own file , but I do n't expect it to be like this all the way . And I suggest looking at it with a property list editor , like Xcode 4 , it 's a binary property list , does n't look right when opened in TextEdit or other similar app .
With the latest update to Mountain Lion I am now able to fix the issue with ease . Now you can double-click a partially downloaded program to throw away all the currently downloaded parts and start over . This only starts working once the computer thinks it has stopped . I 'm guessing there is some hidden timeout value that needs to be exceeded to enable this feature . In one case ( ClamXav ) I had to reboot to get Mountain Lion to recognize that it was n't downloading any longer . Double-click still worked to restart the download .
If you want to measure the speed ( bandwidth ) between your iPad and your PC , take a look at . It is available for computers and there are versions on the App Store for iOS too ( the one I use seems to have gone away , but searching the App Store for " iperf " reveals several possible options ) . You run an iperf server at one end ( eg the PC ) , and a client at the other ( eg the iPad ) . It runs for a configurable amount of time ( I think the default is 1 minute ) , and then tells you how much data it managed to transfer . Compared to eg copying a file , the figures you get this way are a more accurate reflection of the available network speed , because copying a file requires retrieving the data from a hard drive , writing it at the other end , sending acknowledgements , the overhead of the file transfer protocol etc. . . iPerf is simpler than that : it just transfers data as fast as it can .
In iTunes , go to the iTunes Store tab , and click on your account in the top right corner , as shown . After typing your password , you will see this page . Click ' Change Country or Region ' , and change it . All done ! Note : if you have any iTunes Store credit , you will have to spend all of it before it lets you switch countries .
To get an app for free ( if you did n't get the choice to pick None as payment option ) you should open your installed ITunes program . Then from within the program go to ITunes Store and pick any free app and try to buy it ( Google Translate or some other one ) . It will tell you to login/register into ITunes . If you create account from there you will have a choice to pick None as payment option . This worked for me several times for my customers .
Gifting only works from iTunes on a computer . Perhaps it could be added if enough people ask to spend money that way . <URL> You can also gift from store apps with iOS 6 .
Here 's my copy , hope it helps . <URL> PS : I 'm going to remove it next week , so be quick !
The historical data ( other than the last summary data for each activity ) is available in two places by default : On the paired iPhone - you can use the activity app to review your workouts as well as going into health app to review data . On the watch itself - you can look at today 's workout ( s ) in the Activity app , but not go back in time as of Watch OS 2.0
Sadly , it seems there is no way to do that . I checked the AppStore panel in the preference app , and the notification panel . No trace of an option to do that . Sorry !
You can navigate your backup drive in the Finder . Mount it , go to the Backup folder > [ name of machine ] > [ name of volume ] > latest > Users > [ user name ] and restore the files you want . ( You can also choose a date instead of latest to restore earlier versions of the files/files that have been deleted . )
If explicit you should have a little E next to the title
This works for both iTunes Apps and the App Store on the Mac . Log into your account via the App Store account link . Look for iTunes in the Cloud Click the View Hidden Purchases link . Select Unhide next to the App you want back in the list . Items are n't deleted from the list , just merely hidden .
When new updates are available on the Mac App Store , it does n't notify you at first . It waits " for a while " and then downloads them in the background . This includes ALL updates . System updates , app updates , all of them . When the download is complete and ready to be installed , that 's when it notifies you .
end question
start question
Blanking plate for MacBook Pro optical bay ?
I will not recommend you do this since it will degrade your wireless performance . The WiFi and bluetooth antennas are located just off the DVD slot to allow more signal to come out . Remember the MBP is a metal cage and wireless signals need a way to come out .
If a unibody Mac is wobbly , I 'd have it serviced sooner rather than later . The tolerances inside are crazy tight in some cases , so a warp could cause subsequent damage to sensitive and costly parts . A trained technician can tell at a glance if the damage was external or due to manufacturing issues . Now , that being said , I 've seen dozens of Macs where people reported they were off and most were the table it sat upon , and not a bend in the unibody frame of the Mac . You can test by measuring how many sheets of printer paper fit under the leg ( s ) that has ( have ) a gap . Then rotate the Mac 1/3 of a turn and repeat the measurement . Then take it to a second flat surface and do the measurement one last time if you 're not convinced that it 's the frame instead of the surface that is off-level . Any wobble that 's less than three sheets of paper is probably nothing to worry about , but what if you needed a logic board repair 10 months down the road and today , your Mac is bent out of tolerance and you were denied warranty coverage since you did n't report the bend until then ? Only by getting it checked will you know if yours was out of tolerance and have a service record to point to in case of a warranty repair question later .
Unfortunately , no . Thunderbolt displays will only work with a Thunderbolt port on your machine - not with a Mini Display Port ...
Your MacBook Pro HDMI port is output only . So no , you can not use it as input for your recording . Your alternatives are USB 3 or Thunderbolt .
Apple maintains a knowledge base article listing which Mac models support either one or two external thunderbolt displays . <URL> The technology does allow for multiple monitors to be daisy chained . In fact , the devices you daisy chain does n't matter , nor does the order they are in . However , like with the Display Port and eSATA , the problem at the moment is finding actual devices that support this feature . Until Apple or another manufacturer provides monitors with the ports needed for daisy chaining , this will not be possible . The advantage here is unlike eSATA and Display Port , the bandwidth available will make this more then manageable from the port itself . The biggest obstacle will be the ability to provide enough power to run all these daisy chained devices . Therefore just getting a cable will not be sufficient . Each device will be required to have its own incoming and outgoing port . Give the technology another year or so it will be more then doable and more mainstream . Apple would most likely also add these ports to their monitors fairly soon , I suspect during the next iMac/Monitor refresh schedule .
Yes , as @Buscar 웃SD said , you can use an external Bluetooth adapter . On my Macbook Pro 13 " I had to use Apple 's Bluetooth Explorer to set my USB adapter as the active controller . <URL> describes how to download and use Bluetooth Explorer .
Sounds like you need a disk visualizer . There are several out there : <URL> ( free ) Disk Inventory X is a disk usage utility for Mac OS X 10.3 ( and later ) . It shows the sizes of files and folders in a special graphical way called " treemaps " . It is my personal favorite , as it is really simple and easy to use , as well as the great price of free ! <URL> ( $ 20 , currently on sale for $ 9.99 ) DaisyDisk scans your disks and presents their content as interactive maps where you can easily spot unusually large files and remove them to get more free space . The map gives you an overview of your data , so you always know what your hard disks are filled with . I do n't have personal experience with DaisyDisk , but it has been highly recommended by many people , including members of Ask Different . <URL> ( free ) GrandPerspective is a small utility application for Mac OS X that graphically shows the disk usage within a file system . It can help you to manage your disk , as you can easily spot which files and folders take up the most space . It uses a so called tree map for visualisation . Each file is shown as a rectangle with an area proportional to the file 's size . Files in the same folder appear together , but their placement is otherwise arbitrary . Again , no personal experience , but highly recommended by others .
It appears to be possible . According to <URL> , the A1425 SSD It 's a Samsung MZ-DPC2560 / 0A2 unit , rated at 3.3 volts and 2.39 amps . The serial number reads S0X5NYAC703706 . Which appears to have an mSATA connector . There are lots of mSATA to whatever-you-may-need adapters on the market . mSATA to micro SATA ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) <URL> I have n't tried any of this myself , just did a search for it . This question <URL> points to certain incompatibilities to be aware of before buying .
I think you are going about this the wrong way . You are looking defensively when you should be on offense . Consider getting something like a privacy shield to place around the urinator : Another alternative might be to simply bring physical pain into the mix . Wounding the urinator that sprays wildly towards you and the Macbook might make the urinator realize that control is important . Again , think offense ... not defense .
I happen to use a MBP 15 " early 2011 and it has a SATA 3 ( 6.0 Gbit/s ) interface .
I would run <URL> on it and then you 'll have some actual statistics to make comparisons with and go from there . I would guess your HDD is the problem .
I just ran into this exact issue the other day . Try <URL> : it 's a free app that captures screenshots in both 1x and 2x simultaneously ( or , alternatively , just one or the other ) . And it 's a " true " 1x capture : it redraws at 1x rather than taking the 2x version and scaling it down . It also supports the same types of captures as the built-in Grab.app -- full screen , timed screen , selection , or window -- and you can save either to the clipboard or a file .
<URL> is a free app that lives in your menu bar . When you click it , it tells you which graphics card you 're using . It also has a beta feature that lets you manually switch to one or the other . Hope it serves you well .
I would go for USB-C to DisplayPort directly . That would be one relatively inexpensive ( $ 20 to $ 40 US prices ) cable to do the job . Since your display wo n't charge the MacBook and do video over a single USB-C cable and you have several ports ( display side and Mac side ) - a dedicated cable would be my choice . I like the USB-C to HDMI adapter you mentioned for my MacBook since there is only one port and charging plus USB is needed , but on the MacBook Pro you have several ports and can use one per display without too much hassle . It will work for you , though - just not my first choice . Apple even recommends against using the adapter you mention for bridging between a Mini DisplayPort device and thunderbolt 3 . - <URL> Note that although it uses a Mini DisplayPort connector , the Thunderbolt 3 ( USB-C ) to Thunderbolt 2 Adapter does n't support connections to Mini DisplayPort displays . If you only want two external displays , both 13 inch models of MacBook Pro are suitable . You 'll need the 15 inch models to support 4 displays . That might be a non-issue if you only have one Dell display to connect .
rEFIt is the best way to allow dual-booting on a Mac . I use it to boot Ubuntu from a partition on my external drive , and it works perfectly . Be sure to back up your hard drive before proceeding . Install rEFIt and make sure it is working ( you should get a boot chooser on startup ) Use Bootcamp or Disk Utility to create a partition at the end of the disc . Do n't worry about what format , just make it the size you want for Ubuntu and your swap partition . If you you are using OS X Lion which comes with Bootcamp 4.0 you will need to use the Disk Utility . Boot Camp 4.0 will only allow you to resize if you provide a Windows 7 installation disk . Boot the Ubuntu desktop CD , and select " Try Ubuntu . Start the partition editor ( gparted ) under System - > Adminstration . Use gparted to delete the partition you just made in OS X . It should be the last partition on the disc and follows after the HFS + partition ( OS X ) . Deleting it will leave an area called unallocated . This is free space , and exactly what you want . Use gparted to manually partition the space on your drive for Ubuntu . First create a SWAP area of about 1GB . Then the rest of the unallocated area format as EXT4 . Apply changes and take note the label of the EXT4 partition such as / dev/sda3 . Start the Ubuntu Installer from the desktop icon . When prompted , choose to manually partition . Select the EXT4 partition and click change . Select to use the space as EXT4 and root ( / ) as the mount point . You will also want to check the box to format the partition . Reboot when done with the install , and in the rEFIt menu , choose the partition tool . It will attempt to sync the partition tables on your disk . Then SHUTDOWN the computer ( not reboot ) , and start it again . You should be able to boot to Ubuntu now . If it seems to freeze on the tux logo , completely shutdown again and try one more time . This is a summary of a process described by the detailed how-to process here : <URL>
In most cases you can drag a file into a terminal window to get the full path and that would be something you could paste into an iMessage window . If you want it to be a true link to the file , prepend the path with file : / / file : / / / Volumes/NAS/path / to/file
It is safe to operate the HDD this way . There are many servers that use HDDs vertically . Your main concern , while operating this way , would be the slightly worse cooling . The Twelvesouth guys are saying that they deliver better cooling , but they are comparing it to a closed and put on the table notebook . My experience shows that the best way to keep the notebook cool is to keep the lid open . If I want to use only my external monitor , I close it , wake it with the external keyboard/mouse and then reopen the lid ( only the external monitor works and the cooling is best ) . Note that if you 're not doing CPU/GPU heavy things ( gaming , transcoding movies ) , you 'll be ok .
As far as I am aware you can replace the battery and HDD/SSD on most MacBook Pro models . Have a look at the manuals on <URL> . <URL> : You can replace the battery like <URL> And the SSD like <URL> . <URL> : I think the last HDD MacBook Pro . No retina display , but you can replace the optical drive and use a 2nd HDD/SSD instead .
The Mid 2012 MacBook Pro can support up to 16GB of RAM by using 2 8GB kits . Both the Retina and non-Retina models ( mid 2012 ) support 16GB of RAM . Per <URL> , you can have <URL> I have personally used the <URL> modules many times with great results . <URL> Since , you said that you already upgraded your drive to an SSD , I assume you know how to remove the bottom cover to access the memory .
Lifehacker 's <URL> to triple booting has worked well for me in the past . You will also definitely need <URL> . I 've seen varying reports of how well refit works on Lion - it seems to be that if you do n't have FileVault enabled , you should be fine . Obviously make sure to back everything up before starting - any sort of partitioning/boot loader editing/etc is always slightly risky . The basic steps are : Install refit Partition all the necessary partitions ( OS X , Windows , Linux ) . Be careful at this step , it can be very difficult to resize partitions that are n't HFS + . You 'll need three additional partions : Windows , Linux , and Linux swap . Install Windows , then install uBuntu . ( Lastly , this does not invalidate the MBP 's warrantee . )
end question
start question
Will Mac OSX 10.5.4 or 10.5.8 run on a PowerMac g5 quad ?
According to <URL> , the latest version of Mac OS X any version of an Apple Power Mac G5 Desktop can take is Mac OS X 10.5.8 although Mac OS X 10.5.4 will also run on them . The information I presented was what is reported by <URL> and they usually are correct with the information they provide . In any case all sources I 've looked at for the Power Mac G5 Quad 2.5 GHz M9592LL/A PowerMac11 ,2 the only quad core Power Mac G5 produced all say the same thing , latest or maximum OS is " Mac OS X 10.5.8 " . Unfourtunatly Apple 's own page <URL> does not say . So I guess the answer should be contact Apple via phone or stop by an Apple store for what would be considered an authoritative source .
I have now gone ahead and clicked " Update All Contacts " for Facebook . Here are my empirical findings : After about 30s it said 405 contacts updated I examined my contacts and could see Some contacts on that iPad got photos from Facebook No existing photos were overridden . On lots of contacts a " Facebook " entry was created . I guess this indicates that they are my friends on facebook . When I click such an entry , the Facebook app opens . However , it opens on the standard newsfeed . It does not open anything connected to that particular person . Is this a bug ? No photos were synced to Google or other iDevices . The photos did not appear in Google Contacts . They did not even appear on other iDevices set up syncing with Google Contacts . ( I did the update on an iPad and my iPhone was not updated ) . The " Facebook " entry was updated on other iDevices . I could not find any evidence that any new contact cards were created . No new Google Contacts were created . I do have some Facebook friends that were not in contacts , and they did not show up in contacts afters " Update All Contacts " .
It should . Bootcamp functions as a normal Windows operating system , just make sure the program you use to create the bootable flash drive actually works .
That apple ID applies only to the user account that is created during the setup process . If you look in System Preferences , you 'll notice the following option called " Apple ID " , under a test account I created : Additionally , when logging into the new test account , I was presented with the iCloud login screen which you saw during initial setup of the OS install on your Mac . If you restored your iMac from a backup , or installed Mountain Lion over Lion , you will already have access to those accounts without seeing the iCloud setup screen . In that case , open System Preferences , click on Users &amp; Groups , and set up your iCloud account as you wish . So , one iCloud account per local account . This would appear to be the case on Lion as well .
Here is a quick summary of running OS X on non apple hardware with ( and also without ) support from virtualization such as VMware . Possible - yes Supported , licensed , intended - no Legal - you 'll need a lawyer to help with that in your specific location . So , as long as the hardware was Mac you would be probably licensed for Lion and later OS X to run visually no matter what intermediary OS you used as part of the virtualization chain . The how is n't going to be easy since you 'll have to defeat either VMWare 's checks to prevent any Windows person from running OS X or OS X 's checks to ensure it 's running on Mac hardware .
In terms of hardware , according to <URL> , Mac Minis ( and most other Macs ) since early 2006 come with a 3.5-mm analog/optical combo jack and models since mid 2010 also come with an HDMI port , both of which should support multichannel audio if your source material provides it . You can find the specs for your own Mac by clicking the " This Mac " item in the left-hand pane . Specs for the current ( Mid 2011 ) <URL> say : HDMI port supports multichannel audio output and for most of the other models , as an alternative to the 3.5-mm analog/optical combo jack , this <URL> says that you can also use a mini Display port to HDMI adapter to receive multichannel audio and video ( though I 'm not sure what software support for this would be like ) : These computers supply multichannel audio ( up to 8 channels ) and video signals over Mini DisplayPort : MacBook ( Mid 2010 ) and later MacBook Air ( Late 2010 ) and later MacBook Pro ( Mid 2010 ) and later Mac mini ( Mid 2010 ) and later iMac ( Late 2009 ) and later Mac Pro ( Mid 2010 ) To connect your television or other HDMI devices to your Mac , use select third-party Mini DisplayPort to HDMI adapters that conform to the VESA v1 .1 a DisplayPort Interoperability Guidelines Depending on the software player , it should be just a question of connecting the HDMI/optical output to your recevier and getting multichannel output . I use <URL> and get 5.1 surround sound output ( AC3 or DTS ) over HDMI , and I believe the latest " Eden " release supports 7.1 . It also does blu-ray ( rips only , I assume ) , DVD and has an excellent plug-in system which <URL> . Alternatively , <URL> is an another alternative and will do much the same thing . Once you get your media set up , both will work pretty much out-of-the-box . As for a TV tuner , <URL> looks very good .
Apple provide a support article to help improve Activity 's accuracy , <URL> : Bring your iPhone and your Apple Watch . Find an open , flat area outside that offers good GPS reception and clear skies . Make sure that Location Services is on . To check the setting on your iPhone , tap Settings > Privacy > Location Services . Make sure that Motion Calibration &amp; Distance is on . To check the setting on your iPhone , tap Settings > Privacy > Location Services > System Services . Hold your iPhone in your hand , or attach it to your body with an armband ( preferably ) or waistband . Open the Workout app on your Apple Watch , and choose Outdoor Walk or Outdoor Run . Choose your goal , or select Open , and tap Start . Walk or run at your normal pace for about 20 minutes . You may find Adam C. Engst 's <URL> insightful . Adam is a serious runner and he too noted the difference in distances measured : Accelerometer -- Happily , the Apple Watch does have an accelerometer that enables it to detect your steps , from which it can determine both distance and pace , even if you 're not carrying your iPhone . It calibrates itself when you use it with the iPhone around , and I 'm impressed at how accurate it can be . After a few runs , its numbers match quite closely with those collected by my Garmin and with the quarter-mile markings on San Francisco 's Bay Shore Trail , where I was running recently . Unfortunately , accuracy drops significantly if you run uphill ( where your stride is shorter ) or faster than normal ( where it will be longer ) .
You must deselect the " Share Windows applications with Mac " option in the Applications pane of your VM 's configuration .
I think in OS X you should use for " cron jobs " . But otherwise your task should be easy to do with a cronjob This should run everyday at 23:55 Update You should specify the output location of WGET with
Updating from OS X to Yosemite on Macbook air seems to work OK if you have one Mac partition and one Windows/Bootcamp partition . But ... If you have two windows partitions then the update will cause problems , the new partition setup created by Yosemite update was : One very small partition ( ~ < 200MB ) , probably booting data One Mac partition One Mac recovery tools partition ( ~ 600MB ) One Bootcamp/windows partition The MBR has space for 4 partitions ( ?! ) ; so if you had two windows partitions , the second one ( Fat32 ) might not be visible . In my case Mac could still see it and browse files , but windows 7 seen it as unpartitioned space . I booted with an USB stick ( Minitool Partition wizard free ) , deleted Mac " recovery " partition ( to make room on MBR ) , created that 2nd windows partition from scratch . Did that without changing starting point of Bootcamp partition , otherwise windows might not boot . You are losing the ability to boot into Mac recovery tools . But in worst case scenario you can delete all partitions and boot from network to re-install Mac from scratch . I could n't find a better solution to have two Windows partitions , tried re-installing and re-partitioning around 6 times , windows would fail to boot whenever I touched the bootcamp partition . The tool should also work to re-size the bootcamp patition , as long as starting point remains unchanged .
According to ISO/IEC INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 10149 ( Second edition 1995-07-15 ) , which is the basis for the " 1x " speed , the linear velocity at whatever point on the disc is being read needs to be between 1.2 and 1.4 meters per second . That would translate into a different RPMs at different parts of the disc . A back of the envelope calculation suggests that the fastest a drive in a modern MacBook Pro would spin the disc would be during 24x read at the center of the disc ; that would be around 12,000 revolutions per minute . The full text of the standard is downloadable for free at <URL>
375x667pts or 4.7 " ( iPhone 6 screen ) When running and iPhone only app in the iPad Pro simulator in Xcode 7.1 ( publicly available in the App Store ) the screen point resolution is reported as 375x667 or a 4.7 " screen . This also equates to an iPhone 6 or an iPhone 6 + in display zoom mode . See PaintCode 's guide for more details on display zoom mode . <URL>
You can use <URL> to view all the processes running on your Mac at any time . If you prefer to use the terminal , you can use <URL> .
I have an early 2011 MacBook Pro , formerly with 4GB of RAM . A few months ago , I bought an 8GB stick and made the exact setup you 're describing . With the exception of <URL> that lasted a few minutes one day ( and that I have no proof was even caused by the RAM setup ) , it 's been working perfectly ever since I did the upgrade . So yeah , you should be fine . Source : My own experience doing exactly the same thing .
Check out <URL> : cocoaDialog is an OS X application that allows the use of common GUI controls such as file selectors , text input , progress bars , yes/no confirmations and more with a command-line application . It requires no knowledge of Cocoa , and is ideal for use in shell and Perl scripts ( or Ruby , or Python , or ... etc ) . It 's a pretty simple concept -- pass arguments to the executable to create a dialog , and it returns a result string . There are some good <URL> as well as <URL> .
This will depend largely on your carrier . If they 're offering 4G/LTE service with the iPad 3 , you may need a new SIM card . If they 're not offering that service in your area , it should n't matter if you have a new SIM card or not . Your best bet is to ask your carrier .
What I was looking for turns out to be the <URL> called The <URL> that along with <URL> forms the <URL> of the OSX . <URL> seems to be the interface that routes requests from applications that use the X11 framework to the Quartz Compositor .
The easiest and most pain free way is to use homebrew <URL> Once you follow the instructions to install homebrew on this page ( which include installing Xcode ) , you can then simply type And this will download and compile wine and all its dependendencies .
Short answer : 16GB should be fine for photos . Long Answer : Your question is hard to answer with any accuracy as photos come in a variety of sizes depending on resolution , subject matter etc. . For example , a photo taken on your 3GS iphone will be smaller than one taken on your 4GS iphone , which will also be smaller than one taken on your nikon DSLR digital camera . And as you could also reduce the image size based on how you want the photos to appear on your ipad , it becomes a bit more complicated to answer . However , some math might give you a better idea at least . 1GB = 1024 MB so 16GB is 16384MB . Assuming you lose say 4GB for the in built apps and skype etc. we could say you might be left with 12GB or 12288MB . Let 's assume your mother is n't a professional photographer with a 30 megapixel dslr camera , but for the sake of being conservative we 'll say all of her photos are taken on a hi definition camera , like the iPhone 4s . Depending on a variety of factors the photo size will range from about 1.5 mb to 3mb at full size ( bearing in mind these are still HUGE photos at full res . ) If we say 2.25 is an average photo size , you 're still left with roughly 5,500 photos on your spare 12GB of space . Bearing in mind this is still pretty conservative the answer is that your mum can store literally thousands of photos in her 16GB iPad . If you were n't using a really hi def camera like the 4s iPhone , your photo sizes could be as small as 100 or 200 kb 's each and the number is more like 50,000 photos . Hope that 's helped .
If you are using something like the <URL> drive from MCE Tech , you an put either drive in the caddy . I prefer to make a single change at a time , so when I did this I put the new drive in the caddy and left the old working boot drive alone . As for installing from a USB thumb drive ( I assume this is what you meant since you were n't clear ) , you should n't have to . You can download the Mountain Lion installer and run the app . During the install process you can choose what drive to install the OS on , simple choose the newly installed and formatted SSD . Once you have both OS installed , the system will remember the last drive that was selected in the Startup Disk preferences and store that choice in NVRAM so that it will continue to start from the preferred drive . You can hold the option key at boot to prevent this choice and pick from all bootable drives when you want to switch things on a specific boot . Most people find that having two OS internally is confusing . Spotlight will try to find the correct version of Safari if you do n't keep them both updated , but sometimes you end up running the wrong version of an app . This is confusing at best , and troublesome most of the time and can cause data issues when the wrong version of an app opens data it did n't expect from a newer version of iPhoto for instance .
end question
start question
Why is an album in Apple Music marked with an " E " and grayed out ?
The E symbol means " Explicit " . You can enable or disable explicit content within Settings on your device . You 'll find the " ALLOW MUSIC &amp; PODCASTS RATED " option under General - > Restrictions - > Music &amp; Podcasts . You may need to enter a PIN code to access the Restrictions settings . You can disable the restrictions entirely by selecting the " Disable Restrictions " option at the top of the Restrictions window .
Yes , doing a restore , similar to how one does this on an iOS device , will reset it to the factory default settings and install . You do this by going to Settings - > General - > Reset , and selecting restore . If that doesnt work , you can also plug it into a computer with Micro USB , and use iTunes to restore . More information is available in this <URL> .
If you have an iPad 2 and a iOS developer 's account ( or patience until this fall ) you can try the hot new iOS 5 feature : <URL>
Apparently not much these days unless you want to play standard definition content or heavily mod the thing . See here for more info on making it into a useful device for that purpose ( Kodi can be configured to stream media from those services you mentioned ) : <URL>
Once the Mail program has launched , open the Mail application Preferences . This can be done by selecting it from the Mail menu bar option or by using the " Command - , " keyboard shortcut , which simply consists of pressing ⌘ + , at the same time . Choose the " Signatures " option of the Mail Preferences window . Add a new signature profile by clicking on the " Create a Signature " button located under the second pane within the Signatures Preferences window . This button is represented by a square containing a plus ( + ) sign . See accompanying image . In the third pane located within the Mail Signatures Preferences Window , type the text of your email signature . You can also paste your text from another application , like Microsoft Word , Apple Pages or Apple TextEdit . Pasting from another application will maintain the text 's font , size and style , if that is something you need or desire . Keep in mind that some fonts may not display properly on the email recipient 's computer , depending upon the fonts you use and the fonts they have . Assuming that you have an image that you wish to add to your new signature , just drag the image from its location on your Mac ( using the Finder ) and drop it in the same pane where you just typed or pasted your new signature text . The image should appear next to or below your text . Make sure to use only web compatible images - JPG , PNG or GIF .
Even if the AppleTV functions without the HDMI connected , you will have no way to figure out what 's going on when you have problems or when the AppleTV pops up a dialog such as the " Update available , update now or later ? " dialog . I suggest you sell the AppleTV and buy an Airport Express , which is designed to do what you 're trying to accomplish . The Airport Express can be managed by any computer on the same network . Yes , you will lose a little money this way but you may find that it 's no more than you plan to spend on the converters and cables for the AppleTV .
I do n't think there is any enforced limit for using one account on lots of devices if all you care to do is use Find My Phone . You will run into the 10 device limit if you try to install apps using this ID , but just entering it into iCloud and only turning on FMP ( FMi / FMiP ??! ) should scale past the limits people normally reach when using one ID for multiple devices . Even if you get away with this , your users might get confused or wish to use Find My ... / iCloud themselves and find you have locked their device You might want to reach out to your Apple account rep to avoid running into several anti-fraud efforts that prevent this sort of mass scale deployment if you try to use one Apple ID for say the App Store on so many devices . In addition to that specifically being against the licensing terms , you will face delays if and when this account gets locked , so plan to test things out with a small group ( say 3-8 devices sharing one ID ) as a pilot before you decide how to manage all 100 devices . There are quite a few MDM packages available , but without knowing your specific situation , it will be hard for you to determine if automating some of the management will be a good investment or if you can just use the Apple Configurator to set up your deices and depend on the end users to manage their Apple ID/iCloud accounts and not mess with your one set up to track all the devices .
An iCloud account , iTunes account and Apple ID are all the same thing . Apple just refers to them a bit inconsistently . You can ( and typically should ) have a single Apple ID for all of them , unless you specifically need to separate them out . Account " Types " iCloud Account Typically refers to the Apple ID that is used for iCloud services , such as backup and syncing documents and settings between apps . This is set in Settings → iCloud → Account . iTunes Account The Apple ID that you use to purchase downloads from the iTunes , iBooks and App Stores and what syncs your iTunes Match songs , if you use that service . It 's set in Settings → iTunes &amp; App Stores → Apple ID . It 's important to note that your purchases are linked to your Apple ID ( although music is now DRM-free ) , and are not transferrable to other Apple IDs . So you should be sure to make all your app , video and music purchases on a single Apple ID to save yourself future headaches . iMessage Your Apple ID is also used for iMessage . Set in Settings → Messages → Send &amp; Receive . Using Multiple Accounts You can be signed in to different accounts for each of these services , which can be useful if , for example , you want to have a single family account for iTunes purchases , but keep your iCloud and iMessages separate . Other Information Apple has a few support pages that are helpful for untangling all the intricacies of the Apple ID : <URL> <URL> <URL>
<URL> will let you add custom URLs ( including ShoutCast server URLs ) to your bookmarks list and stream from them . It will also keep your playlists in sync across multiple devices , record streams for , find local streams using your current location and more . You but it <URL> . And when you 're at your Mac , you can use their browser-based desktop app to keep listening and access your bookmarks . To add a ShoutCast server as a custom URL use : Where : is the IP or host name of the machine hosting the ShoutCast server is the port where ShoutCast is broadcasting on the server is the name of the stream from ShoutCast is the number of the stream Once you add the custom stream to your bookmarks it should be available from any TuneIn Radio application or their web app .
See <URL> : Cellular and wireless UMTS/HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) 802.11 b/g Wi-Fi Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR wireless technology From <URL> : In North America , GSM operates on the primary mobile communication bands 850 MHz and 1,900 MHz . In Canada , GSM-1900 is the primary band used in urban areas with 850 as a backup , and GSM-850 being the primary rural band . In the United States , regulatory requirements determine which area can use which band .
You can do this by creating a Smart Playlist : ( I 'm using a Mac , but it will be similar for you ) Set the " Album Artwork " rule to " false " : This will update automatically as you add artwork to your albums . And you can simply delete this playlist when you 're done .
The E symbol means " Explicit " . You can enable or disable explicit content within Settings on your device . You 'll find the " ALLOW MUSIC &amp; PODCASTS RATED " option under General - > Restrictions - > Music &amp; Podcasts . You may need to enter a PIN code to access the Restrictions settings . You can disable the restrictions entirely by selecting the " Disable Restrictions " option at the top of the Restrictions window .
The explanation I got from Apple is there is some maintenance being performed on an iTunes server this weekend , which is affecting AppleTV 's ability to authorize content . Even if you are streaming directly from your PC/MAC to the AppleTV , there is still some validation with the iTunes store that occurs . In the meantime , you can use Airplay to continue to stream content to your AppleTV . More info on using Airplay can be found here : <URL> .
You will need to create the album with iCloud Photo Sharing in order to do that . iCloud will not let you share a personal album that you created as they are only a means of organizing media . With iCloud Photo Sharing , you can easily accomplish your goal and share the album either with specific email addresses or you can share a link , if you make it public . I suggest selecting all of the photos in the album that you have already created and choosing to share them to the iCloud Photo Sharing album that you create in order to publish those photos .
It 's possible to have more than 1 email account associated with an Apple ID , without the 2nd address actually being one . So for example while my Apple ID is from a personal domain , say xyz@1234.com, I also have an icloud email address xyz123@me.com that is associated with my Apple ID . If your wide used a mobile me account , maybe as part of a family pack , and you migrated it to icloud , it 's possible that it has gained such a link in some way .
No - the controls are moved , though . Click the song title in the now playing screen , it will change to a set of stars where you can see and change star ratings .
There are some apps that may help you with dark night photos ( though I have no experience with these apps ) . Here you are : <URL> : This app captures 15x more light to capture the best photos in low light situations . It also provides the best tools to help take the perfect shot day or night . <URL> : A full featured camera app with digital flash , 5x digital zoom , geotagging , preview before saving , quick and burst modes , and plenty more tools for night photography . <URL> : Very suitable for night photography , you can take 30 clear photos in 2 seconds in the case of low light . The app only fires the shutter when it detects the iPhone is steady to ensure sharpness .
I just checked the font , and it 's correct , that character is not there in Gill Sans , Gill Sans Bold , Gill Sans Italic , or Gill Sans Light Italic . In fact , I 've been checking out <URL> who made the font files , and they do n't have that character in most of their versions of the typeface either . Monotype does offer a <URL> which you could license , if Gill Sans and the o with a macron are both essential to your app . From Monotype 's site , here 's a sample of Gill Sans Cyrillic Regular :
It 's in VoiceOver mode ( an accessibility feature ) . I do n't have an iPod nano , but on iOS , under General , there 's an Accessibility menu where you can turn it off .
Have a look around the web for disassembly . From a quick look , it appears there is room to drill a hole below the battery for the silver remote . The newer generation black remote is much more contained , but there is room in the bottom corners of the remote below the battery . I 'd recommend disassembling and removing adjacent parts before drilling . Update : Very late reply but for the TV2 remote it should be an all-aluminum body below the battery . I drilled a 1/8 " hole through the bottom left .
end question
start question
How much does it cost to service a MacBook Pro battery ?
See <URL> for pricing information in various countries . In your case ( Italy ) it 's 130 or 180 $ depending on screen size .
No - a simple and properly done RAM replacement does not affect warranty coverage . You can have Apple do the work , or an authorized service provider to do the work or hire someone . Just understand what is covered if something happens before you pay for service . When someone breaks a mac when it 's used in a way not intended , that can result in a denial of warranty service . Also - using aftermarket parts that then damage your mac can also land you in hot water . Luckily with RAM , as long as you do n't physically break the mounting brackets , usually the worst thing that happens is your mac is unreliable or panics until you get proper RAM . The user manual for each Apple product will clearly explain which parts are user replaceable and which are not . You can look up your manual online if you care , but no portable machine other than the MacBook Air has ram that is not user-replaceable .
The cones in almost any speaker will break down over time . Various environmental factors will determine how long a speaker lasts , but overdriving the element can definitely have an adverse effect . It 's impossible to provide any precise data but in short , you 're probably shortening the life of the speakers ( by an indeterminate amount of time ) by running them at maximum volume but , provided you 're not hearing any distortion from the speakers , you 're not damaging them by doing so .
I 've had the best results restoring from Time Machine to a freshly formatted drive . I did this for a machine with lots of system modifications , ( httpd.conf , ssh_config ) and all of these files were restored . When I did that with an OS in place these files were missed . There were no problems when I restored to a clean drive . Everything was restored properly . So , if you buy a Mac Mini , format the drive before running the Time Machine restore . I recommend sending machines to Apple as stock as possible . I 've put in known bad hard drives with the Apple Logo on them when sending a machine back to Apple . The hard drive was replaced and the primary problem was fixed . The drive swap would be fine , but unless you are in a big hurry I 'd discourage it .
The primary cons for the MacBook Pro are : heavier and more bulky compared to the Air noticeably slower HDD versus SSD at the same price point only has a 1280x800 screen resolution Note : but is <URL> than the one in the Air , with a more accurate color gamut . Things that sold me on the MacBook Pro over the 13 " MacBook Air : the MacBook Pro is more future-proof and upgradeable and offers more value for the money in my opinion . Primarily Upgradeable RAM , the Pro Comes with 4 GB and so does the MacBook Air , but the key point is that I can just order it with the 4 GB for the Pro , knowing that I will be able to upgrade to 8 GB or even 16 GB at market rate for RAM whenever I want to . I can not do that with an Air , you either order the 4 GB and shorten the usable life of your computer or pay upfront to upgrade to at most 8 GB at a premium price ( thats shoddy and I would like to avoid that ) . Secondly the MacBook Pro as of Mid-2012 version still has a standard form factor drive bay where you can purchase and install 3rd party 2.5 " SATA Laptop Drives of your choice in SSD or standard hard disk drives . And then the bonus features in order of importance to me , all of which without the need for external dongles and adapters : Gigabit Ethernet Firewire 800 port SuperDrive ( optical drive ) Standard Audio headphone jack that can do both output or input over analog or digital cables Has n't moved to the new MagSafe 2 adapter format So the flexibility and value of the MacBook Pro sold me on it , its really sad to note that all MacBooks will probably be Airs ( like the MacBook Pro Retina ) soon enough and this value option will be nothing but a thing of the past , so enjoy it while it lasts .
In general , extended warranty plans are a healthy-sized profit center for the company offering them . This implies that unless a product turns out to be less reliable than predicted , on average ( mean average ) customers will be better off paying for their own repairs without the warranty . However , if one ca n't afford to self-insure for abnormal or even normal deviations from the average , something like AppleCare will lessen the downside financial risks . Thus , I suggest ( and buy ) AppleCare only if an Apple product seems to be getting numbers of reports of below average reliability ( e.g. the Duo 2xx and PowerBook 5x00 product lines ) . For other Apple products , maybe put the money in a savings account instead , and there is a good likelyhood that you 'll end up ahead after a decade or two of Apple products .
According to <URL> , anything that works in the US should work in the Bahamas . Voltage : 110-120 Volts ( Same as U.S. / Canada , most other areas are 220-240 Volts ) Primary Socket Types : North American Non-Grounded , North American Grounded
If you go to the Utility folder on your Mac , open the Activity Moniitor . Then go to the Memory tab . There you will see who is using how much . There is also a Disk Tab , where you can also see who is using how much on active basis ( when programs are running ) . You wont see the passive usage ( how much information is stored ) in that window . In this example the application Firefox Using Memory : Using Disk space : How much space is a Application occupying on the disk , is answered by looking in your Finder - Applications then under the - Size coulomb . Again in my example , the Firefox occupies 147 MB of permanent disk space , which is not the same as the information above which was for the active situation . Back to your original problem - slow computer : In the Activity Monitor look now in the CPU tab to see who is most active there .
You can find this information along with much other battery and/or system information from the command This command , according to its man page , does : ioreg displays the I/O Kit registry . It shows the heirarchical1 registry structure as an inverted tree . 1 : heirarchical [ sic ] Using a filter by class name ( for battery ) to get only battery-related information : From . Will print something like this : The field you are looking for is . For convenience , filter it out with ( unit is milliamp-hours , or mAh ) : Your field may not display as its value . I 'm using a 13 " mid-2014 rMBP , but you may be using another system with different battery ratings . Apart from battery information , can be used to find out more about your system and other peripherals - somewhat like a command-line System Information tool . If you 're looking for a code-implementation of this command , take a look at <URL> . It 's one of the coolest Swift libraries I know of . Disclaimer : not affiliated to SystemKit or Beltex . Just a happy user of SystemKit .
I personally started typing as fast as I would on a ' normal ' keyboard after about five minutes . You 'll really get used to it in a very short time !
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
They write on the refurb store : We test and certify all Apple refurbished products and include a one-year warranty . They are even eligible to the AppleCare program if you buy it up to 1 year after your purchase . So I do n't see what problem you would face . It 's a used device but verified , repackaged and certified by Apple .
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
Leaving the LTE on will not drain your battery life . The data modem in your phone ( a Qualcomm MDM9615M ) is a chip that handles LTE and 3G signals . Therefore , your phone is not using a 3G chip and then draining your battery by having a second chip search for a LTE signal .
Nope . They 're different sizes . Compare <URL> to their <URL> : 15 " : 13 " : Both batteries are roughly proportional to their cases , and the 15 " has a substantially bigger case than the 13 " . Additionally , they 're shaped differently - see the little notch in the top left of the 15 " battery , which is n't there on the 13 " battery . It physically wo n't fit .
I 've replaced several batteries in older iPhones including the iPhone 3 . . I have not tried in the iPhone 4 models . In the original and the iPhone 3 / 3GS , it 's really quite simple . The batteries were fine ( from Amazon ) . They come with the tool to separate the back panel , look at iFixit.com for instructions , but just take your time and be patient . . HTH
After you open the Show Fonts window , you can press Ctrl + F6 to bring focus to the floating Fonts window . To return focus to the window you were in , you can press Ctrl + F4 . On a laptop , you 'll also need to hold Fn when you press the above keyboard shortcuts unless you go to System Preferences > Keyboard and check " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " . After you move focus to the Fonts window , you can press Tab and Shift + Tab to cycle focus through the different columns and the search field .
No it is not possible . The screen is what is limiting the resolution . That does mean that you can set up and use an external monitor with higher resolution as you can read on : <URL>
It 's likely that you are running something in the background ( such as Skype ) which is triggering your dedicated graphics card , despite it not actually doing anything graphically intensive . This is a known issue in Apple 's graphics card switching technology . Download and run <URL> and see if I 'm right . If so , close the problematic program or use gfxCardStatus to manually switch to the much lower-powered integrated chip . You should get longer battery life after that ; I have n't directly measured it but I know I get at least 30 minutes to an hour of extra life . And of course it also depends on what you 're doing with your computer , what background programs are running , the brightness of your screen , etc. .
See <URL> . This link suggests that you should fully discharge and recharge the battery at least once a month . I did not see this on that page , but I read somewhere that it is ok to leave a mac plugged in for an extended time , so just make sure you exercise the battery and let it completely discharge every once in a while .
end question
start question
Why ca n't I delete messages from my IMAP account on my iPhone 4 ?
Maybe the trash folder is not correctly set on your iPhone . Depending on the email-provider , you may have to choose the correct " deleted " folder in your account settings on the iPhone . ( maybe the translations are not literally , i am using a German iPhone ) : Go to " Settings " - > " Mail , contacts ... " , choose your IMAP account , choose " account info " , look at the bottom and choose " advanced " . Here you can choose which folder is your trash folder .
Get It is now exported . What format do you want the export to be ? The existing format is sqlite , so you can convert it to ASCII like so : For step one , you can jailbreak and then scp , or you can just search your backup folder for the file , no jailbreak required . If your phone is not jailbroken , look on OS X in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , although not in all cases , is named : To answer your other questions : Any OS , Free , Successful .
Maybe the trash folder is not correctly set on your iPhone . Depending on the email-provider , you may have to choose the correct " deleted " folder in your account settings on the iPhone . ( maybe the translations are not literally , i am using a German iPhone ) : Go to " Settings " - > " Mail , contacts ... " , choose your IMAP account , choose " account info " , look at the bottom and choose " advanced " . Here you can choose which folder is your trash folder .
It is almost certain that you have a hardware problem , something wrong with the actual touchscreen . Since the iPhone 4 is less than a year old it 's still under warranty , Apple will fix it for free . If you have n't done so already you can try a complete restore of your iPhone , erasing everything and returning it to it 's brand new state ( after backing it up ) . Odds are not good that this will fix it , but it 's worth a shot , especially if having Apple repair it is a hassle . Apple explains how to back it up and restore it here : <URL>
If you 're running a system prior to OS X 10.9 , you might consider updating it . Upgrading Apple 's iApps from the 2011 versions to the 2013 versions requires either Mavericks ( for version 10.0.5 ) or Yosemite ( v10 .0.6 ) . The boilerplate message from the App Store has misled a good number of people . If , on the other hand , you are using 10.9 or 10.10 , first check the " Purchases " page of the App Store ( Fourth icon across on the top of the toolbar ) to see if the iApps are available for download . These versions replace -- not upgrade -- pre-installed iApps with bundles which tie them to a combination of your Apple ID and your computer 's hardware ID . If such is n't the case , contact <URL> , and explain your situation . You are entitled to an upgrade .
iOS Notes syncing works through the IMAP protocol , which in iCloud is integrated into the email service . Although Apple could technically choose to allow for notes syncing without explicitly requiring an email address , they have chosen to make it a part of the email , almost like Notes is its own email folder . You should also be able to sync your Notes using your Gmail account since it is also based on the IMAP protocol :
The GUI for Disk Utility has always had problems with resizing volumes . You could try diskutil from the command line , if you trust your skills enough . I 'd start the Terminal and write to see all devices connected . To resize a volume from the list you 'd write something like this ( Let 's assume that disk2s2 is 100GB ) : This should create a secod partition with 50gb size , HFS + format ( mac format ) and the name Lion
I 'm afraid there is n't an easy way to do so . As far as I know , there is no app which can do what you want ... So I 've come up with two alternative solutions . The most easy one is to connect your iPhone to your Mac , launch <URL> ( which comes by default on your Mac ) , select all the photos and delete them . Here is <URL> how to do so . You can do this on your iPhone as well , without a Mac , but you 'll have to do it manually . Which is n't a grateful job if you 've got over a 1,000 photos ... Open the camera app , hit the upper-right icon ( share ) , tap all the photos you want to delete ( they are marked with a red check-icon ) and then hit delete .
The crucial issue is the speed of your router . Ideally you 'd have the Apple TV connected to a router via an Ethernet cable using Gigabit Ethernet ( 1000/baseT ) and your router would have WiFi N , not Wifi G ( which is slower by a factor of about five ) , for the iPhone connection . Then you 'd want to make sure that the WiFi N router was operating on a channel not subject to interference from other routers nearby , or from physical interference that would lead to signal attenuation . It would be a good idea to try putting your WiFi router in the same room as your Apple TV and your iPhone and to see if video image quality improves . If so , this is an indication that you were experiencing WiFi signal attenuation due to interference caused by the materials used in the walls of the building . Also , if this is the first time you 've used an AppleTV , and the first time you 've tried to watch HD video streaming over the Internet on your television , it may be that your Internet connection speed from your Internet service provider simply is n't fast enough to support HD video . If you have DSL , you may wish to consider upgrading to a cable modem or fiber-optic service with higher bandwidth . This year I found that AT&amp;T had made their Uverse fiber-optic service available in my neighborhood . I upgraded to Uverse and got Internet service at four times the speed of my old AT&amp;T DSL service for the same price I was paying for the slower DSL .
My girlfriend dropped her iPhone 4 in a glass of coke ( it submerged completely ) . Afterwards , she experienced the same symptoms as you . To fix it , she put the phone in a bowl of rice , and took a blow dryer to it once or twice a day . I believe she also got some electrical contact cleaner and cleaned the connection on the bottom that you plug the USB cable into . It took about a week , but the phone worked perfectly afterwards ( and has been working perfectly ever since ) .
It is possible you have an email account with " Notes " enabled on your iPhone , but do n't have the same account set up on your Mac . On your iPhone , in the Notes listing , tap " Accounts " in the upper left corner . Mentally review those accounts . On your Mac , click the Navigation icon that shows two lists next to a box , and makes sure the accounts are the same . If the accounts are n't the same , setup the missing accounts on your Mac in Mail Preferences . Also , if you have an Note " Account " on your iPhone that is named something like " On my iPhone " , transfer those notes to an account that syncs . You can accomplish that by , tapping the Share icon in the note , tap " Copy " , tap " Notes " to view your list of notes , tap " Accounts " , tap an account that will sync to your Mac , tap the " + " icon , tap and hold , paste the note that . ( Hopefully you do n't have too many notes that need that action ) .
No , it is flash memory soldered onto the main circuit board and can not be changed . It is not similar to devices with removable/upgradeable storage at all . In this case " no user-serviceable parts inside " would be pretty close to the truth . <URL> has a great iPhone 4S tear down if you 'd like a complete tour of the internals . They have done the same to many devices if you explore a bit , very interesting .
It appears the router does n't support Bonjour at all ( and Belkin support were totally clueless when approached about it ) , so I 've returned it for a refund and am on the hunt for one that plays nicely with Macs .
The iPhone 4 does not have a radio tuner . All it has is the appropriate cellular band , WiFi , and Bluetooth . In short , no there is no easy way to do this . Some radio stations make apps so you can stream their content via the internet , or offer live streams . I would check out the radio station 's website to see what they have available .
Yes , without a doubt . Unlike with the new ability to update only changes to the OS with iOS 5 delta updates , downgrading your OS will require you to restore the phone . Which essentially reformats the drive .
At the moment you ca n't . My guess is it will be included in the next iOS update though .
Try turning your iPhone 's brightness slider to the middle or slightly lower , but leave auto-brightness on . The phone will usually auto-adjust its brightness after it gets locked ( display turned off ) and then turned on , maybe a minute or so later , in different lighting conditions .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
For iOS 8 or later , in iMessage once you have your conversation with the contact ( s ) you wish to send your location with , tap " Details " and then tap " Send Location " .
In the Photos Settings in the Settings app on your iPhone , you can select optimize storage . Then will it only save often viewed pictures in full quality , and rarely viewed as a thumbnail , if you 're looking at a picture on your iPhone it 'll automatically start to download the picture in best quality .
end question
start question
Does the iPhone support the camera connection kit in 4.2 ?
You can use the CCK to <URL> and import them to the iPad ( which is n't new ) , but no one has yet been able to get the CCK to hook an iPhone up to anything else .
Yes . With many methods of voice dictation , what happens is that your voice is recorded and digitized , and your speech is broken up into phrases which are uploaded over the Internet to a powerful computer server which translates your speech into text and then transmits the text back to your device . However , there is a long history of programs for Mac and PC which perform voice dictation and transcription entirely on your Mac or PC without using an Internet connection . I do n't know of any apps for iOS that perform voice transcription entirely on the device without using a connection to a server on the Internet .
No - the power supply expects 100-240 VAC and lists the current draw as 1.5 A which seems quite high for the heat it puts out , but perhaps with several USB drives connected and max power it gets even half that usage in real life . You certainly can take DC power from POE <URL> , but those all seem to provide 1A at 12 VDC which is a far cry short of the wattage listed for the Airport Extreme . I doubt you 'd find a DC to AC inverter that would generate enough AC to run the Airport though ...
Apple has a nice iOS page up at <URL> In case it changes at a later date , here is the relevant text from the end of that page . This text above is straight from the footnote portion / small text at the bottom of the web page .
Ah , OK , I think I found a resolution . It 's still not quite clear why this works or why there is a problem , but : First , head to the Settings in your iPhone . Click on General . Next , head to Date and Time which is down the list . Once you 're in there , you 'll want to change Set Automatically to Off . Go to Set Date &amp; Time . Click on Today 's Date . Once you do that , you 'll be given the option to change the date . Move the year one year forward to 2013 . This will prevent the error from happening . If you wish to change the date back to the real date , simply set Set Automatically to On and everything will return to normal . Head into Passbook and marvel at the apps . ( <URL> ) That fixes the issue on my phone .
Apple 's own applications have the capability to do " real " background processing and multitasking . User created applications have " some " capability ( and limited time ) to perform " certain " background processing and multitasking . With that said , most apps that need to finish a task , can do so because Apple has provided a way to do such things .
It must be about the batteries but for what I 've experienced so far it 's not about energy , but about their length , at a very slight scale . Since two days I had this problem again - it occured like almost 10 times this morning . So I removed the battery cover , and put a flat piece of folded paper towel upon the batteries , in a way that when I put the cover back again , it is slightly bent , just what it needs to ensure a firm pressure on the batteries , so they wo n't move at all . My conclusion is : problem solved . tl ; dr : you can fix Apple 's 80 $ mouse with 2 sheets of toilet paper
Mail.app has no categories , but the Outlook 2011 on Mac has . Also making Mail communicate with Exchange server is tricky , however Outlook 2011 will do that . So she can still use her mac with Outlook for work , and mail for all other emails .
Apparently , Push Notifications Permission are reset if the devices are restored or the app is uninstalled for a day . Extracted from <URL> The first time a push-enabled app registers for push notifications , iOS asks the user if they wish to receive notifications for that app . Once the user has responded to this alert it is not presented again unless the device is restored or the app has been uninstalled for at least a day . Therefore , these preferences must be stored where iOS System Settings are stored .
No iPhone has native support for apt-X , but you can buy a dongle such as the <URL> or a similar one from Creative to enable apt-X support .
No , the PIN Code does n't prevent you from using the camera shortcut . Just make sure to double-press the home button to show the camera shortcut . Note : you ca n't access your old photos as long as the iPhone is locked .
I get the same results . Only 4 clients receive an IP from the the main AP . Seems to be an undocumented hard limit on the Express when in client / proxysta mode
KeyLemon looks like what you want : <URL> It has a free version , but I do n't believe it will replace the login screen .
It 's very likely to be the speaker . Because yes , speaker use magnets . It 's on opposite side of the top speaker only and looking at <URL> ( courtesy of <URL> ) there is nothing else that is magnetic .
Supported resolutions Retina , Ratio 16:10 2880 by 1800 pixels scaled , Ratio 16:10 1920 x 1200 pixels 1680 x 1050 pixels 1280 x 800 pixels 1024 x 640 pixels According to the <URL> by Apple . How does the scaling work ? According to an <URL> : Selecting any of these options gives you the effective desktop resolution of the setting , but Apple actually renders the screen at a higher resolution and scales it to fit the 2880 x 1800 panel . As a result of this scaled rendering , there can be a performance and quality impact . There is a new option to configure the resolution in the system settings . While you actually change the resolution , Apple only refers to the visual impact of the settings . So basically changing the resolution offers : Large text , but much crisper . More space for visual content ( and smaller text ) , but not as sharp . Something in-between ( default retina ) . ( original picture from AnandTech ) Note : Due to the imprecise definition of " retina display " , this answer may seem confusing , because at the top Apple speaks of 2880x1800 as retina , but the picture suggest something different .
I have both and can confirm that the iPad Mini 4 does not have the iPhone 6S TouchID Sensor . Side by side the iPad feels more like the iPhone 6 where you have to pause on the button to authenticate . Quite disappointing .
A simple solution is to use the mute switch on the side of the phone . The camera shutter sound is controlled by the ringer volume , since the mute switch mutes the ringer the shutter sound is also mute . However , you are asking an optional permanent solution . So far there is none . The application does n't have any additional options within the app or within System Preferences . Digging into the app store there is a simple camera application called Secret Camera - Taking Photo Secretly for $ 1.99 . <URL> It looks like it functions like the normal Camera application , but reading its description it does n't explicitly mention a shutter mute option . I assume this is an implied feature due to the app 's name .
I just came upon the site I was looking for in relation to this question . I 'm posting it in case others inquire . <URL> - b
The Late 2015 iMac 5K with AMD 395X can support two external 4K ( UHD ) displays ( at the full 3840x2160 res ) with the builtin iMac display set to 5120x2880 FYI . This is the configuration that I am currently running ( with 10.11.2 ) , using two LG 27MU67 displays attached via DisplayPort-to-miniDP cables on each of the iMac 's thunderbolt ports .
There were quite a few changes . The biggest is that this is the first version of iOS 4 for the iPad , which brings multitasking , folders , unified inbox , air print , air play , and more . This is also the unifying iOS so that the iPad and iPhone and iPod Touch are running the same OS now . You can find an entire list at <URL>
end question
start question
How do I get iOS 5 on my iPod touch ?
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
I 'd say yes . I just upgraded a pair of 2nd gen iPod Touches to iOS 4.2 and it 's been really solid so far - it has n't slowed down the device or impacted the battery as far as I can tell . If you have an Airport Express or new Apple TV the AirPlay feature is very nice - this Thanksgiving I really enjoyed being able to stream music to a pair of speakers directly from the iPod in my pocket . ( this will affect your battery as the device has to keep WiFi active to stream )
The 6th generation iPod touch has 1GB of RAM and runs at 1.10 GHz according to <URL> .
Normally , to shut down an iPod touch : Hold down the Sleep/Wake button on top of the device . ( NOT the Home button on the front . ) Use the <URL> link below to find the manual for your device . Then " slide to power off " when prompted . I suspect you may be holding down the Home button , which invokes the Voice Command . From <URL> : How to restart Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears . Drag the slider to turn your device completely off . After the device turns off , press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again until you see the Apple logo . You can <URL> for iPod touch .
The short answer to your question is no . You will not lose your games . However , you must know how to save them and how to bring them back after upgrading to iOS 5 . A friend of mine with an iPod Touch had the same concerns about his saved Angry Birds data . I walked him thru upgrading to iOS 5 and this is how we did it : Using iTunes and an USB cable , we backed up the iPod Touch . Make sure you are running the latest version of iTunes ( 10.5 as of this writing ) . We upgraded to iOS 5 from the Summary tab for his device . Once iOS 5 starts , on the initial setup screens ( in the iPod Touch itself ) , we told the iPod Touch to restore from a backup in iTunes . We continued the rest of the set up as normal . We used his Apple ID to create an iCloud account . I highly recommend using iCloud . Once you 're done with the initial setup , you can go to your device in iTunes and check on " Use Wi-Fi syncing for this device " . You can detach the USB cable for good -- This is one of my favorite features of iOS 5 . In the iPod Touch , we went to Settings > iCloud > Backup and Storage to tell iCloud to backup this device . You can then manually trigger your first backup from that screen . Once backup is completed , your device will show up on this same screen as backed up . You can tap on its name to go to another screen where you can individually set which apps you want to keep in and out of your iCloud backup . This is very handy when deciding how to use your iCloud storage space . Most apps take very little space on the server , but there may be some apps that not , so it is worth to take a peek . This screen tells you exactly how much each app is using . Make sure to add all of your games that have data that you wish to back up . Next time you need to restore your device , iCloud will restore all of your saved games this way over the air , rather than having to restore from iTunes with a USB cable . Hope this helps .
The unresponsive iPhone/iPod Touch home button is a known problem . I had an iPhone which started with the same problem as yours . At first the home button worked with just a soft touch , and from any angle . Then it started to work only with a hard press and not at all from certain angles . Finally , it either completely ignored presses , or responded to a single press as if it had been pressed twice ( multitasking bar appeared ) . It was still inside the one-year warranty , but I bought AppleCare anyway , figuring that it might recur . I took it to an Apple Store and the guy played with it for a minute , told me I had a faulty device and gave me a brand new iPhone . The home button ca n't be replaced , so they just give you a new one . My advice it to take it to an Apple Store if there 's one nearby , or if not call Apple and report the problem . Most likely you 'll get a new , working iPod Touch .
Apparently you can ! If you want to try this out for yourself , here is the navigation to get to the setting : Enabling AssistiveTouch : Settings App > General > Scroll Down to Accessibility > Scroll Down to AssistiveTouch ' Toggle on AssistiveTouch . Switching to Landscape : Lock the device in portrait mode Press Floating Square > Device > Rotate Screen > Left/Right <URL> ... ... ... ... . .
By now it is possible to down-grade your baseband - at least for the iPhone 3G and 3GS ( unfortunately not 4/S ) - from the iPad 's 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( un-lockable ) thanks to the great work of the iPhone Dev Team : The iPhone Dev Team is happy to announce a baseband downgrade option in redsn0w for those who are using the iPad 's 06.15 baseband on the iPhone3G or iPhone3GS . Typically you 'd have the 06.15 baseband if you unlock with ultrasn0w but updated your iPhone baseband past 05.13.04 . With this new capability , you can now downgrade specifically from 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( even if you never had 05.13.04 on that device before ) . This gives you the best of both worlds : ultrasn0w compatibility and a normal iPhone baseband with full GPS and the ability to use stock IPSWs again . See <URL> on their blog .
Indeed @cksum appears to be correct . I just tested this on my dev device that 's never had Facebook installed . The app said that it knew my location and showed the blue location icon , but did n't show in the list of apps in Location Services . I pressed ' send ' and got the ' Facebook wants to use your location ' message , which I accepted and now the app is in the list and allowed me to switch it off . In conclusion , yes it appears that Facebook does n't request the actual location data until you press send , at which point the app is added to the list in Settings .
Yes , all updates to iOS so far have been backwards-compatible with older versions of apps , so the apps should work fine .
None of what you want is possible . And it never will be possible until suddenly Apple and Microsoft get married and the marriage is watched on live television by more than 50 million people worldwide .
Since my speaker system is hooked up to my desktop computer I use <URL> to airplay music and podcasts from my iphone to my desktop .
<URL> , the 4th gen iPod Touch has 256MB , not 512MB like the iPhone 4. : Breaking news : the iPod Touch has only 256 MB RAM , same Samsung part markings as iPad .
As of iOS 5 , this problem is even simpler . Many views will scroll overflowing information , but you can also simply tap and hold on many sources of text in order to view them in a significantly smaller font size in a back pop-up tooltip , which greatly expands the amount of text that can be fit in the width of the iPhone 's screen size . Note that my previous answer still applies ( below ) , but this tooltip is usually quite a bit faster and much more direct . For all iOS versions before iOS 5 : My answer on the <URL> Question covers this as well . You can use Cover Flow view ( rotate your device to Landscape while in the iPod/Music app after selecting a song ) in order to greatly increase the amount of room used to display song information . Your title is particularly large , I do n't know what the landscape/Cover Flow view limit is . I do n't have any songs that exceed it yet :) .
This separation of " sound effects " and " games/music " exists in iPod Touch 4 as well . There is no way for tuning a master volume on these devices . But you can set the " sound effects " volume as constant ( - - turn off ) and pressing volume buttons will only change the " games/music " volume .
No , but you can create an image that has your name and contact info on it , then use that as your lock screen wallpaper . You could also create a note on the device or an " emergency/lost " contact in the address book , but both of those require you to not use a passcode to use the device . A wallpaper with contact info works even if the person who finds your iPod ca n't unlock it .
Well , some of the costs come from the GSM components that the iPhone has , others come from the production process , which is different . Then there is the amount of RAM is 512 MB for iPhone and 256 MB for the iPod Touch . Also , the iPhone has a compass . The rear cameras are different - 5 Megapixel camera for the iPhone and 0,7 Megapixel for the iPod .
In a word ? Nope . The app store provides a couple of facilities for getting applications , but all of them are for the most recent versions . There 's a chance that you may be able to use un-delete software on your iTunes App directory and recover it , if the data space has not already been overwritten . Otherwise , you must preserve IPA 's that iTunes throws into the Trash , else they 're pretty much gone forever . Additionally , to the best of my knowledge , IPA binaries are unique on a downloaded system , for DRM purposes , so I believe you can not simply obtain an archived version from a friend , and send it back into iTunes .
The best , or , most commonly used method for transcoding DVDs and DivX files to an iPod would be <URL> . Handbrake has presets for almost all current iDevices . I 'd start by reading the Handbrake <URL> and selecting iPod Touch from the destination presets ( image on Stage 2 from the guide ) and adjusting select a target bit rate of 700ish for a device with that small of a screen . If you 're interested in scripting out the process to save time Handbrake has a great CLI and <URL> that would streamline the process . Another popular solution would be <URL> .
Having used 4.2 GM on my iPhone 4 for a couple of weeks now I personally find it much much better at managing and minimising memory usage ( regular checks using iStat ) . This should translate to better performance on older devices with limited RAM as less RAM to flash swapping will be required .
end question
start question
Does iTunes Home Sharing transfer in-app purchases ?
Firstly , you must bear in mind that each In-App Purchase is uniquely associated with an Apple ID and that there are different In-App Purchase types : Consumable - You need to purchase these items every time you want them , and you ca n't download them again for free . Non-Consumable - You purchase these items one time , and you can transfer them to multiple devices authorized with the same iTunes Store account . Non-renewing Subscriptions - You can purchase these items again after the subscription period ends . Auto-Renewable Subscriptions - You can purchase these items with different renewal periods . There are , therefore , differences in the way the availability of the product is handled . As stated on Apple 's <URL> : You ca n't sync or transfer non-renewing subscriptions and consumable In-App Purchase to another iOS device or Mac . You can transfer non-consumable In-App Purchases and auto-renewable subscriptions to another iOS device or Mac authorized with your iTunes Store account . For example , if you transfer a game from an iPhone to an iPod touch , only the game levels will sync , and the extra ammo and experience points wo n't transfer .
The best practice in storing app credentials is the Keychain . If you really need to recover the password check out this guide <URL> In iTunes , go to the " Summary " section , scroll to Backups , and enable the " Encrypt iPhone backup " option . After recovery , feel free to wipe the new iPhone . In case the app did not store in Keychain , you can use this technique to migrate app data individually <URL> Before we start , we should note this works for any iOS device . So if you want to back up and transfer data for iPads , iPhones , or between the two , this works . To manually backup and transfer data , we 're going to use the free Mac and Windows program iExplorer . You do n't need to jailbreak your iPhone to use iExplorer and it 's easy to pull data from your iPhone to transfer it to your new device . Here 's how to do it . Download the app you want to transfer data to on your new iPad . Plug your iPhone into your computer . Start up iExplorer and wait for your device to show up in the file browser . Click the arrow next to your device name . Click the arrow next to Apps . Find the app you want to transfer data from and click the arrow . Inside the app 's main folder is a folder called Documents . That 's where your saved data and game saves are located . Copy it to your desktop . Disconnect your iPhone from your computer and plug in your iPad . In iExplorer , find the app you want to transfer data to on your iPad using the same steps from above . Locate the Documents folder and copy all the data you just copied to your desktop folder onto the iPad . That 's it , you 're done . Different apps use different save files and occasionally the above process will require you to copy several files over . Other times you only have one file . This process works for most apps , but not all of them . Let 's take a look at a few of the instances where data does n't transfer over properly . Do n't forget to look at the caveats because sometimes this technique does not work .
Search for the App in the iTunes store ( OS X or iOS as appropriate ) and then look for the stars to rate and then write a detailed review . You should be asked to sign in to your Apple ID and you must have purchased the app to write a review . If you received a gift or promotional copy , you might not be able to write a review in some cases . The Write a Review text is below the ScreenShots section so you may need to scroll the content up to see the link to submit a review .
I am 99.9 % sure that the choice is Door # 3 ( Door # 4 is the other ) .
Apple has a very nice explanation of how Migration Assistant works , what steps and accessories you need and much more : <URL> In a nutshell , Migration Assistant has three bins of data to move : Applications ( just the programs - no user data or settings transfer ) Users ( the user data , settings , preferences , saved files and such - but no Applications . You could have all your Word docs , but no Word to edit them in this case ) Everything else that 's not an App or a User . This gets oddball things like / Users/Shared files and folders that do n't belong to one user , unix and command line tools like homebrew that get installed outside / Applications and / Users . So with three check marks ( let 's assume you do n't have multiple users ) , there are 7 combinations you could migrate - each leaving a different set of data on the destination Mac . ( If Applications was A , Users was B , and Everything else C ) You could combine them as follows : A , B , C , A+B , B+C , A+C , or A+B+C I would say , you get to experiment when you get your new Mac . Run the migration you think is best , and then test it . If you do n't like it , erase the destination Mac ( booting into recovery mode , erasing the HD and re-install a clean OS might take 25 minutes on a fast network - the OS download is 4 Gb or so ) and re-run the assistant . For me , I would recommend both migrating from your Backup and then optionally re-migrating from the old Mac . It 's important to test your backup - when was the last time you tested a restore to be sure you have a viable backup ? Everyone says " make sure you back up " but they really mean and might be better saying is , " make sure you can restore your backup and it has what you need ! " I would encourage you to configure your Time Machine on the old Mac to exclude any things you do n't want moved to the new Mac , make a back up and write down the time of the back up . Then eject the backup drive and change the backup settings to back everything up again . You could take that " latest " backup and Migrate it to the new Mac and test for a while ( re-connecting the backup drive to the old Mac ) to keep your " main " Mac backing up . As you test the new mac for a day or so , you can decide it 's time to move over . At that point , turn off Time Machine on the old Mac and connect the backup drive to the new Mac . It will offer to " inherit " the old backups and you can move forward . Worst case , you still have the backups to restore something needed and then can clear the old Mac for donation , sale or mothballing .
There is n't a limit to this ( or there is n't yet a limit that is imposed by Apple ) ; you should be able to install iOS apps that you purchase on all your iOS devices ( obviously using the same Apple ID ) . From the <URL> : APP STORE PRODUCT USAGE RULES ( i ) If you are an individual acting in your personal capacity , you may download and sync an App Store Product for personal , noncommercial use on any iOS Device you own or control .
Do n't know of a way to specifically do that , but you can set up browser bookmarks and/or desktop icons that will connect to specific hosts , if that 's any help . For the former , create a bookmark that points to vnc : / / hostname.blah.com rather than the more usual <URL> . For the latter , create a text file with the . command suffix ( e.g. ' myvnc.command ' ) that contains the single line : which will start the screen sharing session when you double-click it in Finder . You can also drag it to your dock if you wish .
Shift + Command + H takes you to your home folder Command + UpArrow takes you one folder up Have a look at the " Go To " menu in Finder for additional key combinations . Some people like to use the ~ character and the Go to Folder ... shortcut as that expands to the current user 's home folder like on other UNIX operating systems . You may also want to have a look at <URL> which contains a huge list of OS X Lion keyboard shortcuts .
The UI for configuring Google Contact Sync in Address Book and in iTunes is intended to support the same feature . If it is enabled in one place and not enabled in another place , it is a bug in the Apple software . Pre-iCloud , all contact syncing worked through a service called Sync Services . Google Contact Sync is one of the clients of contact syncing via Sync Services , and both Address Book and iTunes provide a user interface for enabling Google Contact Sync .
Start and stop times do sync , as well as volume adjustments . EQ settings sync as well . However , they only work under the following conditions : You used a preset in iTunes ( not custom EQ settings ) ; and You have EQ disabled on the phone . As backwards as that second one sounds , if you EQ enabled on the phone , it uses that EQ setting and overrides the per-song EQ settings . If you have EQ disabled on the phone , it uses the per-song EQ settings .
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
Found the answer here : <URL> I must say I found this all very confusing . Apple devices normally work so seamlessly together . Why hide this functionality by a checkbox deep inside a preference pane ?
I am assuming this process will work out to be the same as the current situation with iPhones : Backup your iPad using iTunes . Plug new iPad into same computer . Restore new iPad from old iPad backup . When this is done with an iPhone , the new iPhone will be configured exactly as the old one - save games , email apps , photos , everything is transfered . What happens is actually that the backup contains all app data + configuration . The rest is basically a list of stuff that should be synced from your computer to the device ( e.g. music , photos , apps ) .
Most apps with in-app purchases have the ability to redownload those purchases if , for instance , you delete the app &amp; need to reinstall it , or if you are loading the app on another device with the same AppleID . Below , the Restore Purchase button in GarageBand which allows me to download loops I have purchased :
There is a way ! If you go to your Settings > General > Reset , there is an option to reset the home screen layout . Pick that option and all your apps will be rearranged in alphabetical order . But you 'll lose all your folders and maps ...
Launch the iPod App on your iPhone . At the bottom of the screen , you should see a button with 3 blue dots . As you can see here , there is a list item at the bottom of the page . Click that , which should bring you to a screen like : Click the name of the computer that you see in your list and then all of the videos , movies , tv shows , etc , will appear in your lists for those items . In other words , the iPod App wo n't keep the home-shared content separate . You will see the Home Sharing content as if it was integrated with the device .
Apple 's design is not at all a traditional or typical UNIX layout for user files , user preferences or application files and preferences so I would say this is just Apple . They do document exactly how developers are supposed to design OS X apps to take advantage of the " canonical " locations where files and preferences should be stored so that each user can decide to install any application in one or several locations . / Applications / Another volume/Aplications ~ / Applications or anywhere else on the drive since on OS X - you do n't need to place an application anywhere as long as the user can read from the folder - an app should run and store things in the proper pace ( which is NOT in the application folder itself ) . Here are three articles I would start with to learn more : <URL> <URL> <URL> Start Here and skip past the iOS part and go directly to Table 1-2 for OS X summary of important folders .
I have had an app rejected for two reasons before , and once these were resolved , the app was approved . I presume all rejection reasons will be provided , but I ca n't be certain , and the app may be rejected for another reason if it is reviewed by a different person than it was reviewed by the first time .
There are a number of methods an app can use to uniquely identify a device or user . Transitory ( persistent whilst app is installed ) Unique identifier generated by the app and saved in a property list or other equivalent storage in the app sandbox 's Library or Documents folder . Hashed login or equivalent to determine user . CFUUID ( <URL> ) identifierForVendor ( <URL> ) Permanent MAC address of device ( not recommended by Apple for these purposes ) . Advertising Identifier ( can be reset in Settings ; <URL> ) . Depreciated UDID ( <URL> )
I still do n't know why it was doing this , but I 've since set iTunes to automatically delete played podcasts after 1 day , and stopped deleting them manually . That does what I need .
end question
start question
Can I watch 1080p torrents while downloading ?
We need a torrent client that can download the movie file parts in order , not randomly . We need a player that supports playing incomplete files . We need a connection that is faster than the movie 's bitrate ( and a torrent with enough peers obviously ) . The torrent client Previously I used <URL> . It is developed by a technology institute in Zurich . It did n't have a polished GUI and took a little bit too much CPU while downloading . There 's new client I found thanks to @diimdeep . It is called <URL> and it is awesome . <URL> You can see that while downloading it downloads as a normal torrent client -- the parts are downloaded randomly : <URL> But there is an option : <URL> After that we can see that the rest of the file is being downloaded sequentially ( blue -- downloaded , green -- requested ) : <URL> The connection speed How can we tell if the speed is good enough ? By the estimated time of arrival ( ETA ) : <URL> If the movie is 1.5 hours and the ETA is 17 minutes , then the speed is sufficient . The player The player is and always has been <URL> ( I do n't know why the domain is Hungarian ) low cpu usage plays almost anything ( although very rarely it crashes and burns ) lots of options ( boosting volume , control of cache on streams , indexing ... ) arrow keys navigation ( I ca n't live without that ) playing incomplete files ( and reindexing them , which allows navigation ) I use <URL> - a nice OSX gui . Download and associate movie files with mplayer ( avi , mkg ) : <URL> The final step is to to play the file after the downloading started : <URL> That 's it . <URL> Happy watching .
We need a torrent client that can download the movie file parts in order , not randomly . We need a player that supports playing incomplete files . We need a connection that is faster than the movie 's bitrate ( and a torrent with enough peers obviously ) . The torrent client Previously I used <URL> . It is developed by a technology institute in Zurich . It did n't have a polished GUI and took a little bit too much CPU while downloading . There 's new client I found thanks to @diimdeep . It is called <URL> and it is awesome . <URL> You can see that while downloading it downloads as a normal torrent client -- the parts are downloaded randomly : <URL> But there is an option : <URL> After that we can see that the rest of the file is being downloaded sequentially ( blue -- downloaded , green -- requested ) : <URL> The connection speed How can we tell if the speed is good enough ? By the estimated time of arrival ( ETA ) : <URL> If the movie is 1.5 hours and the ETA is 17 minutes , then the speed is sufficient . The player The player is and always has been <URL> ( I do n't know why the domain is Hungarian ) low cpu usage plays almost anything ( although very rarely it crashes and burns ) lots of options ( boosting volume , control of cache on streams , indexing ... ) arrow keys navigation ( I ca n't live without that ) playing incomplete files ( and reindexing them , which allows navigation ) I use <URL> - a nice OSX gui . Download and associate movie files with mplayer ( avi , mkg ) : <URL> The final step is to to play the file after the downloading started : <URL> That 's it . <URL> Happy watching .
In iTunes you can simply right click the app in question and choose Get Info . On the summary tab you can see the account used to purchase the app .
In addition to the aluminium vs stainless steel case , The Apple Watch has a <URL> cover as opposed to the Apple Watch Sport 's <URL> cover . In addition , there are more options for bands that can be used with Apple Watch . Specifically , while the <URL> is sold just with the Sport band , the <URL> is available with the Sport Band , the Classic Buckle , the Milanese Loop , the Leather Loop , the Link Bracelet , and the Modern Buckle . However , you can purchase any band to go with your watch as every band will fit every watch . In effect , you can get the Apple Watch Sport model and then purchase the Milanese Loop to wear with it . Changing bands on all models is easy .
The best bet right now seems to be AirPlay via the <URL> , which seems to provide higher quality than the other things I 've tried . <URL> . Here 's what I 've discovered about each one that might have promise : Success CNN : AirPlay via iPhone app . Appears to have the best video quality . YouTube : AirPlay via the <URL> in iPhone 's Safari appears to work ! ( Confirmed with pre-show live stream ) . Can not find stream in any ove AppleTV app , Apple-provided iPhone app , nor YouTube-provided iPhone app . Might work Ustream : AirPlay via the <URL> in iPhone 's Safari was working , is currently unavailable . Unable to find stream in iPhone app Likely not possible ABC News : no indication the iPhone app will have a live stream ; the article claims it will be available via <URL> . C-SPAN : website stream requires Flash , mobile site does n't show stream Hulu Plus : AppleTV app gives no indication they will have the stream . The Wall Street Journal : AppleTV WSJ Live app says WSJ Live is unavailable . Not tried yet Politico Univision Aereo Ponderoo
No , it will complete the purchase request regardless . It just wo n't run on your device . If you did make a purchase that does n't run on your current device , you will have to contact the <URL> .
You can listen to music on the Apple Watch without your iPhone . In this answer , you 'll learn how to sync a playlist and pair your bluetooth headphones . Make a music playlist You can keep one music playlist on your Apple Watch at a time . Audiobooks and podcasts are n't compatible . On your iPhone , go to the Music app . Tap My Music > Playlists > New . Give your playlist a name , and then tap Add Songs . Search or tap to find songs , artists , or albums to add . When you find something that you 'd like to add , tap " + " . After you add the item , tap Done . You can then search for more music to add . When you 're done adding music , tap Done to save your playlist . ( A ) Sync your playlist Set your Apple Watch on its charger and make sure the device is charging . On your iPhone , go to Settings > Bluetooth . Make sure Bluetooth is turned on . From the Apple Watch app on your iPhone , tap My Watch > Music > Synced Playlist . Tap the playlist you want to sync to your Apple Watch . When a message next to your playlist says Sync Pending , your playlist will begin syncing from your iPhone to your Apple Watch . Wait until the sync is finished before using your Apple Watch . To see the sync progress , open the Apple Watch app on your iPhone and tap Music . You might need to download any music stored in the cloud , such as music from Apple Music or iTunes Match , to your iPhone before you can sync it with the Watch . ( B ) <URL> Pair Bluetooth headphones with your Apple Watch To listen to music on your Apple Watch , you 'll need to connect to Bluetooth headphones : Put your Bluetooth headphones in pairing mode using the instructions that came with them . You might need to enter a passkey or PIN ( Personal Identification Number ) . On your Apple Watch , go to Settings > Bluetooth . Your Apple Watch will search for nearby Bluetooth devices . Choose your Bluetooth headphones and enter a passkey or PIN if asked . Listen to the playlist on your Apple Watch After pairing your headphones , you can listen to your synced playlist without an iPhone : From the Home screen on your Apple Watch , tap the Music app . Force Touch , then tap Source > Apple Watch . Tap play to listen to your playlist . <URL>
For watchOS3 : Press and hold the Side Button Press and hold the Digital Crown For watchOS2 : When the app that you would like to terminate is open : Press and hold the Side Button and wait until the shut down screen appear . Then let go of the side button . Press and hold the Side button again until the home screen appears . Your formerly active app has now been terminated . PS : The Side Button is the button below the Digital Crown .
When it 's available for free and you buy it you get it for free . It 's impossible to charge you afterwards because when you decide to download it because it 's free . Many apps become free over time , and that 's one of the ways how I save a lot of money . So in short , free = free ( watch out for in-app purchases though , they are never free ! ) To give you a better detail about updating apps : It 's free if they update the same app , not if they decide to put a complete new application in the AppStore .
Your computer iTunes is waiting for the iPhone to " fix itself " and clean up from the interrupted sync . The mobile iTunes database ( and I 'm sure several others ) will need to be rebuilt to clean up after an interrupted sync . You can see/test this by disconnecting your iOS device in the middle of podcast or music syncing . If you then immediately start up iTunes for iOS - you will get an Updating LIbrary screen while it itdbprepserver does its work . You 'll get a " verifying message " until these post-sync and interrupted-sync cleanup activities finish . Once iTunes on the desktop has " verified " the phone is ready to start another sync , it commences with the normal backup and sync activities . My timing shows the interrupted recovery to take twice the time of a normal sync completion but usually less than a minute either way .
Plex Media Server offers " sync " functionality to devices if you have a Plex Pass subscription ( starts at $ 3.99 / month , less per month for longer subscription periods ) . You initiate the sync either from the Plex web app or device by selecting movie ( s ) to sync , and it then transcodes your selected media into a format appropriate for iPad . You then open the iOS app to download it directly to the device . See <URL> for a run-through . For adding torrents , the best solution I 've found is to use Dropbox . If you do n't already have a Dropbox account , <URL> . Download the <URL> onto your server . In the Mac menu bar , a new icon of an open box will appear . Tap on that , then tap on the folder icon to the left to open the Dropbox folder . Here , create a folder called " torrents " ( or whatever you like ) . In Transmission , go to Preferences > Transfers and set the Auto Add directory to the Dropbox directory you just created , which will be stored locally at / Users/yourusername/Dropbox / torrents / or whatever you called it . On the iPad , install the Dropbox client . Next time you want to add a torrent , act as if you 're downloading it to the iPad . Since you ca n't actually download files to the iPad , the screen will change to show the filename , and will have a " Open in Dropbox " link at the top-right . Tap on that , then select the torrents folder you created in Dropbox . Tap Save at the upper right . After a few seconds , the file will sync to Dropbox from the iPad , then from Dropbox to your server . Since Transmission is watching the directory where it will appear on your server , it will be picked up and automatically added . There 's a few steps involved in setting this workflow up , but once done , it 's maintenance-free .
Just figured it out - Connect to AirPlay , so that both video and audio streams are going to the TV Open System Preferences > Sound . Click " output " tab . Select your bluetooth speakers . Voila .
It is possible to set a conversation in Messages to " Do Not Disturb " . This will cause notifications to stop and will put a small moon icon next to the conversation . Works great !
All third party apps on the Watch currently are going to be slower than grabbing the iPhone , unless you ca n't get at the phone due to social constraints or it being inaccessible in a bag or pocket or some distance from you and the watch . This is because Apple has made every effort to let no code run on the watch at release . Third party apps get to run nothing on the watch . They do n't get access to the digital crown , force touch , regular touch , sensor data or the speaker/microphone directly . They only pre-load some potential answers and pictures ( think flash cards and a small photo album ) and all the work gets done on the iPhone OS . If you want an answer quickly , get your phone out and access the apps there directly . That saves the Watch from constructing a network connection to the phone , waking it up if needed , activating the app in the background and then telling the app what to do so that the phone app can then tell the watch what images / text to display . If those assets are not pre-loaded on the watch , you then have to wait for them to transfer . The watch will be faster than the phone only when the phone can push events to the watch on its own behalf . For Dark Sky - perhaps you have a severe weather alert that the phone detects in the background or due to a push notification from the Dark Sky servers to the phone using APNS . Then the phone knows there is a watch and pushes a notification to it . You 'll get that notification on the watch before you can pull out your phone . Worse , most of the apps that are shipping are programmed only in the Xcode simulator and not by developers that have used the watch . A select few developers had the chance to tweak their app with pre-release watches and in the past few weeks with hardware , but most apps just ca n't be great yet . It 's like reading a book about how to learn to ride a bike and then playing with a bike riding simulator . Developers need to go out and ride their bikes and crash , skin their knees , crash some more before they know how to actually ride that new bike . Here are some developer perspectives explaining this in more detail : <URL> <URL> The two apple watch apps I was involved in were not shipped . After evaluating the risk of shipping a smiling , we decided the benefit of being " First " was n't worth the high chance of wasting our time and our user 's time until we actually know if the app would be useful .
This may be the built in " undocumented " to non-developers feature of Lion called Automatic Termination that is causing Xcode to quit when you do n't want it to . As noted in " <URL> " Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination .
Turns out that the <URL> ( iTunes link ) app can indeed do this ! Workflow supports showing a workflow as a complication , with one tap to trigger that workflow . A workflow can be as simple as " using this text , send a message to this person " . Putting those two together , you can have a two-tap system to send an iMessage or SMS to someone : activate the complication , and push " send " . Here 's the workflow I used to test this : Text : This block holds the text you want to send , and passes it to the next block Send Message : Takes text and sends it to a predetermined recipient <URL> The Workflow widget is the GPS marker icon on the top-left . <URL> <URL> Nota bene : If you have multiple workflows visible on your watch , the complication cycles through them throughout the day . If you only have one , it only shows the one .
Go into the menu on your external monitor . If there 's an option that allows one device to toggle the power on the other via HDMI , make sure this is deselected ( honestly , I do n't think this will have an effect as your laptop is doing the driving , but for the sake of troubleshooting ... ) . I too use an MBP Retina with external monitor ( via HDMI ) . If I shut off the external monitor while it has application windows in its desktop , the screen on my laptop refreshes and said windows are moved to my laptop 's display . However , if I power the external monitor back on , these application windows " automagically " move back to where they were ( same location and size ) on the external ' Desktop ( as long as I have n't shut down the computer in the meantime ) . So , it seems one solution ( if you 're hard set against also using your laptop ' display ) is to leave the laptop open , but decrease the brightness of the screen to 0 . I do this all the time when watching a movie on the big screen , and , truly , the laptop ' profile is no less " bulky " than it would be if it was closed . An additional benefit to this method is that the laptop stays cooler ( than it otherwise would by closing it ) . You can verify this with any free temperature-monitoring app . If the above does not work or is otherwise intolerable , you 're looking at some heavy Linux scripting to get something like this to work ( which , even for an expert programmer , should prove to be a great learning experience , if its even possible ) .
What seems to work is signing out from my Apple ID ( using the Apple ID link at the bottom of the App Store ) , then shutting off the device ( hold the power button ) . Then I turn back on the device , go to the App store , enter my Apple ID info , and then try to download/update an app again . Just restarting or relogging in to my Apple ID alone did n't seem to be enough .
The <URL> states : Yes and no , it really depends . Performance will be affected during the clone ( especially the first one ) as CCC reads the entire source volume and writes to the destination volume . If your work is " disk bound " -- that is your applications are reading or writing to either the source or destination , then you 'll notice a performance hit . If you 're just reading email or writing a Pages document , then you probably wo n't notice the performance hit . Affecting the accuracy of the backup task is something else that should be considered . Typically it 's OK to work from the source volume while you 're copying it , with the understanding that if CCC copied a file , then you open it , make changes , save it , then CCC completes the backup task , the modified version of your document is not backed up ( this time around ) . Typically that 's no big deal , the modifications will get backed up the next time the backup task runs . More importantly , though , if you 're working with large files ( mounted disk image , Entourage email database , VMWare/Parallels container ) during the backup operation , it is possible that those large files could be modified while CCC is backing up that file . This wo n't affect the source file , but there 's a good chance that the backup version of that file will be corrupt . For this reason it is a good idea to stop using applications that may be modifying large files . TL ; DR : there is performance hit depending on the intensity of file I/O you produce ; files you work on will not be backed up ; large files may get corrupted .
One way to tell if a device has connected to your iTunes is to check the preferences and see if there is a device backup . When you can connect a device to iTunes it creates a backup of the device ( if you are syncing stuff to and from it ) . In your case it sounds like you wan na find out if your books have been syncing to another device . Open iTunes Preferences : Windows : Choose Edit > Preferences Mac : Choose iTunes > Preferences There will be no way for you to see what specifically was sycned , this will only tell you if a device has synced , and when .
end question
start question
What happens when I select " new station from song " in iTunes 12.2 ?
Seems like this is a bug in iTunes , happens to me as well as others . There 's a few posts on the apple support forum : <URL> <URL> <URL> There 's more if you search there , but no solutions available . UPDATE : Bug is fixed for me in iTunes 12.2.2.25
Here is my little script to do what you are asking for . Tested on a couple of tracks on my iTunes 11 under Snow Leopard and it run just fine . EDIT : You can get a glimpse of what is going on by looking at the output it sents to the Events pane . Just run it inside the Applescript Editor and click on the Events &amp; Replies buttons to unhighlight them . EDIT2 : To limit the script you can change the line to
Yes . Purchased . m4a files contain the purchaser 's name &amp; email address used in the related Apple ID . A quick way round it is to just re-encode them as AAC . With iTunes in Music view , My music right click the column header &amp; make sure ' Kind ' is showing . click that column to sort by Kind scroll to find ' Protected AAC ' songs . right-click/Get Info [ or ⌘ Cmd i ] then see the File tab [ iTunes 12 ] or the Summary tab [ iTunes 11 or earlier ] This will show the purchaser info . To remove ... Preferences > General > Import Settings ... Make sure it 's set to AAC Encoder ( &amp; iTunes Plus for better quality ) Then for each protected song ... right click or File Menu - Create AAC Version . Then delete the old protected versions . You 'll have to do that alphabetically , as in your current sort view , they wo n't show in the same place in the list . Examples of tagging before &amp; after re-encoding as AAC ... Incidentally , it was proved empirically back in 2007 that the audio itself contains no watermark . <URL> Before - from iTunes Store I 've blurred anything that could possibly be identifying After ...
In order to uninstall iTunes , you need to delete ( drag to the Trash ) a lot of items : The application 's icon . ( a lot of files ) and drag them to the Trash . Look in / Library / folder for an iTunes folder and if you find one drag it to the Trash . Look in / Home/Library / folder for an iTunes folder and drag it to the Trash . Last , in / Home/Library/Preferences / ByHost / folder look for two files with names com.apple.nnnnnnn.plist and drag them to the Trash . Open Activity Monitor ( Utilities folder ) and in the process list look for iTunesHelper . Select it , then click on Quit Process icon . Quit or Force Quit the process . Now open the Accounts preference pane , click on Login Items tab , look for the iTunesHelper entry and select it , then click the button and remove it from the list . Empty the Trash . This should fully remove iTunes and its associated files/folders . You can find all the information <URL> . But , there is no harm in deleting iTunes , except other iLife apps ( iMovie , iPhoto , ... ) wo n't be able to get music out of the iTunes library for compiling their things ( movies , slideshows , ... ) So I 'm seriously wondering why you want to delete iTunes at all . My advice is to leave it as it is and just ignore it . You wo n't do any harm by it if you just leave iTunes there .
Your iPhone will return to factory settings as if you had a new iPhone .
Right click the song in iTunes and choose Get Info . Second from the right is the section " Lyrics " where you can paste the lyrics of the song . The lyrics will show up on top of the album art when the song is played on the iPod . Tap the album art to show it if you do n't have all the controls visible .
Okay well if you want a simple way to batch delete duplicates with the naming convention , you can do it very easily from the terminal . First open up your terminal . Then navigate to the folder you are trying to delete stuff from . This is done by using the command . For example , if your photos are stored in you would type . From there you can type to make sure you are in the right folder , and it should list the contents of your folder . After that , all you have to do is type : and it will delete any photo that has in the name !
The AppleScript for this is pretty simple : You can make this easily accessible by creating a Service . Open Automator and create a new document . Select the Service document type . Set the Service receives : menu to . Drag in a module and paste that code into its text box . Save the service and give it a name . You 'll now be able to activate it by going to the current app 's menu and choosing Services - > Stop iTunes ( or whatever you named the service ) . You can assign a keyboard shortcut by going to System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Services , finding the service ( it should be under General at the bottom ) and adding a shortcut .
Unlike the Time Capsule , the Airport Extreme does n't support being a backup destination , no matter what drive you use . It is possible to <URL> , but this is unsafe - the AEBS lacks features that help protect data , and without them , the slightest network error can make your backups useless . Some of the technical reasons for this have been explored here : <URL> However , you can look for a network-attached drive that supports Time Machine , such as WD 's My Book Live . These are drives that attach by ethernet instead of USB , and they implement the file-sharing features that Time Machine requires .
You can find some information about the guts of an iPod Shuffle <URL> . Also because the selling point of a Shuffle is price ( and portability ) while still maintaining the Apple quality I do n't think Apple would put much more components into it than what is absolutely necessary .
It depends on the service order set in System Preferences - > Network . The first one that has a route to the requested endpoint will be used . Click on the wheel icon at the bottom left and choose . Then drag the items into the required order . This is the order on m machine which I do not think I have altered .
For the reference : Length : 21.3 CM Width : 14.7 CM Height : 3.3 CM Gross Weight : 0.5 KG
The user buys an app for the price it is sold at that point . Future changes to the price have no effect on them . It is on their Apple ID that they own the app and they will be able to download the app for free as long as it 's available ( no matter the price ) .
It means you can download TV shows you 've purchased in the past for different Apple devices , though it may not always be available to download at all times . <URL>
Nope . Unfortunately , iTunes does not save an exact history of when you played certain songs , only the order in which you heard them . There is no way you can know which song you hear , say , 3 hours and 10 minutes ago ( totally random figures ) .
Gifting only works from iTunes on a computer . Perhaps it could be added if enough people ask to spend money that way . <URL> You can also gift from store apps with iOS 6 .
Right click on the icon and select " New Window " . PS : I know what you need it for :)
Remove rating for one song The app <URL> allows to edit a song 's info manually . I 've successfully tried version 0.14 in Lion . Remove ( suppress ) ratings for all songs You can choose to not show explicit labels for all songs in the parental controls of iTunes : iTunes Preferences - > Parental - > Show content ratings in library
Indeed : restoring from an iCloud backup works the same way as restoring from an iTunes backup and all of your apps will automatically redownload .
If you tap the " Share " icon , you have the option to send photos to the Camera Roll or to share them with iTunes : This interface is quite flexible , you can send the currently selected photos , all the photos , or choose the photos you want to share . Sharing with iTunes creates a folder in the " Apps " section of your device in iTunes that you can save from :
end question
start question
How create a smart playlist that shows only full albums in my library ?
Apple has released a fix for this . In Settings > Music it lets you toggle between showing playlist songs in library or not .
No , there is no way to do this . Also , wifi is only searched for when you actually go to use your phone . It wo n't search for wifi networks constantly while the phone is in your pocket . Your iPhone is very good at managing its own battery usage . Checking what SSIDs exist is very battery efficient . Lastly , you can turn off that annoying prompt that comes up whenever networks are discovered . It 'll still automatically connect to wifi networks that you trust , but that dialog will never appear .
Scroll to the bottom of the playlist . There is a " Download All " button with the cloud download icon . Tap and wait . Unfortunately , I do n't believe there is a way to scroll to the bottom in one gesture , so if the playlist is long , you 'll have to repeatedly swipe until you reach the bottom .
Unfortunately you ca n't easily do Mac-to-Mac syncing of iTunes libraries in that manner . Your best options for networked iTunes access are : iTunes Library Sharing : put your library on the server , and you can get streaming access from your MBP . Downsides : no remote/offline access , you need to be on the same network as the server ; all media/playlist management has to be done on the server . iTunes Home Sharing : same streaming access as above , but you can also copy files from the server to your MBP . Downsides : it 's not syncing , you need to manually select and transfer the songs you want . Store iTunes Library on a Network Share : change the iTunes folder location ( Advanced section in the iTunes Preferences ) to a shared network drive on the server ( or any shared drive , does n't have to be a Mac ) . This gets you local control of the library , just like any standard functions . Downsides : have to be on the local network to get access . With this option you could make a second library ( option-click iTunes when you open it ) on the local drive with a smaller collection of songs you want for off-network access , but again , you do n't have any syncing abilities , you have to manually add what you want . I do n't know that much about iPhoto sharing , I think it 's more limited , but you can always put the iPhoto Library on a network share , as in the third option above , with the same limitations . There 's also iCloud 's Photo Stream , which is fairly limited , but may work if you just want to get recent photos from point A to B.
TomTom calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it . Garmin calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it either . The only app I found that supports this feature is <URL> ( $ 1 , or free <URL> ) . Basically you upload an image to their website , then you use this application to view the map with your location shown on it . From the app description : Once you 've uploaded your map to the website , use this app to view the map on your iPhone . Even better , go to the location the map represents , and view it there . You 'll be amazed when you see your position correctly shown on the map , no matter how much the map is stretched or squashed compared to the geographic space it represents . You wo n't need a data connection to view maps -- great if you 're going abroad .
If you take a close look at your Finder bar , you 'll see a little triangle that is to the right of " Name " ( which is just above the file names ) . Click it , Finder will order your files alphabetically and Finder will remember your choice . By so , it will display the list in alphabetic order next time you open a Finder window .
There is no such interface available for iOS , since everything is enclosed within the <URL> framework ( no way to access <URL> data ) . You can monitor some variables ( like <URL> , <URL> ) but that 's it . The easyest way to obtain this information is to run some GPS application , that gives this information , for example <URL> .
I found an app ( paid ) that will do the above : <URL> . Disclaimer : I have n't tried it yet .
Did n't intend to answer my own question , but I found <URL> : Apple Inc. ( AAPL ) is weighing an expansion of its AirPlay audio service to include streaming video from an iPhone or iPad to television sets , according to two people familiar with the project . Under the plan , Apple would license its AirPlay software to consumer-electronics makers that could use it in devices for streaming movies , TV shows and other video content , said the people , who asked to remain anonymous because the plans have n't been made public . Apple now only licenses AirPlay for streaming audio . Devices that could be used for video may be available this year , one of the people said . So apparently the answer is " not yet , but maybe in the future . "
You can do it with some AppleScript . This will create a new desktop every time you run it : You can save this as a Universal Service you can assign a globally-available shortcut key combination to call it . <URL> .
I was having the same issue and here 's what just worked for me : Hold command , then drag it off the Favorites bar . The item will turn into a little " poof " white cloud and when you release , it 'll go away ! Finally !
To enter or exit Fullscreenmode of your VM you can press [ Command ] + [ Control ] + [ F ] .
I myself Always used TextEdit for this job , open TextEdit and save blank page with desire extension in desire location . Also you can use <URL> ( I did n't test myself ) Or use some <URL> .
To strictly answer your question , it is not possible to delete something from your device and have it remain and accessible from iCloud Photo Library . Here 's more details : The idea behind iCloud Photos Library is to have all your photos on all your devices . Picture a parent of a small family in California who takes , on average , several photos a week and has a Mac , iPad , and iPhone . When they take a photo on their iPhone , it syncs to their other two devices automatically so that when they arrive home , they can open their computer and view the photos or videos they took . Pretty cool ? Yes , for some situations it 's ideal . But there 's a problem , if you do n't have enough storage on your phone to hold all of the photos , iCloud Library is stuck until you open settings and allow it to optimize your device storage . It then saves low resolution photos to your device and will download the high resolution version when you view the photo . This too is convenient in some situations . The problem comes in when you want to control what photos go where . I 've taken thousands of photos and videos on my iPhone and I do n't want all of those on my phone even if I could have that . But with iCloud Library enabled , all of your photos will be on your device as there is no way to control what images are in the cloud versus on your device . So , it seems that Apple 's solution to your problem of having too many photos and videos on your phone would be to enable the option to optimize device storage . However , here is , by far , the biggest problem with iCloud Photo Library and the " optimize device storage " option . If you enable that setting , and then go to disable it at some point , it will attempt to download the full resolution version of all your images ( not just the device-optimized high-resolution one ) . This makes sense , but causes a problem as your device likely would n't have near enough storage by then to handle that . Consequently , that 's probably not the approach you would want to take . To summarize : use iCloud Photo Library if you do n't take ( or keep ) a lot of photos and if you have more than one Apple device . Otherwise , it 's probably better to avoid it .
You can create many calendars in iCal , and sync only the ones you choose to other devices . So create a calendar to contain these alarms .
@Daniel 's answer lead me to a working solution , so I 'll post it up Using windows means that the apple script solution was n't going to work , and so using the iTunes.Application com object my solution looks something like this ( in Ruby , cause I like Ruby , though other scripting languages will work too ) . I create a playlist called ' All Podcasts ' and make it just that . I have to use played date as my proxy for release date , as that is the only editable date field on a track in the COM object version of itunes . Interestingly iTunes does not equate " has a played date " with " has a played count > 0 " so I can now have a playlist of podcasts that are unplayed , that meet whatever criteria I was using before , and that are selected by release date . Yay !
You can create folders for smart mailboxes , and collapse the folder so that it only takes up one line in your smart mailbox list no matter how many smart mailboxes it contains . Use the menu item Mailbox → New Smart Mailbox Folder ... , give the folder a name , and then drag your special smart mailboxes into the folder . Click the triangle to the left of the folder to collapse it . ( This answer has been written based on experience with Mail version 5.3 . I do not know if later versions have significant differences , but the option appears to be still present . )
Make a Time Machine backup from within the VM and use this to restore the native machine once you 've re-installed OS X there . . I do not know if all drivers are installed at all times ( does n't happen for Windows ) so I would be a bit wary of using cloned disks to do this . Much rather let Time Machine do what it is designed for .
Yes , it is possible using the following Terminal command : This adds a stack to the right end of the Dock ( before the Trash ) that lists your recently-used apps . Upon right-clicking on the stack , you can choose from multiple recents lists , and change the style of the list , as well as remove it from the Dock . Running the above command multiple times will add multiple stacks to the Dock , which you can customise individually .
The mechanism to force a full backup is n't well documented , but it does get logged to the console logs as Forcing deep traversal on source : " Macintosh HD " ... but even if this happens , the system will base the storage of new copies of files on what exists on the backup volume previously . I would add a new drive and back up to it once if you are concerned that your backup is no longer reliable . From the command line , you can then check on things with or by using a tool such as <URL> to convince yourself that specific ( or ongoing ) backups are correctly being made .
end question
start question
Can the iCloud share app-specific data across devices ?
The direct answer to your question is It depends . Certain applications like iWork can store data in the cloud which is then synchronized across devices . However there is currently no interface to allow you to choice which document is the primary , as the data is synchronize on a last updated cycle . If the game support using shared document via iCloud , you would be able to synchronize game data , however , by default it will not .
I save the document on my Mac or my iPad and then quit keynote . Then I open <URL> in Safari 9 on a computer ( most other newishly updated browsers work too ) If you do n't see the " coaching tips " - click the white ? in the white circle in the top right next to your name . Double click your keynote you want to share . ( It might take a while to load the first presentation - so be patient while it loads ) Now look in the " top bar " of the web browser window to the left of the ? are in order : your name , a wrench , and the share icon . <URL> Click the box with the up arrow Share away . This generates a URL you can copy to SMS/message/email / post as well as prompts you if you want read only or write access and lets you optionally set a password . You can also share from iOS keynote and Mac keynote , but the steps there depend more on the version you are running .
According to this detailed <URL> post the trick is to use Lion 10.7.2 and Safari 5.1.1 to force a flush of the Data . Simplified steps : Turn off bookmark sync on all devices except the Mac Backup current bookmarks on Mac Correct bookmarks on Safari on the Mac Move the new bookmarks out of you Safari Library folder Delete all bookmarks and wait for iCloud to update . Move the new bookmarks folder back and wait for iCloud to update Delete all bookmarks on iOS devices and re-enable sync . It 's laborious , but I am fairly certain Apple will release better tools for this process . Considering there normal rollout , they are probably handling these issues in phases . They introduced Photo Stream reset mid way in the Beta , so I am sure they will bring the rest through over time .
In iTunes , you can opt back out of sharing details by opening the preferences and selecting the store preferences tab .
iBooks , like all items bought in the iTunes store , can be shared across different iTunes libraries via <URL> . As Apple states : Home Sharing in iTunes is designed to let you easily share your iTunes media libraries between up to five computers in your household . All libraries setup for sharing with the same ID can import purchases made with that ID , independently of the ID they normally use for purchases in the iTunes store . See <URL> for details on requirements , setup procedure etc. .
To share your Mac internet connection with your iPad do the following ( <URL> ) On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Bluetooth > Turn Bluetooth On . Turn Bluetooth On on your iPad . Your iPad should show up as a new device in the Bluetooth preferences of your Mac . Click Pair . A six digit number will appear on your Mac . This same number should show up on your iPad . Confirm the connection by tapping " Pair " on your iPad . On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Sharing Click on " Internet Sharing " from the menu on the left . Do not check the box yet ! Select : Share your connection from " Wi-Fi " Check : To computers using " Bluetooth PAN " Check the " Internet Sharing " box from the menu on the left When asked if you 're sure you want to share your connection , select " Start " share mac internet with iPad At this point , you should be able to get online on your iPad . Obviously , for this to work , your Mac will have to be awake and connected to the internet .
rsync is a good way to go ( scp is pretty much the same with fewer features ) . You may want to use the option , which will enable zlib compression . Depending on how fast your drives/computer are , it may be faster than sending uncompressed , i.e. if your network link is saturated . You may also want the archive mode option , which will preserve symlinks , permissions , and creation/modification times , as well as copy directories recursively . Depending on what you 're copying you might want which preserves extended attributes and mac resource forks . Finally , will show you progress information .
No . This is n't a function of the iPhone OS from Apple . If this is n't a short term need , there might be a jailbreak tweak to turn the OS into a fully functioning router / hotspot , but the hardware is n't designed to extend a network as your use case requires .
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
In short , yes , it is quite possible for ransomware to encrypt the contents of your iCloud Drive . It is possible for the ransomware to encrypt the data of your iCloud Drive , and then your computer would sync the changes to Apple 's cloud , requiring decryption to access the data again . To answer your questions : Probably . The iCloud Drive folder is stored locally on your computer in . It would be getting backed up unless you have specifically told Time Machine to not back up this directory . No . Apple does not make backups of a user 's iCloud Drive accessible . It is unclear if Apple even keeps copies of user 's iCloud Drive , but they are most certainly not accessible to the users . Yes . If ransomware encrypts the files in the directory then the changes would be applied to your iCloud Drive , rendering the information useless without decrypting the data .
<URL> , ( scroll to the bottom of the page ) only the two most recent generations of each device can upgrade . So both iPads , the iPhone 4 and 3GS and the 3rd &amp; 4th generation iPod touch . One exception : The CDMA ( Verizon in the US ) iPhone 4 is staying on 4.2.6 for a while . It has some , but not all , features of iOS 4.3 . That leaves the first two generations of iPod touch and the original iPhone and iPhone 3G unable to use it . The 3G and second-generation iPod touch got stripped-down versions of 4.0-4 .2.1 . ( No multitasking , homescreen wallpapers , or printing . ) The other two devices left out ( 1st-gen iPod touch &amp; iPhone ) did n't even get 4.0 .
I 'll preface this with , I 'm not an IOS developer , but I 'm sure it works much the same was as Android and other GPS APIs . When an App calls the GPS APIs it 's calling an abstraction to the GPS/Location system and receives position information that the system presents . So in this case when one application asks the OS for Location data , the OS uses a mix of GPS and Wifi data to determine the location of the device . If at the same time another application requests location data , the phone would just use the location data that it has instead of having to turn on the radios again .
Create an Event , and then select " Repeat = > Every Day " and click " Done " - you 'll now see a new option below " Repeat " called " End Repeat " where you then choose e.g. a date 3 days from today .
Basically , an upgrade just makes a lot of the files that are included in a backup write a newer copy . There is n't any major change to the storage format and has n't been since Time Machine was implemented . All the changes have been in the code that runs the backup or changes to the rules about what files are excluded , but those changes revert when you install a clean OS before you go to restore files from any of the intervals stored in the backup . Time Machine backups are not bootable and they do n't include all files - so you might not even end up restoring the files that change when you go from one OS update to the next . Specifically - here are files that get excluded by rule : <URL> Time machine just backs up all files that are n't on a list to be skipped . It goes forward , time interval by time interval - writing any new files and updating any changed files . Assuming you are n't running low on space in the backup destination - you wo n't have any older files deleted from the backup and could restore files from before you made the upgrade .
If the application does n't provide a way to delete documents , uninstalling and reinstalling the app is definitively the best option here .
Both . Upload and download . Upload speed depends entirely on your networks limitations . Let 's take a scenario . You have an iPhone , an iPad , and a Mac . You enable all of iCloud 's features , including Photo Stream . You take a picture on your iPhone of your dog . As soon as that picture is saved to your camera roll and your phone is connected to wifi , it sends it to iCloud . When you access your iPad , the photo will be there waiting for you under the Photo Stream group . But that does n't mean it 's downloaded to the device just yet . You will first have to tap on the thumbnail to view it and at that time , it will be stored locally on the device . From that point , even if you remove the photo from Photo Stream , say using iCloud.com , it will still be stored on your iPad ( and any device that has downloaded the image ) . Because Photo Stream removes content that 's 30 days old , over time , it will be the case that photos may be stored on some devices , but not others . This applies to your Mac as well . Depending on whether you have enabled Photo Stream in the iCloud preference pane , you 'll also need to enable it in either iPhoto or Aperture to fully make use of the service . In the respective app 's preferences , you can tweak how it manages the service . Keep in mind this only works for pictures taken after you 've enabled the feature . So if you disable it and take a photo , that remains locally stored , never to be transferred to Photo Stream . Things like documents and calendars sync instantly . So if you make a change in Address Book on your Mac , the changes will be pushed to iCloud . Once you open the app on your iPad , for example , it will download the updates . It 's unclear at this time if Apple 's servers push the changes to devices connected to the Internet . Calendar too . iCloud will try to keep all your settings ubiquitous across all your devices so you do n't have to worry about syncing or manually transferring the new contacts you added on your iPad to your phone or Mac . It 's meant to be as seamless and unobtrusive as possible , and require as little user activity and management as possible . Now most people are still conceptualizing iCloud as a sync service , but it 's not . The master version of any file is kept on Apple 's servers , and then fed to any device that needs it ( read : any device that is deemed to either not have the file at all or simply lack the updated version ) . Most people think because you made changes to your calendar events on your Mac , that that data is held as the master and pushed through iCloud to your other devices ( this is traditional sync ) , but that 's not the case . It 's fed to iCloud yes , but it 's iCloud that takes it , holds onto it , and delivers it to any device that needs it ; your Mac is no longer involved once it sends the necessary information . It 's all iCloud from then on , and this is why you 'll be greeted with a notice when you disable the calendar feature on your Mac ( or any device ) that it will wipe all local content . Since iCloud holds the master files , any device that is detached from the " network " will have their data removed in kind ( some , like Address Book ) wo n't but the majority will have their local contents deleted . This serves to strengthen iCloud 's control ( or dominance in the network ) and denounces any device that is removed from its fold , so to speak . And if you think about iCloud as a true cloud service , this makes perfect sense , as you would n't typically be disconnecting devices unless they were no longer of use to you ( when say you upgrade your iPad 2 to the next generation , or when you buy a new Mac to replace your old one ) . While critical things will remain ( contacts ) , most files wo n't survive a disconnection from iCloud . As for storing backups of your applications , and other miscellany , that too replaces your local content . All your app settings , game saves , etc. become part of iCloud . And again , once they are there , your local data becomes just another extension of the service . You can view what it stores by going into Settings > General > Usage . It will show you a breakdown of your content ( and the respective amount of space it takes ) . iCloud is meant to replace local data and move everything into the cloud so you can access it from any device and a wireless connection . It de-regulates local data , so to speak , as a result . It 's a bit confusing at first , but once you understand the general principle , it becomes much clearer to understand as a whole .
Indeed , the screenshot does appear to have been edited . The correct way to select multiple photos is to press the Select button , then tap the pictures . As far as I know , it is impossible to select images without pressing the Select button , and pressing the button changes it to a Cancel button , and the navigation bar title changes to Select Items ( or the number of items selected ) , as well as removing the back navigation button . On the left : Apple 's screenshot ; On the right : how it should appear when selecting multiple pictures .
From my understanding , once you migrate to iCloud Drive , your old ' Documents &amp; Data ' storage is converted &amp; no longer exists in its old location . Mavericks/iOS 7 ca n't see iCloud Drive &amp; Yosemite/iOS 8 ca n't see the old Documents &amp; Data , migrated or not . Refs : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
My specific situation was that initially I tried a backup version that was too late to contain the app required . Once I switched to an earlier backup , the app was there and successfully restored with all its data .
The answer is yes and no . What happens quite easily after a restore ( for example after an update ) is that iTunes restores the save data for all applications , but not the applications themselves . Therefore as soon as you install them , the old save games will be available ( this applies to all apps , not just games ) . Just by itself nothing will be saved without backup . BUT : If the application supports iCloud sync and stores it 's data in iCloud ( which has to be explicitly supported ) , your data will be still available after deleting and reinstalling the app . In short : You should be really careful and unless you 're absolutely sure the application in question does support iCloud for your saved data , do n't delete it without backup .
end question
start question
Why do I not have sufficient permissions to restore my Library folder ?
Library like many of the folders that exist in the root of your home folder have special permissions . I have better luck selecting all inside the folder , trashing them , then restoring all in place . Working inside the folder is less error prone than trying to change the folder itself .
I think you can just right-click the file and select " Put Back "
This is intentional . Most websites are n't designed for retina displays and only have 1x assets . If these 1x assets were drawn at native resolution on a retina display , they would appear at one quarter the size ( half the height , half the width ) . That would obviously be impractical : it would be like browsing the web with your browser 's zoom level set to 25 % . To get around this , the browser simply draws everything at 2x ( retina ) by default and then upscales any 1x assets to match . This way , websites appear at the same physical size on a retina display as they do on a non-retina display .
To jailbreak with Absinthe they tell you to erase all data just because the software works faster , but you can do it with all your info . It will only take more time . I recommend you to use the last version of Absinthe . To remove jailbreak you have to restore your idevice . ( it will restore with the last iOS version at the moment ) .
Download <URL> and use its rebuild function . ( In Library Manager it 's the FIle - > Rebuild command ) This will create an entirely new library . It will then copy ( or try to ) your photos and all the associated metadata and versions to this new Library , and arrange it as close as it can to what you had in the damaged Library . It does this based on information it finds in the iPhoto sharing mechanism - but that means that things not shared wo n't be there , so no slideshows , books or calendars , for instance - but it should get all your events , albums and keywords , faces and places back . Because this process creates an entirely new library and leaves your old one untouched , it is non-destructive , and if you 're not happy with the results you can simply return to your old one .
If you look in your headphones jack , is there a red light on ? If yes , then you have Digital Out on , and this messes with the speaker configuration . There is a thread <URL> , which has some possible fixes . Update There is switch inside the jack that is stuck . Plug the speaker jack in and out several times while watching the Sound-output system preference panel . The internal speaker option will come on if the switch is unstuck . Taking a toothpick and fiddling around inside the jack has solved the problem for some , you should try this . ( Do n't break the toothpick inside :) ) From : <URL> The problem is actually caused by a little switch inside the jack that gets stuck . When you stick in an audio cable , it pushes the switch down . If it 's an analog cable , the end is made of metal . If it 's optical , the end is made of plastic . If the switch is pressed down , the computer checks to see if the plug inside is metal or plastic based on conductivity . When it gets stuck and nothing is in there , it thinks an optical cable is plugged in since the switch is down but nothing conductive is in there . That 's why it works with headphones or external analog speakers .
An application on a Mac is just a folder full of files with a . app extension . However , OS X hides this fact from you and displays the folder as a file with an icon . Now when you download something it 's very uncomfortable to download folders ( without a download manager ) . Therefore this " App Folder " has to be put inside a single file somehow . This can be done in three ways : Put in a zip file ( or comparable file format ) Put it in a dmg file ( which is kind of a flat file filesystem ) Make an installer ( which , however , also has to be either in a zip or dmg because those are folders to on a mac ) Since most apps are self-contained and do not need anything besides the App Folder , an installer is not only overkill but also slower than just distributing the app folder . You can obviously launch apps from wherever you want , it 's only a custom or a recommendation to put them into as it easier for you to find it again and it works with multiple users .
If you are familiar with terminal you can use the following command ; username : your username directory : the folder in which the files you want to copy are located PS Requires an administrator 's password
I 've not tried this myself but <URL> on ehow.com makes it look fairly simple using iTunes . Basically as long as the host computer is authorised for iTunes use , you can connect your old iPod , right click on the icon from within iTunes and select Transfer Purchases to get the apps onto iTunes . Then connect the target device and sync the applications to it .
Repairing permissions only affects System files , and files installed from a package with the Installer , which give a BOM ( Bill Of Materials , stored in the folder ) that list the expected permissions . There is no meaning in repairing permissions for " a specific directory " , as an arbitrary directory has no expected permissions against which to compare , unless it is one listed in one of the said files . ( just for sourcing : <URL> ;) ) If you want to change permissions of a lot of files at once , for example by having copied them from another drive with permissions , and you encounter problems with them , you could use a tool such as <URL> :)
You can hide it from from Finder by setting the hidden flag with Terminal and if you want to remove the flag
The only things you absolutely need that is n't already included are : The monitor that you have already identified . A keyboard ; a Mac specific one would make sense , but any PC USB keyboard will do you just need to be careful to use the right settings as the layout will be subtly different A pointing device of some sort . If you are coming from PCs , you may hate Apple mice ( I do ) , but again any PC mouse will work just fine . Having said that , the Magic Trackpad is fantastic . I use one on my iMac and do not use a mouse ever on a Mac any more . Things you do n't not need but are highly recommended would include : A backup drive ! Backup your stuff ! Make it big ( 2x your internal drive at least ) and make it fast ( USB 3 or Thunderbolt if you have too much money ) Things which you might fancy but are n't really needed : A headset/headphones of some sort ( iPhones headphones with the 3 pin jack work fine ) An external DVD reader/writer ( any brand , USB ) USB cup warmers ( any brand ) Novelty stickers ( any brand , except Microsoft Plays for sure ! and Windows license keys )
First of all iOS 6 and Mountain Lion have the ability to combine phone number and Apple ID to use iMessage , but it seems like you have n't activated it . Have it separated comes from older versions and also gives you kind of a fallback mode when there is no internet connection available . If you send an iMessage via Apple ID and your partner " on the other side of the conversation " had no connection , the message would not be send . Using the phone number you still have/had the ability to resend it as SMS . Now , if you want to combine your Apple ID and your phone number , open the prefs on your iOS device , go to the messages section , choose " send &amp; receive " and check both your Apple ID and the phone number . Also set the application to start all conversations from your phone number . Now , do the same on your Mac . Open the prefs in iMessage on the Mac , go to accounts , choose your iMessage account and check both , your phone number and your Apple ID . Set the application to start new conversations from the phone number . Now , your streams should be combined from now on ( old conversation will stay separated ) . Of course in case of connection problems sending a SMS from the Mac is not possible within iMessages . To your question why you have different possibilities to send the message : Well , because he/she has different contacting possibilities ( and technologies - you can sent SMS to the number instead of an iMessage ) . But they also have the ability to combine their number and ID what should also give them one single stream .
<URL> and <URL> are your friends . A <URL> is due to bad memory management of the application . Basically , it allocates memory but fails to release it when finished . Therefore , as the application continues to run , it keeps allocating free memory until there is no more . The fact that certain browsers use more or less memory has nothing to do with there being a memory leak . Chrome likes to have individual processes for each tab or session ( more memory ) where Firefox does the opposite . Memory is cheap now so there is less of a need to be efficient , but there is a need for higher performance . The real issue is what to do about memory leaks - since most people do n't reprogram and self-patch a program like FireFox - you can quit a program that has leaks or just log out . Mac OS ( as well as most other operating systems ) then release all the leaked memory and return it to the system pool . Leaks happen , so as an educated user you can watch for them and tend to leaky programs as opposed to letting them run continually .
Go to Settings Reset Reset All Settings and the process will start over . You 're not losing content this way , because that 's the 2nd option on that page .
Us Mac users ask the same question the other way : Why do you need an ( un ) installer for everything in Windows ? The majority of Mac programs are complete bundles - all their resources are in the Application 's folder ( right click on App icon - > Show Package Contents ) . So they will run from anywhere , there 's a system variable that tells the code where it is . Often , an application can be run directly from the downloaded DMG and even from a remote server . Bit of a performance hit but it will work . User settings are in the user 's library , there are also system routines to handle the mechanics . Macs have no central registry that requires setup ( or maintenance ) so nothing needs to go there either . If you are developing Mac applications you should try very hard to not need an installer - only if you are installing shared libraries or shell-level services . In general , it 's possible to do without . Since you are heading towards iOS programming I would suggest just not worrying about it . iOS rules will tell you where to save what , and it is NOT negotiable . Preferences go here , user data goes there . You will use the supplied APIs . Comply . Obey .
With iOS 7 You can not untrust with iOS 7 . Once you respond with " Trust " , you can not change it . If it 's not prompting you now when you connect , it means you have chosen to trust it before . Snippet from the end of this Apple support article titled " <URL> " : Additional Information Note : If you select Trust , the computer will be trusted indefinitely . If you select Do n't Trust , you will be asked if you want to trust that computer each time you connect your device to that computer . Last Modified : Sep 18 , 2013 With iOS 8 With iOS 8 , Apple has provided ways to untrust all previously trusted computers ( there is no way to untrust computers selectively ) . Depending on how you do it , this will result in losing your location and privacy settings or losing your network settings or losing everything with the " erase device " option . The <URL> KB article referenced above has been updated as follows : If you tap Trust , the computer will be trusted until you untrust all computers or you erase the device . If you tap Do n't Trust , you 'll see this alert each time you connect your device to that computer . If you 're using iOS 8 or later : To untrust all computers , tap Settings > General > Reset > Reset Location &amp; Privacy . This will also reset your location and privacy settings . You can also untrust all computers by tapping Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings . This will also reset your network settings . Last Modified : Sep 17 , 2014
It depends on the cause of the yellowing . I personally have seen the following situations : Psycological yellow where any time you have a black border and a white area , the brain will color the white yellow . If you hide the black with a piece of white paper , the yellowness magically disappears . Permanent manufacturing problem where the LCD is pinched internally , damaged , or otherwise really emitting a permanent yellow cast as measured by a <URL> such as the <URL> . Temporary yellowness ( very rare - I 've just seen this a few times ) . I do n't know why or when it went away , but several people sure agreed that one phone was off until it was restored . I do n't know if it was some odd warmup temporary hardware issue , but after it was restored , it looked and tested fine with the Spyder . Do keep in mind , not all displays are made in the same batch , same factory and that combined with the backlight settings can make a pretty large difference between models . If it 's convenient to have it checked out , or you can take a picture of the colors and it 's totally obvious yours has some severe color tint , then take it in and ask for a repair . If not , you 'll likely need hours of time and expensive tools to even tell your phone is unique to another after using it to play games for a day or two . It will just be right and your brain will compensate for whatever calibration your phone has . A restore of the device is also a good thing to try so you do n't needlessly waste time going in for service since that is the most obvious cause of the LCD passing all inspections along manufacture but you having colors that seem off to your eye at the point of receiving a new phone out of the box .
It is a tiny bit ugly - but there are formal steps to accomplish exactly what you wish . Home Sharing does n't work so well when both accounts have completely separate libraries - each in the usual home folder - so that 's not a good thing to try . The best workaround is to agree to <URL> . It 's more work to add the same music to both libraries - but you both have totally independent backups , playlists , play counts , ratings and apps . This works really well and you can easily recombine later or split her or your account to another mac or PC any time you choose by taking a copy of the reference files as well as the library organization files .
Go to iTunes on a computer and select your Account ( on the right hand side of the window towards the top once you are signed in ) . Select Manage Devices under iTunes in the Cloud . All computers in this list count against the 5 total computer authorizations each Apple ID can have . <URL>
end question
start question
How to remove apps that are remembered by App Store ?
This will not be possible . You will see an cloud icon when you previously " purchased " an app . This will notify you that you could download the app withous any costs . It is not possible to delete those apps from your apple is . If you do n't want to see the cloud icon , you could sign out from the appstore via settings > iTunes &amp; App Store > sign out . This will hide the cloud icon but you have to log in each time you want to download an app .
Modifying the Info.plist of an app usually invalidates its code signature , so it 's not allowed to access the keychain automatically . You can see if the code signature is valid with for example . An invalid signature can be replaced with .
There is no default mac app store wish list , all though , there are some 3 party applications and websites that allow you do track apps prices and add them to a wishlist . One of them is : <URL> .
Apparently , Push Notifications Permission are reset if the devices are restored or the app is uninstalled for a day . Extracted from <URL> The first time a push-enabled app registers for push notifications , iOS asks the user if they wish to receive notifications for that app . Once the user has responded to this alert it is not presented again unless the device is restored or the app has been uninstalled for at least a day . Therefore , these preferences must be stored where iOS System Settings are stored .
there is a commandline app called that you have to run as root . for example will give you the list of apps that are set to update . You can then run This wo n't let you install a new application that you have n't already downloaded though .
You can always use the annotation tools in Preview.app . These include the ability to add text boxes which can be positioned above the screenshots or other output image from a service such as the one you mentioned . Alternatively , you can use an app such as Pages to create the images by exporting the pages as an image file .
<URL> Touchpose is a very simple Cydia tweak that will show finger positions on screen . Requirements : firmware ( > = 4.0 ) , mobilesubstrate , libactivator , preferenceloader
I believe the files are stored in / Library/Server/ProfileManager / Data/FileStore but are not stored as IPA files .
Open Finder , select Go/Go to Folder ... ( ⇧ ⌘ G ) , paste in : Delete the apps from there . ( Note that ~ means your user folder , not the regular Applications folder . ) Finally , empty the trash to remove from launchpad . If you use Canary or any other type of Chrome build : it will have its own additional folder in .
I guess it 's mostly here for people on Leopard and older version of Mac OS X . Since the Mac App Store only works in Snow Leopard and later . It could also be for people who do n't want to depend on an internet connection when they need to ( re ) install , and want to have the app physically at all time .
Realistically , you need an Intel Mac , the cheapest possible one will do , and access to at least 1 to 3 iOS devices . One device for the current OS release , one device running the OS release of the oldest OS you plan on supporting , and perhaps one dedicated test device for doing beta OS app testing . If you want to do Universal apps , at least 1 iPad and one non-iPad , as there are many things that ca n't be fully tested on the iOS Simulator . Going forward , a Mac that can run Lion may end up being required to keep up with the latest SDK frameworks , codesigning tools and app submission tools . You need to register any iOS devices that you want to use for app testing . They do n't need to belong to you or your company . Multiple developers can register the same shared devices . You do n't need to " register " any Macs . You do need to create and/or copy private keys and certificates to each Mac that you want to use for device testing development or app store submission . Unrealistically , you could get by with none . No devices or owned Macs are required . ( There are online tools that will pretty much construct an entire native app Xcode project . ) Have a friend or consultant with a Mac get your certificates and do the final codesigning ; and let your customers be your beta testers . But the latter could easily lead to apps that get rejected or that crash for most of your customers . And the non-Mac development tools all have various ( some severe ) deficiencies .
Icons are definitely not freely copy-able . Apps in the App Store still enjoy the copyright protections afforded under intellectual property laws in your region . If you 've found an app with icons that you 're smitten with try contacting the developer about it . Often developers will purchase icon sets from icon factories like iconarchive.com ( link omitted on purpose ) . These icon sets are licensed to you , for use in your applications , and come with the necessary license to allow you to redistribute and profit off any product that includes them . You can find free and paid-for icon sets out there . The developer might be forthcoming if they purchased their icons from a factory . If the developer has designed the icons on their own they may choose to license them to you or they may say no . In which case : respect their wishes or you may find yourself on the receiving end of a cease-and-desist letter that prevents you from selling or giving away your app to the masses .
Log in to <URL> Select My Apps Press the ' + ' button at the top left and choose " New App " ( for iOS ) or " New Mac App " ( for OS X )
Answering my own question . I enabled the debug menu and then selected Reset Application , restarted the App Store and now the Download button shows up again . To enable the debug menu , open Terminal and run
Unfortunately there is no easy one-click solution to downloading all your previously purchased apps . Best you can do is look through the list of purchased apps and re-buy them ( you will not be charged again ) .
This appears to be a recent change to how purchasing functions , added for increased security . <URL> In the past 24 hours , Apple appears to have started prompting iOS devices owners and those with Apple IDs within iTunes to make their accounts more secure , requiring them to pick three security questions and enter their answers when they download a new app . The company is also asking users to enter a backup email address , in order to better protect their device but also their account ( which is tied to Apple 's Retail website and all of its media services ) .
I tried uninstalling some applications , and files in these folders or the corresponding folders in were sometimes deleted and sometimes not : ( deleted for most applications ) Files in these folders were n't deleted for any of the applications I tested with : For example Kindle books or the database for notes in JustNotes were not deleted . You can see what files are accessed by uninstalld with and search for support files with . If you want to uninstall applications more completely , it 's probably safe to just delete the whole sandbox containers in .
Awesome , I figured it out . Run this command , which rebuilds LaunchServices : And everything should be back to good ! Immediately after running , the App Store allowed me to re-purchase the app . Source : <URL>
Here 's my copy , hope it helps . <URL> PS : I 'm going to remove it next week , so be quick !
This will not be possible . You will see an cloud icon when you previously " purchased " an app . This will notify you that you could download the app withous any costs . It is not possible to delete those apps from your apple is . If you do n't want to see the cloud icon , you could sign out from the appstore via settings > iTunes &amp; App Store > sign out . This will hide the cloud icon but you have to log in each time you want to download an app .
end question
start question
How can I retain volume settings upon plugging in different speakers/headphones ?
As far as I can tell , the Mac maintains two volume settings : one with headphones connected and another without headphones connected . If the volume is turned down with headphones connected , it should save that setting the next time headphones are connected . That said , if your concern is that the " blip " is too loud , it can be disabled in System Preferences ; under " , deselect .
Do you have an original ( aluminum backed ) iPhone ? If so then yes , unfortunately Apple recessed the headphone jack and you do need an extender . If you have an iPhone 3G , 3GS , or 4 , then you should n't need to , as the headphone jack is flush with the device .
To fix this problem , I got my iPad charger ( which was disconnected from any power source such as a wall outlet ) , and plugged it into my iPhone , and unplugged it twice . This process fixed the iPhone .
Start and stop times do sync , as well as volume adjustments . EQ settings sync as well . However , they only work under the following conditions : You used a preset in iTunes ( not custom EQ settings ) ; and You have EQ disabled on the phone . As backwards as that second one sounds , if you EQ enabled on the phone , it uses that EQ setting and overrides the per-song EQ settings . If you have EQ disabled on the phone , it uses the per-song EQ settings .
You can not change the underlying routing service with the default maps app for driving instructions , but what you can do is choose 3rd party applications for certain routing routing options , namely cycle routes , public transport options etc that are not provided by default within the app directly ( since the switch to Apple 's own mapping service ) . Following the steps from <URL> , the workflow seems to be Transit Maps in iOS allows you to choose your own third-party app from the App Store to provide transit information . To choose a transit option , tap . You can choose from the list of installed third-party transit apps , or you will be directed to download one from the App Store . This is a little misleading , as you actually need to select the Public Transport icon first , then try to route it first before it offers you a choice of what to use to route with . At this point it will offer you a list that shows currently installed options as well as choices from the App Store : You could also click on a dropped pin and choose Public Transport Directions underneath the directions to/from here text to get to the same screen . Once you select from one of your installed apps ( or go to the App Store , download one , then repeat the process when you have one installed ) , it should then switch to that app for routing . Note that it will switch to the 3rd party app and route using either Public Transport or whatever option the app provides ( for example Co-Rider does ; t offer Public Transport , only Cycle Routes , but it 's still accessed in the same way ) . By default driving and walking directions will always be provided in app using Apples own systems . If you want 3rd party driving directions then you will need to do a crafty workaround ; choose Public Transport then your 3rd party app that also supports driving instructions ( for example Google Maps and Waze in my screenshot - the types of routing options available are listed against each app ) , then switch back to driving options once you have the 3rd party app open with the start &amp; destination set . To use Google Maps as your example , it will open happily showing your transit options , and a single tap in the top left icon to switch to driving gets your end result via the back door .
Sadly , no . Your money or your time surely will soon be spent .
According to Apple , <URL> is simplified application . It only lets you choose the printer and the number of copies , but not print quality etc. . in other words it use the current Printer defaults . So what can you do ? Log in to the printer 's set up page IP address that you need to know it first , but it is something like ( 192.168 . xxx ) and change it there . However , this solution will affect all following documents until you change it again .
Here is the visual comparison of Apple TRRS plug and a standard TRS plug . On the top you can see a 4-pin headset connector . A headset connector needs to be using the same TRRS standard , or it will not function properly if at all . On the bottom you can see a 3-pin headphone connector . Any headphone connector will work fine . Standard 3.5 mm jack stereo headphones have a 3-conductor configuration of TRS ( Tip , Ring , Sleeve ) . The pinout for these connectiors is : Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground . Connectors for headphones with a mic have an additional ring which results in a 4-conductor TRRS configuration ( Tip , Ring , Ring , Sleeve ) . There have been different TRRS standards : The original OMTP configuration , which was created by Nokia and has a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Mic , Ground . AHJ ( American Headset Jack ) with a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground , Mic . CTIA , named after <URL> , which replaced AHJ and has the same pinout . CTIA jacks have improved compatibility to support not only AHJ but also OMTP . CTIA is by default <URL> device manufacturers . Source : <URL> Wikipedia has a short <URL> for which device uses which standard . At last a few points to note : Plugging an OMTP headset into an AHJ jack , and vice versa , will result in the audio-out being inaudible or very quiet . Converters to switch between the two types of headsets are readily <URL> , but do add extra bulk , and may not work reliably with remote control functionality . Apple uses a CTIA/AHJ connector arrangement , but uses a non-standard microphone and volume control signaling method . Simple commands like Play/Pause and Skip however should work across modern mobile devices .
The cones in almost any speaker will break down over time . Various environmental factors will determine how long a speaker lasts , but overdriving the element can definitely have an adverse effect . It 's impossible to provide any precise data but in short , you 're probably shortening the life of the speakers ( by an indeterminate amount of time ) by running them at maximum volume but , provided you 're not hearing any distortion from the speakers , you 're not damaging them by doing so .
If you look in your headphones jack , is there a red light on ? If yes , then you have Digital Out on , and this messes with the speaker configuration . There is a thread <URL> , which has some possible fixes . Update There is switch inside the jack that is stuck . Plug the speaker jack in and out several times while watching the Sound-output system preference panel . The internal speaker option will come on if the switch is unstuck . Taking a toothpick and fiddling around inside the jack has solved the problem for some , you should try this . ( Do n't break the toothpick inside :) ) From : <URL> The problem is actually caused by a little switch inside the jack that gets stuck . When you stick in an audio cable , it pushes the switch down . If it 's an analog cable , the end is made of metal . If it 's optical , the end is made of plastic . If the switch is pressed down , the computer checks to see if the plug inside is metal or plastic based on conductivity . When it gets stuck and nothing is in there , it thinks an optical cable is plugged in since the switch is down but nothing conductive is in there . That 's why it works with headphones or external analog speakers .
Your ringer volume adjusts the volume of the sound coming out of the phone when it 's ringing . If the phone is not playing media ( i.e. no sound is coming out of it ) then the volume buttons on the side adjust the ringer volume . If you are playing media ( music , video , etc ) out the internal speakers , then the buttons on the side adjust the volume of that media coming out those speakers . Finally , when you have headphones plugged in , the iPhone knows this and has a separate volume for headphones . Using the volume buttons will adjust the headphones volume when headphones are plugged in . The reason why these are separate is because sometimes you want to mute your ringer , but still want to listen to media ( or vice versa ) , and because the headphone and internal speaker volumes are different and need to be adjusted separately .
If you dropped your computer and it stopped booting right after that , you may now have a defective hard drive . I do not recommend attempting to re-install the operating system ( Mountain Lion ) , as this may cause data loss . My current recommendation is to confirm that you have a good backup of the data that is on your computer . If you do not have a backup , it may be necessary to attempt data recovery from the drive that is in the machine . If you do have a current/valid backup of your data , I would recommend attempting to boot from another disk ( CD/DVD , USB flash drive , etc. ) , and attempting to open Disk Utility to see if the software is reporting SMART failures with the drive . Alternately , very poor performance or clicking sounds while attempting to view/access the drive may be indicative of a defective drive . Regardless , at this point , a system re-install is not likely to help with your issues ( based on the problem description ) . If you are at all concerned about data loss , or are hesitant to attempt diagnosis/troubleshooting of your machine , I would recommend taking the machine into an <URL> for further assistance .
According to @ <URL> hint I find what was my problem I must un check Full-screen mode in X11 Preferences .
Skype has a preference called " Pause iTunes during calls " , enabled by default . In " Telephone " it 's called " Pause iTunes during call " and iChat pauses iTunes automatically , without any preference . There is no system-wide setting however , but there are not many phone apps remaining than those as well .
Try to to go and search for . It 's the file that gets updated when you modify the display in ( I just tried ) . According to <URL> , it 's safe to delete it . So move it on your desktop and try to reboot .
No the parts are not compatible nor are the cabling and mount points . See <URL> for take apart manuals and possibly repair parts for your broken LCD on the MacBook Pro .
1 ) Auto-login That one is tricky . The default is saved in But in order to turn it on or off , you need to do it as root . Set it : Delete it ( turn it off ) : 2 ) Showing password after screensaver and sleep mode I 've been trying to get that one to work , and I ca n't You will see a lot of hints telling you that the answer is or variations like and that should work , because if you turn it off via System Preferences , you will see : and then if you turn it back on via System Preferences , you will see BUT if turn it OFF and the quit System Preferences and change the setting using ' defaults write ' , when I re-launch System Preferences , it does not reflect that change . I 'd really like to know the answer to that one ( preferably without osascript , but if there is no other way , I 'll accept it ) . 3 ) Go to sleep mode after x minutes Assuming you mean " have the computer go to sleep after x minutes " you want : You can also use different settings specifically for when you are on battery ( for MacBooks ) : If you want to specify never sleeping when plugged in , use 4 ) Enable screensaver after x minutes @Daniel 's recommendation worked for me : You can use ' sudo pmset displaysleep X ' to have the display sleep instead of using the screensaver .
Two things happen : Time Machine sees if the format is acceptable and makes a change to enforce enhanced security on that drive if needed . Time Machine makes a folder named Backups.backupdb if needed and makes a folder for each machine that uses that drive . Assuming you do n't have a Backups.backupdb folder - then everything on the drive wo n't be touched by Time Machine . If the drive is n't in a mac format , you may be asked to erase the drive and reformat it . Do use care and read any messages carefully before you start that first backup . Full details on this is at <URL> - look for the section titled Changing your backup disk about a quarter of the way down for the restrictions on which format drives are supported and which need to be erased .
Have a look at the <URL> command in the AppleScript Language Guide <URL> . activate Brings an application to the front , and opens it if it is on the local computer and not already running . I 'd add after the start of the handler .
You do n't need 3rd party software . The OS X utility pmset allows you to schedule sleep/wake taking day of week into effect . I have n't tested it , but it appears you can not schedule multiple repeating events on different times . You 'll need to use cron to complete this task . from man pmset
end question
start question
Can I record a phone call on an iPhone ?
Beware of legal issues . You can but you 'll need to jailbreak , use extra hardware ( plug a mic into the headphone jack ) , or use 3rd party SIP software . For example , Google Voice has an iPhone app , and Google Voice supports call recording . Google Voice does announce to both parties that it is recording the call .
I think I psoted the question a little too ealry . Anywyas here is exactly what I was looking for : Settings >> General >> Accessibility >> Guided Acess >> Turn the guided access on and also enable the sleep/wake button . You could put in a password now or later ( when you turn it on using the triple trigger and start guided access it will prompt you for a passcode ) Enjoy !
Usually iMessage is tied to the email associated with iCloud . If the person is using iMessage on their new number they would have logged in with their email address and hence receive the message .
Yes , it is possible . Numbers can be entered using the keyboard . The correct tones will be produced and transmitted on your Yosemite Mac .
<URL> and <URL> are both application suites for recording audio from any input , include the system audio . They 're not fee , but their trials might suffice . A simpler solution would be <URL> which acts like an output to which system audio can be sent , then used as an input source in any audio recording program , even quicktime . If you want to be able to hear sound from your speakers/headphones , you 'll need to run the sound flower bed app , which takes sound flower 's audio coming in from your system , and forwards it to your speakers/headphones while still being able to use it .
Go to settings > phone First line is My Number
Apparently Apple quietly added the ability to mark calendar events as private in iOS 8 . At the bottom of the event details there is the option to toggle an event as . Setting this toggle works with Exchange . See screenshots below : <URL> <URL>
Easy Peasy . System Preferences > Notifications > FaceTime > uncheck ' Play sound for notifications ' Alternatively , you could just turn on ' Do Not Disturb ' from the Today/Notifications widget easily when you need it by clicking on the notifications button in the menu bar and scrolling up the ' Do Not Disturb ' setting will scroll into view
You will find an up to date list of carriers and frequencies on <URL> . For other countries see <URL> . You can use your iPhones as follows ( <URL> ) : iPhone Quad band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) iPhone 3G In addition to previous : Tri-band 3.6 Mbit/s UMTS/HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) iPhone 3GS In addition to previous : 7.2 Mbit/s HSDPA iPhone 4 quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 800 850 900 1800 1900 MHz ) . Quad-band UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 800 850 900 1900 2100 MHz ) ( 800 MHz not yet officially supported by Apple ) iPhone 4S quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 800 850 900 1800 1900 MHz ) Quad-band UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 800 850 900 1900 2100 MHz ) ( 800 MHz unannounced ) This means you can use your iPhones on any carrier on the 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz frequencies as a GSM phone , and access to data at the slow GPRS/EDGE speed . For higher speed access you will have to look for carriers who provide the right technologies at the right frequencies . This mean the iPhone will not work on networks operating in the 1700 MHz frequencies and it will not work on 1800MHz 3G ( UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ) networks as it only can use this band for GSM .
Photo Stream and iCloud Backup are separate -- your photos are stored in your iCloud Backup and many of them are duplicated and stored in Photo Stream ( unless you deleted them from your camera roll in which case they 're not duplicates ) . The iCloud backup can be restored whole to your device . You ca n't restore parts of it -- it 's all or nothing . However , there is a workaround : Make a backup of your new device to iTunes . Reset your device to factory settings and restore the iCloud backup . Use Image Capture or iPhoto/Aperture to import the photos . Reset your device to factory settings and restore the iTunes backup . Copy the photos back to your device .
Mobile safari does not have that feature and the application sandbox means you likely wo n't get at that data from another app running on the device without jailbreaking . Many tools can export the browsing history to your computer - the trial version of <URL> might be good to start and see if that meets your needs . History files in particular are stored as . webloc files .
I will answer my question myself . This is easy to have a try . You can send an receive iMessage when you are online . To send a message , you only need to set the receiving address an , or some phone numbers related to the ID . Of course , you network must be well enough to connect to .
it 's a bug they introduced in iOS6 . drives my crazy . Hope they fix it soon . No easy way to tell Apple they have a bug , unless you sign up to their developers program
There is an app called AutoAnswer , but it only works on jailbroken phones . If you 're into that sort of thing , you can find an article on it here : <URL>
Update : I have discussed this with someone who has specifically tried this . I now understand what happens here . The answer is no , with one notable exception . Having looked through Apple 's documentation , I have found conflicting information . First , the <URL> describes going into Device Firmware Upgrade ( DFU ) mode and Recovery mode . It states that from either mode , the device must be restored to factory default settings . However , that is in direct conflict with the link it provides to recovery mode . The <URL> puts you on <URL> . On this page it states that if you choose the Update option , iTunes will try to reinstall iOS without erasing your data . I now know this line to be a simplification . In this scenario , when iTunes reinstalls iOS , it 's only option is to restore the iPhone to factory default settings . If you have logged into your phone but have n't rebooted it , and you have previously synced it via iTunes , you can backup the contents using the same computer . So in this case iTunes will backup the contents , reinstall iOS with a restore to factory default settings , then restore the contents from the backup . Once the iPhone is rebooted , you can only restore to factory default settings . You can restore the contents of a previously made backup , but you can not backup the data from the phone .
According to this <URL> , the problem is n't just the size . It turns out , as well as a smaller size , the Nano SIM is reportedly 15 % thinner than the Micro SIM cards . So even if users cut the Micro SIM to Nano SIm size with a knife or nano SIM cutter tool , the Sim card would still be too thick to put in the iPhone 5 .
It proved trivial : power down iPhone change SIM card turn iPhone on launch Whatsapp Whatsapp asks something like " Mobile network changed . Switch to new phone number ? " . Tap " No " That 's it . All groups , chat history and contacts preserved . My friends see me ( and chat history with me ) as I never changed SIM card or number . Later switch back to the original number works exactly the same . Mind the <URL> from Whatsapp FAQ : " Please do not swap SIM cards ... frequently , or you will create problems in the verification process . " But with two changes " to new and back to the old " in half an hour , I of course did n't experience any problems .
No , this does not work . I started a background recording with DropVox , then switched over to PlainText and tapped the dictation button and dictated a sentence . I then switched back to DropVox and it looked like it was still recording ( the counter was still going up ) . I stopped it , it uploaded the file , but when I listened to it the start and end were there , but the part from when I started dictating to when I opened DropVox back up was n't . Very strange , but ultimately the answer is it does n't work . If you 're curious , the resultant audio file can be found <URL> . " And it looks like the timer 's still going " was said after DropVox opened back up .
Requirements iPhone / iPad running iOS8 Mac running OS X 10.10 Yosemite How to Record iPhone/iPad Screen on OS X Yosemite Connect the iPhone/iPad to Mac via USB Open the QuickTime Player on the Mac Select Quicktime will default select iSight camera , click on the arrow alongside the record button to select the iPhone/iPad . Click on the record button to record the iPhone/iPad Screen
How does an iPhone send iMessages to iPad : Make sure iMessage is set " on " on both devices On your iPhone , go to Contacts and find your friend 's name to check whether or not you have his email address . If not , you need to add his email address . On the iPad , go to settings >> messages >> recieve at >> add email . Put your friend 's email address from step 2 . It will say " verify " . Your friend need to verify by checking his email . There 'll be an email from Apple . Open the email and he 'll be asked to click on the verify link . Click on it and he 'll be directed to Apple 's homepage . Just follow the instructions there . Once your friend has verified his email address , the word " verify " in step 3 disappears . Now you can iMessage him . On your iPhone , go to contacts and choose your friend 's name . Click on " send message " and choose the email address that was just verified . You 're now directed to the message screen . In the " To " field , you 'll see that the email adress is missing " @ " . Ignore it . Make sure that the send button is blue . Now just type your message and send . Hope this works !
end question
start question
How can I create an alias for Finder in OS X El Capitan ?
Run the following command in Terminal ( it will create a symbolic link for all users ) : Or just for currently logged on user : Finder will appear in the applications list opened with Launchpad .
I found the answer in this <URL> post Create the AppleScript : Save in / Users/YourUserName/Documents / Microsoft User Data/Word Script Menu Items as Paste unformatted \ mosV.scpt ( the backslashed bit at the end of the filename provides the shortcut ) . Restart Word and you can now paste without importing extraneous styles with Apple-Alt-Shift-V .
A few searches tell me that there is n't good SSD support for power pc macs . This seems to be mostly a SATA III compatibility issue . TRIM support seems to have been introduced in 10.6.8 but only for Apple-supplied drives . Since Apple was producing Intel-based systems by that point , that is where they focused the support . There are blog posts where people have talked about specific drives working in G5 and G4 macs but this is notably without TRIM . OWC has some posts about TRIM and how it is n't for everyone . The important question is , why do you need TRIM ?
<URL> is close ( but not free ) alternative to TortoiseGit that works for mac . It does displays badges directly in Finder . And it has right-click git menu for operations on repositories . Free version is limited to one folder .
<URL> used to be the go-to tool for this kind of task , but it can not handle Core Storage volumes , which makes it a bit limited these days . Paragon have just brought out a new <URL> which I have yet to try out for myself , but looks like it 's the long-awaited successor to iPartition . Personally , I do n't think the interface looks as good , but you ca n't have everything ;-) Both apps require you to boot from an external device to work on the boot drive , of course . Paragon has a built-in boot drive creator , I ca n't remember whether iPartition does [ it had a CD maker , back in the day , but I 've not used it in quite a while ] For your particular scenario - I 'd clone off one of the Mac partitions , re-partition as a single Mac volume [ plus EFI/Recovery of course ] then let Bootcamp do its regular setup . Afterwards , resize then add a new partition to clone your 2nd OS X back to .
OpenConnect works great on El Capitan . I use the text commands to connect to my work VPN . There 's a Gist with a walkthrough of setup instructions using the Homebrew installer : <URL> On El Capitan , the " rootless " protection prevents you from installing the unauthorized " tun tap " kernel driver extension that OpenConnect needs . However , a Mac app called Viscosity comes with a signed ( authorized ) copy of tun tap . Viscosity has a limited trial , but the driver is free . <URL> Install Viscosity and run the app once to get the helper ( driver ) installed . Then use OpenConnect .
Mail.app > Preferences > Viewing > uncheck " Load remote content in messages " You will then have this banner at the top of each message that contains remote content ( just in case you do want to see the images ) : Aside : I still see the occasional image in a message when looking through my spam folder . As best I can tell when I " view raw source " the spammers are including the image in the message text itself ( there is a large block of text that looks like gibberish to me ) , but I 'm not an expert on what is going on there . It might just be a bug in this feature .
Building off of cksum 's answer , if you can get ahold of the mask , overlay and shadow images at high enough resolution ( images are still only about 140px square , ) and you 're comfortable with the command line/shell scripting , you can use ImageMagick , a nice command line image processor , to actually mask and compose the icon . Once you 've installed ImageMagick , ( http://www.imagemagick.org ) [ They have installation instructions <URL> ] you should be able to process your image with the mask , overlay and shadow : This assumes that Your_Image is large and square ( 1024x1024 ) and that the mask.png , overlay.png and shadow.png are the same size . Ideally , you would n't just resample the largest icon down to get the smaller versions , but you could instead use normal icon making software ( e.g. IconBuilder ) and use it to make YourImage at each size , then do the above to each one individually . As for getting the mask , overlay and shadow images to the correct size , my best recommendation would be to enlarge them and then build them back ( i.e. drawing a new roundrect and gradients ) at full resolution with Photoshop or GIMP . Once you have the image at each resolution , you can throw it into Apples own Icon Composer ( in the iOS/Mac SDK ) to create the . icns It 's not the easiest solution , but it provides you the flexibility of specifying the exact mask and other effects and of the command line .
It appears Spotlight does not make use of <URL> . Extra menu items added by Skype also fail to appear in the Spotlight preview . It is worth providing <URL> asking for this functionality to be added . It would greatly improve Spotlight . Context Menu in Contacts.app : Context Menu of Contact in Spotlight :
Updated at May 2015 , with current solutions . Free solutions <URL> - Successor to MacFUSE <URL> Last updated 2010 , pretty much abandoned in favour of the Paid version , Tuxera , unless you want to build from source . Last version linked from <URL> Paid solutions <URL> <URL> MacFuse is abandonware , and has n't been updated since 2009 .
Your allocated video memory depends on what you are going to be doing with your VM . For instance , I use 8MB for my headless FreeBSD machines and 256MB for my Windows 10 VMs . Windows Servers 2008 or 2012 get anywhere from 16 to 128MB of RAM depending on what they are used for . However , if you set it to 256MB ( max for one monitor ) you should have ample memory to run El Capitan . I do recommend maxing out the memory in your iMac , however ( 32GB RAM ) . That has made all the difference for me .
You should be able to do this using shared libraries , which would probably be the easiest way and not cause any problems with permissions or anything like that , however it would probably end up with number of separate libraries rather than just having a one large library . UPDATE : Having had a bit of a look into the shared libraries feature it could be a decent option if combined with iTunes DJ - which can be turned on in preferences if currently off . Essentially you would require everyone to turn sharing on for their iTunes library ( or specific playlists ) then have one of your computers acting as a master which has iTunes DJ setup . You can then add tracks from any of the libraries and have requests and votes for next tracks sent via the Remote app for iPhone or just shouted across the office . May still not be quite what you 're after , but essentially uses features already available in iTunes rather than a 3rd Party app to do it for you . -- You could try having one folder for music and all linking to it , but you may hit permission issues or DRM or something silly like that . <URL> This tells you how to move the library to a shared folder for one computer to allow multiple users to connect to it , the actual library is still per user , so you may get duplicate files or have to update the library if new files are added . In theory this would allow multiple computers to connect to one collection of music , add to it and play the files others have added . Though my theory is untested and may be flawed ( like all good theories ) . On a different note : I was able to have one library ( so viewing the same apps , podcasts , music etc. without the need to update it each time you logged in or downloaded new stuff ) for multiple users on one computer by copying the whole iTunes folder to the shared folder and then adding an alias to the shared iTunes folder in the Music folder for each users Home folder - which is a bit of a convoluted sentence - which may be of some help , but probably not as the library gets locked when it 's accessed by a user , so i ca n't imagine it 'd help for multiple computers . Just another way of doing things . Hope that helps in some way , let me know id it 's absolute guff though .
The OS X equivalent of Windows Task Manager is Activity Monitor , located in / Applications/Utilities / , or type Activity Monitor in Spotlight . See Activity Monitor 's internal Help : Activity Monitor > Help > Activity Monitor Help For more information see Apple 's Support Document : <URL> Also , as mentioned by klanomath , for more specialized scenarios there is Instruments in Xcode . ( Xcode > Developer Tools > Instruments ) Help for the Command Line version of Instruments , in a Terminal type : Or see Apple 's <URL> .
OSX contains an unarchiver so you do n't need the equivalent of a . exe so you can extract on any machine and not be stuck as you are on a Mac when you receive a Windows self-extracting archive To archive select the files in Finder . Command-click or right-click and choose compress from the menu - you will get Archive.zip . To unzip just double click on the . zip file The tool that does the unarchiving is Archive Utility.app and understands various compression schemes <URL> including bzip2 which can be better than zip - but you need to compress using a command line tool bzip2
You can also set a shortcut of your choosing by adjusting Lion 's built-in keyboard preferences . If you go to System Preferences -- > Keyboard , one of the settings menus on the left side bar is for Launchpad &amp; Dock . Make sure the check box next to ' Show Launchpad ' is selected , then double click to the right under the listed shortcut to turn dock hiding on/off . You 'll see a data entry box selected , and you can then enter whatever shortcut you 'd like .
The default shortcut for showing the Desktop is : ⌘ Cmd-F3 Technically , the official name is ⌘ Cmd-Mission Control but unless you know what " Mission Control " is , you would end up searching for that as well . <URL> Apple has a really good <URL> - I keep this bookmarked for quick reference .
Apple wants you to buy the <URL> in order to upgrade from Mac OS X Tiger 10.4 to Snow Leopard . Technically , you the <URL> retail package will upgrade intel based Macs running Mac OS X Tiger 10.4 , however it is against the terms of the End User License Agreement ( EULA ) . The <URL> includes additional software that typically comes with a new Mac ( and some that does n't ) and it is recommended by Apple to ' upgrade your Mac experience ' because it is more like buying a new Mac than just upgrading the operating system . To hear it straight from Apple , here are the answers from Alan Eyzaguire , director of software product marketing at Apple Europe to this question . " We just think that Apple customers could really benefit from having those . They 're great software . " " it 's great when people get the full experience " " if you have Snow Leopard it 's great to have the latest iWork and iLife " " we wanted to make that [ upgrade ] as attractive as possible " " you get it almost for free " " it 's a steal ! " " Technically , yes , it would upgrade a Tiger install , but in the licensing , no . " ( <URL> )
System Integrity Protection in 10.11 can be disabled , though it 's not something you should do lightly . You can disable SIP entirely by doing the following : Reboot your mac Hold ⌘ R during reboot From the Utilities menu , run Terminal Enter the following command Alternatively you can re-enable SIP while still allowing to work by also running the following : Note , that when doing so you 'll get the following warning : This is an unsupported configuration , likely to break in the future and leave your machine in an unknown state . Once you reboot , will work as it did in Yosemite .
They are System fonts &amp; not available ( or indeed licensed ) for documents that you make or App use in general . As mentioned in comments , even the <URL> of the fonts is only licensed for interface mockups &amp; no other purpose . The previous system font , Helvetica Neue , on the other hand , was released as both a System &amp; User font . There are various opinions online about how to make the San Fransisco fonts available to the user , but seem to depend on unpacking the individual ttfs , changing the ' system font ' attribute , then repacking them again - something I 'll leave to someone else , regardless of the licensing or legal position of doing that .
You can hide the tab bar by going to View → Hide Tab Bar .
end question
start question
Why is the " Word of the Day " screensaver giving me false information ?
According to <URL> it is supposed to open the " Dictionary " app . However , according to that discussion does n't seem to work if the screensaver is set to require a password . I have not tried on MacOS X 10.8 , but on 10.9 it is no longer possible to disable the password of the screensaver and only set the time after which the screensaver activates . So it seems that it is no longer supposed to work and it is a sentence they forgot .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts and there will be various shortuc setups for almost anything . If you see something that is not listed , Make a service in Automator and add it as shortcut : Here you see the service in Automator . It ai n't always have to be an AppleScript . You can chose other services from the Menu on the left . And here is a screenshot of enabling the service and assigning a shortcut by double clicking the shortucts on right , and pressing a combination of keys . <URL> is a full tutorial on services and automation as a little bonus to the question .
It likely was screensaver 's fault : I was using " Word of the day " , it has n't happened any more since I 've switched to " Classic " .
A coworker pointed out an inconsistency with my email account and that led to the resolution of the issue . On our corporate server , there is a main email address and you could also make any number of aliases . So for instance , my email address is frankrizzo@mycompany.com . But if you send me an email to frank.rizzo@mycompany.com or frank+rizzo@mycompany.com, it will reach me as well . In the iPhone , I entered my account as frank.rizzo@mycompany.com ( with the dot ) . However , people kept sending emails to my main account - frankrizzo@mycompany.com - without the dot . The iPhone saw the one without the dot as not mine and thus was including it on the Reply All screen .
The screensaver for the login screen is the one set for the root ( i.e. system ) user account . To launch System Preferences as root , use sudo ; a Terminal window run : Then you can change the screensaver settings as you normally would . Note that in order to use sudo , you needs to be an admin user .
Times have changed since this question was asked . CloudOn has been bought and shut down by DropBox . Currently , the best way to edit Word documents on iOS is with the <URL> app .
Because it was Apple 's way of making fun of Windows . No reason other than that .
No , Xcode 6 on the Mac App Store will replace the existing Xcode installation . Only the Xcode betas install separately ( by default ) and only downloading Xcode from developer.apple.com and doing the install manually ( by copying Xcode from the DMG to / Applications ) will prompt you to replace or keep both .
This is probably because some other users of files require complete lines e.g. C code will complain if there is no newline at the end of file - see <URL> and one main use of Bbedit etc is programming So the reason is not really specific to the Apple editors mentioned but more for what use the files is made of . Also see the comment to that question Not really the reason , but it 's very annoying if you cat a file and it does not have a trailing newline as the new shell prompt will appear after the last line of the file ( i.e. not in column 0 )
This has been covered in a <URL> . I encourage you to watch the video , but I 'll summarize here . First , create a little AppleScript that presses the two keyboard shortcuts . Open AppleScript Editor ( in / Applications/Utilities ) and paste this in : Save that as a script in ~ / Library/Scripts ( create the folder if it does n't already exist ) . Now , install the app <URL> . It 's free for up to 10 scripts . Open the FastScripts preferences , find your Select Word script , and assign a keyboard shortcut to it . Now you can press your chosen shortcut in any app and the current word will be selected .
The same things happens to me . After some digging around I found this <URL> : Important : You can not download a document from icloud.com to your Mac or Windows computer until the document has been opened on an iOS device . My guess is that this is a symptom of iCloud 's " work in progress " status , and that this functionality will eventually be there . Considering that you are only asking to download the exact same file that you uploaded , though , it is a pretty silly restriction . Update : For me , the behavior has recently changed . Now if you upload a file from your computer to icloud.com , you can download the original file to any computer from icloud.com . You still must download the document to an iOS device before you can download the file as a PDF or other format .
Software Update checks and updates both your running Lion and your recovery partition , so that in the event of a significant security issue booting to the recovery partition wo n't instantly open you up to attack . ( Compare booting unpatched Windows XP from DVD or a vendor recovery partition for recovery purposes ; it has severe security issues fixed by service packs . I 'm not picking on Windows here ; XP 's quite old at this point , and was the biggest target out there for years , and security is a rapidly moving target . ) Given the recent growth in Mac malware , this is a good thing .
Insert a comment ⌘ + OPTION+A Turn track changes on or off ⌘ + SHIFT+E From <URL>
The solution for me was to use the adapter with a three pin extension cord . Then your notebook is grounded , and no more charges stay on the cover that shock you . :-) . About steps 1-3 In steps 1 and 2 , you reset the System Management Controller ( <URL> ) on a Mac that has a battery , which you should not remove on your own . The SMC manages hardware conditions related to temperatures and power consumption . You may also be interested in the question : <URL> . I 'm not aware of the shortcut you performed in step 3 .
It should continue , if your script has any error-handling for loosing connection to the database ( assuming off-site DB ) . Though the exact behaviour is hard to predict without seeing the actual code . Sleeping the system may also leed to unexpected results in the script .
Try <URL> . The last time I tried it , it was pretty quick ( quicker than OpenOffice ) and according to the website , can open files .
It keeps holiday music out of my playlists , off my iPhone , until I want to overdose on them from December 24th through 25th every year . For that alone : I love the check box .
To date , it is still not possible to edit song metadata on an iOS device , nor it be recommended if it was possible . Songs you get from sources directly onto the device ( Spotify , GrooveShark , iTunes Store ) all contain correct information . If you have damaged metadata inside media you 've acquired elsewhere , look into software that will clean it up before syncing it over .
One reason beta software is restricted and considered confidential is that by exposing features could result in revenue recognition issues for the company , which could result in the company refunding money or needing to restate their corporate financials . Lets say you play with the beta , and are extremely excited to discover that this beta has support for left-handed keyboards . As a big user of left-handed keyboards , you begin tweeting about the support , write blog posts , etc. . Many users decide to purchase new Macs because they too are anticipating left-handed keyboards . However , Apple decides that supporting left-handed keyboards does n't work well enough , and decide to not ship the support in the golden master release . Customers sue Apple , demanding not only refunds but reparations for lost time because of the " missing " support . The SEC investigates Apple , because they feel Apple may have mislead investors , who anticipated that there would be lots of sales of Macs , partly due to left hand keyboard support ... You get the idea .
Great question . This was one of my first confusions about the Finder when switching to Mac . Here 's what I think : On other operating systems , the program menu is contained in the active application window . As such , each window is in essence a full instance of the program . ( There 's not as much integration with Windows Explorer , as there is with Finder on Mac OS . It ' a tiny difference , but it really alters user experience . ( My proof is the fact that you 're asking this question . ) By contrast , on Mac OS X , the menu bar in the Finder is where all Apps ' menus go . All running programs are tied to the Finder in a different way than on other operating systems . On Mac , a program may have auxiliary windows and such . In other operating systems , you generally have similar " panels " in their own window . Also , remember that the yellow and green buttons only effect the window that they 're in , so it seems odd to group a control that effects the entire app with two that only effect one window . Therefore , the " red dot " only affects the active window . One notable exception is the Mac App Store . In that case , you are one hundred percent correct . Clicking the red dot closes the entire app . Notice how the App Store has no auxiliary menus or panes ? Closing that Window does indeed mean you 're exiting the app .
end question
start question
How do I create an automator to forward mail ?
There is an easy way to do that right in Gmail . In the settings tab , go to settings and first add a forwarding address under Forwarding and POP/IMAP . Enter the desired forwarding address and confirm it by entering the confirmation code or clicking on the confirmation link . Then go to the Filters and Blocked Addresses tab in settings . On the bottom of the page choose " create a new filter " . In the first line enter the email from the certain sender that you would like to forward , then click on " Create filter with this search " , which will bring you to the next page . Here check the " Forward it to : choose an address " box , and choose the address . That should do it . Gmail has great filters for mails Hope this is helpful , might not be Automator or applescript , but it 's right inside gmail , fast and easy ... cheers
I think you can do it if you combine it with Apple Script . There is no print action for emails . But you can call a applescript . You could even combine it with ( mail ) rules . So when for example you see ' invoice ' in the header or body , you start a applescript that automatically prints and saves it to a folder . Im not really into applescript , but have a look here : <URL>
Tap Settings and then tap the iCloud icon . Tap " Storage &amp; Backup . " Tap Manage Storage . Tap your iOS device in the Backups area . Under Backup Options , turn off any items that you no longer wish to back up . Return to Storage &amp; Backup and tap " Back up now . " This will immediately remove the requested backup data from iCloud . Choose " Delete Backup " if you want to turn off Backup and remove all data for that Backup from iCloud . ( via <URL> )
I do n't know how to do that with Preview.app or iPhoto , but for this purpose you could use an online photo editor . First hit on google here is <URL> - and it does the trick . ( upload the image and you can make it white in several ways , e.g. by pressing B or G after you have set the main color to white , though there wil be more intelligent ways )
You should be able to do this using shared libraries , which would probably be the easiest way and not cause any problems with permissions or anything like that , however it would probably end up with number of separate libraries rather than just having a one large library . UPDATE : Having had a bit of a look into the shared libraries feature it could be a decent option if combined with iTunes DJ - which can be turned on in preferences if currently off . Essentially you would require everyone to turn sharing on for their iTunes library ( or specific playlists ) then have one of your computers acting as a master which has iTunes DJ setup . You can then add tracks from any of the libraries and have requests and votes for next tracks sent via the Remote app for iPhone or just shouted across the office . May still not be quite what you 're after , but essentially uses features already available in iTunes rather than a 3rd Party app to do it for you . -- You could try having one folder for music and all linking to it , but you may hit permission issues or DRM or something silly like that . <URL> This tells you how to move the library to a shared folder for one computer to allow multiple users to connect to it , the actual library is still per user , so you may get duplicate files or have to update the library if new files are added . In theory this would allow multiple computers to connect to one collection of music , add to it and play the files others have added . Though my theory is untested and may be flawed ( like all good theories ) . On a different note : I was able to have one library ( so viewing the same apps , podcasts , music etc. without the need to update it each time you logged in or downloaded new stuff ) for multiple users on one computer by copying the whole iTunes folder to the shared folder and then adding an alias to the shared iTunes folder in the Music folder for each users Home folder - which is a bit of a convoluted sentence - which may be of some help , but probably not as the library gets locked when it 's accessed by a user , so i ca n't imagine it 'd help for multiple computers . Just another way of doing things . Hope that helps in some way , let me know id it 's absolute guff though .
It does n't work this way . You can add images by going to the Photos app , selecting the pictures you want to add ( I believe it 's a button on the upper right of the screen to switch to selection mode ) , and tap on , once you selected them , then you can go back to your mail , tap where you want to add them and select
I 'm afraid not . iCloud is designed for iOS devices without a user accessible file system . iCloud files are strictly associated with apps and only allow one level of folder nesting . If you 're not happy with this , you can send feedback to Apple about it here : <URL> You could use Dropbox instead ( https://www.dropbox.com/ ) which has more flexibility around file organisation . The downside is that you only get 2GB free but you can earn more free storage in various ways . Google Drive ( https://drive.google.com/start#home ) gives you 5GB free .
This still is possible via a work around . The right-click contextual menu does not contain an option Make Alias for the Originals/Masters directories , but it does for subdirectories . The option Make Alias always shows in the menubar under File & #x 2192 ; Make Alias but is greyed out for the Originals/Masters directories . Workaround Go to a subdirectory of Originals/Master in Finder . Create your alias , & #x 2318 ; + L. Open the Info of the created alias folder , & #x 2318 ; + I. Click the button Select new Original Press & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G to enter a custom path . Enter your path , e.g. Rename the Alias folder .
You can format any drive to FAT16 with Command 1 ) Launch Terminal 2 ) Find The Drive you Want to Format In this case , my disk is disk4 . Your disk will most likely be different ! Be sure to reference the correct disk - you can and will lose your data if you format the wrong drive !!! 3 ) Unmount the disk 4 ) Format the drive After a few moments , your drive will format . 5 ) Remount the drive ( optional ) It will probably show up as on your Desktop . You can rename it here or to do it at the time of formatting use when you format the drive .
No , this is limitation of GMail via Exchange on iOS . The only way to have draft support is to use the GMail template when adding a new mail account .
Here is an example Automator workflow to convert image files to a specific type : When creating your workflow , do n't forget to set it to a Service so that it can be accessed in the context menu . The Copy Finder Items makes sure that the original files do n't get replaces . You can change the save location to a variable if you wish , or just delete that action and let it replace the original file . If you would like the option of which file type you would like , you can create multiple service workflows with different names ( and different file formats for the Change Type of Images action ) .
Right Option ( Alt ) v s You must have U.S. Extended keyboard layout enabled for the above to work .
<URL> is a nice open source video conversion tool . <URL> is a blog post with some good info on settings to use for iPad rips/conversions . As for getting videos added to iTunes automatically , that is not something Handbrake will do . If you are using OS X however , <URL> AppleScript seems like it would be up to the task . The script watches a folder , when a file is copied in it waits for the file to stop getting larger ( when the copy or encode [ in this case ] is finished ) and then adds the item to your iTunes library . I have n't had a chance to test this for myself though , so I ca n't guarantee it will work as desired .
You can inspect the agreements that Apple wishes you to accept as part of the enrollment into iTunes U as an instructor from the web page : <URL> You will need to sign in with an Apple ID or make a new Apple ID to access this page . It asks you to define your affiliation with some sort of school - so that might be a problem if you do n't have a school that will permit you to represent them . You could of course form a school since the categories look broad ( Kindergarten , Elementary , Middle , High School , Undergraduate , Graduate , Professional and/or Vocational ) and it 's not clear based on where you live what legal requirements are present to form a school . There is a second registration step for each institution to establish a public iTunes U page that also might have more detailed requirements to vet the existence of a formal organization , but the footnote 3 on the <URL> lists : Teachers not affiliated with schools that have public iTunes U sites are limited to 12 courses and 50 students per course . So , you might either find a school that allows you to begin publishing or consider forming one . The system is clearly designed / worded to prevent just anyone from joining , but I do n't know how strict Apple would be in approving an application . I 'd say you would n't want to waste your time making a fictitious school or being dishonest on the application , but if you were unaffiliated , you might list that and see how the application process goes .
<URL> worked for me Assuming you have already setup the alternate account in your gmail Remove the gmail account from your iphone Add new mail account Settings > Mail > Add Account > Other Enter standard gmail id and password in New Account screen Enter standard gmail id and password in IMAP and SMTP screens ( imap.gmail.com , smtp.gmail.com ) After account is setup , under " IMAP Account Information " change address field to the desired account ( Note that the " Incoming Mail Server " settings will remain as gmail info , this is the difference between creating the account manually and using the automatic gmail setup ) Enjoy
Mail is like many apps that use the network - it ca n't just quit if there is network traffic active , it needs to see those requests safely terminated . If for example Mail is checking your iCloud account it needs to wait a certain time until all processes are complete before exiting . It may also be sending an email that you have just hit " Send " on , and then you have immediately tried to quit - ca n't work that way . Even if the network communication is asynchronous these things need to be tidied up before exiting .
Audacity can do this as far as I know . There is a White Noise generator , and under the Effects menu there is a " Noise Removal " option . I do n't know if you can do it in realtime , but you could make a short recording of the ambient noise , run the Noise Removal , figure out what got removed ( subtract before and after ) , and then play that part but inverted . Maybe ...
Turns out the real problem is when I sync with Foobar . Looks like I 'm stuck with iTunes .
Signature Check Check your Automator application is being signed correctly . Do this using the command line tool . Use the following command in Terminal.app to view the code signature associated with your application : Does the output mention your developer identifier ? If not , revisit how you <URL> as it may be broken . Quarantine Flag The quarantine flag is applied to files downloaded from the Internet . This flag can be manually removed using this command :
Assuming that the InstallESD.dmg is on the windows 7 computer : Copy the InstallESD.dmg file onto the USB drive ( just copy , not burning etc ) Boot into the MacBook 's Recovery Partition . Plug in the USB drive and open disk utility . Restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on the USB drive * Restart and boot from the USB Drive . * You might not be able to restore from an image that on the drive being restored . In which case use 2 USB drives ( one to copy the InstallESD.dmg from the PC and one to restore it to and boot from ) or : open terminal from the Utilities menu in the recovery partition ( on the homescreen ) . Use to find the location of your hard drive and USB drive Use to copy the InstallESD.dmg to you hard drive . ( e.g. , where you replace the paths with the ones found in step 2 ) Open Disk Utility and restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on your hard drive , if you ca n't find your hard drive in the Open dialog , press cmd + shift + g and you can enter the path manually . Or if your USB CD drive can burn DVDs and you have a DVD , you could use the USB drive to copy from windows and then use the Macbook 's Disk Utility to burn the image to the DVD . ( or use the DVD to copy from the PC and use the USB drive to boot )
end question
start question
Is there a way to search by partial phone number in iOS 7 ?
You can search your contacts by partial phone number using Spotlight .
Yes and No . The game has to support the ability to run in windowed mode . If it does n't support it , then it will not be able to do it . Now , when it comes to games that do n't have the option in an preference menu , they can sometimes still support the feature , they just do n't advertise it . There are a few games that require you to edit a preference file to enable/disable certain things . Usually contained inside the game icon , right clicking on the game icon and hitting " Show Package Contents " will open the game 's directory and show you the files that make the game . Be very careful when doing this because editing the wrong thing can break the game . Usually if this option exists then it will be somewhere on the internet and you will be able to find out more about it by doing a search for that game . One such game that supports this is Cave Story + , editing the preference file can enable certain game modes and unlock features . Other games will work with a shortcut when running , usually : Now , if none of these are viable options , then you wo n't be able to do it . I hope that helps clarify things .
⇧ + ⌃ + ⏏ puts the display ( only the display , not the whole computer ) to sleep and will then prompt you for a password if you have enabled under . If your Mac does not have an & #x 23CF ; ( eject ) key , you can use ⇧ + ⌃ + ⌽ ( power ) .
<URL> find any application or file this app will learn and prioritize your searches system commands and extended features ( google search , bitly ... ) you can get more powerful features when purchasing the <URL> <URL> find any application or file this app will learn and prioritize your searches lots of free <URL> with extend the functionalities move files execute bash commands ... Spotlight ( built-in ) ... which is part of the OS and be triggered using & #x 2318 ; + space ( default shortcut ) .
Here 's how I understand it . Mobile apps that run on iOS 7 can indeed be set up to ( either manually or automatically ) connect via VPN , but the devices have to be managed with OS X 10.9 as the backend VPN server and MDM . This is intended to separate the corporate connection ( which may be carrying sensitive data ) from the personal one . Functionally , a payload ( XML file ) will be pushed to the iOS device . The VPN payload is designated by specifying as the value . The VPN payload contains VPN connection information , but relevant to VPN-By-App , the key is enabled : If true , the Per-App VPN connection starts automatically when apps linked to this Per-App VPN service initiate network communication . Additionally , there is a VPNUUID key : A globally-unique identifier for this VPN configuration . This identifier is used to configure apps so that they use the Per-App VPN service for all of their network communication . And a SafariDomains key : This array contains strings , each of which is a domain that should trigger this VPN connection in Safari . So , the short answer to your question is Yes .
There 's no official way to achieve this , however you can try <URL> in a certain order until they match the colour you want .
If the focus is on the search box press " esc " key . If not , the fastest way I 've found is by first pressing Option + Command + F to set the focus on the search box and then press esc to clear it . This is a link to apple standard shorcuts : <URL>
When you 're on the Google Images page scroll all the way to the bottom . There is a choice there to use either Google Tablet or Classic ( defaults to tablet on the iPad ) . Click on classic and you should get the same options as on your mac/pc .
If you want set-it-forget-it like BackBlaze , then iCloud is not for you . Your data is safe from a rogue Apple employee , but not safe from a government agency or someone with a legal ability to extract it . When Apple can help you regain access to your iCloud files if you forget your password then they can help a government agency to do that too . But if you create your own password-encrypted disk image ( . sparsebundle file using Disk Utility and encryption in the Finder ) then the password is known only to you , and is only stored in RAM on your machine while your disk image is open and mounted ; it is destroyed when you unmount and close the encrypted disk image . You can keep copies of that encrypted disk image on your machine or in a cloud service . If you never store that password in the Keychain iCloud or localitems keychain files , then it will never be uploaded to iCloud . If you store that password in a local-only Keychain file then it is secure but would not necessarily be proof against seizure of your hardware or a malicious remote control . Regardless of how well you protect the password to your encrypted disk image , you might be forced to decrypt it whilst under arrest . If you ' forget ' it , then that may be used against you in court . If you truly forget it , then your data is completely deleted and unrecoverable .
In iOS 6 , your phone number and your Apple ID will be unified , so when you 'll receive a iMessage or a Facetime call , they will appear on all your devices ( iOS and Mac OS ) . More info <URL> . So I think you just need to wait until this fall to resolve your problem !
Instead of clicking on the " Confirm Faces " button , simply select all the photos that match ( using shift-click or any other method ) and then drag them to the space above the grey bar that says " John may also be in the photos below " . This has the affect of bulk confirming your selection as being John .
After seeing @Lri 's answer I discovered that my original service would work in the Finder as long as I was n't in column view . Since that 's the view that I use most of the time , I decided to see if I could get @Lir 's basic solution working without the need for an external application . Here 's what I did : Open Automator and choose " Service " from the options of what to make . Set " Service receives " to " no input " and " in " to " Finder.app " . Drop a " Run AppleScript " action onto the main window . Drop the code @Lri provided into place so you end up with : Save the action as " Open via TextMate " . Under " System Preferences " - > " Keyboard " - > " Keyboard Shortcuts " - > " Services " - > " General " add my preferred shortcut to the " Open vie TextMate " item . This works in all my Finder views ( including column view ) for Mac OS X 10.7.3 and TextMate 1.5.10 .
Only the iPhone 5C has any theme support , in that they contain custom wallpaper to match the colour of the device which is selected as a default when first using the device . This themeing does not extend into apps , and is simply a pre-chosen wallpaper . It has no relevance for any other phone model , or iPad .
If you have asked Siri to Send a new Message to some person , Siri Normally asks " Do you want me to send it " when it thinks you have finished . Saying " Send " normally works . And Siri will say " Ok then I will send the Text message . . " I do not think there is a way to do it after you have used dictation . Apples dictations <URL>
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
Now that the iOS 6 version has swipe-to-delete enabled , you must swipe the list 's title to move between lists . Swiping in the body wo n't work .
The serial number will allow you to view the <URL> of the phone . Using this information , you can 1 ) find the original iOS the phone ran , and 2 ) find out the iOS ( s ) with which the device is <URL> However , you ca n't remotely find the current iOS version or specific update to that version based on the serial number alone .
Yes you can use logmein <URL> After installing and setting things up you will just need your browser wherever you are .
This is a <URL> . Cellular downloads are limited to a file size of 20 MB or smaller . See comment below , iOS 5.1 has increased this limit to 50 MB .
The important thing to know is that once an OS is no longer supported , it does n't immediately become full of security problems . It 's also not beyond Apple to give updates to non-current ( for want of a better description ) versions of iOS for major security problems . Therefore , it 's not possible at this stage to say when iOS 7 will be insecure .
end question
start question
How to select calendar with " Quick Event " in 10.7 iCal ?
You can enter events to specific calendars by holding down the + button See here the entry from iCal help : Add events to a calendar You can add any kind of event to your iCal calendars . For example , you can add meetings , doctor appointments , and family activities . You ca n't add events to a calendar you subscribed to . Open iCal Click Add ( + ) at the top of the iCal window or press Command ( ⌘ ) - N. Events are added automatically to your default calendar . If you want to choose a different calendar for the event , hold down the Add button ( + ) , and then choose a calendar . To change your default calendar , choose iCal > Preferences , click General , and then select a calendar from the Default Calendar pop-up menu .
Since you mentioned Firesheep , let me put in a plug for <URL> : Sheepsafe was built to automate the task of switching your network configuration to use a SOCKS proxy whenever you join an untrusted network . Sheepsafe works by keeping a configuration of known safe wireless networks . When you join an untrusted network , Sheepsafe switches to a network location that has a SOCKS proxy configured and starts a SOCKS proxy by SSH ' ing into a remote server , thus protecting your browsing traffic from FireSheep and other snoopers on the local network . When you switch back to a safe network , Sheepsafe switches back to the default , trusted location and shuts down the SOCKS proxy .
Well there does n't appear to be any actual proper solution to this , so I have resorted to simply putting an alert in at the pre-set duration of the event . Definitely not what I was hoping for but ... it 's the best that I could come up with . This gets me an alert at the end of the time block , but unfortunately wo n't automatically adjust if I alter the duration of a block .
Short answer ... No . There is no public API that manages the " Do Not Disturb " feature . There are also no frameworks that can achieve this . Googling would also say it 's not the kind of sandbox breakout Apple would be likely to allow in the future , either .
This feature basically adds an account to your system ( in this case a Gmail Account ) . It is the equivalent of opening System Preferences > Mail , Contacts &amp; Calendars and adding said account there . ( On the screenshot I have only one account added : iCloud , but you can add as many as you want , from whichever services listed . Also note , I 'm using Mountain Lion , which added support for more sites like Twitter and Vimeo ) . Safari offers to auto add your accounts whenever you sign in for the first time , as I 'm guessing many users do n't know this preference pane is available . Basically what adding an account will do is allow you to sync your information to the apps on your Mac . In this case , your Gmail emails would be downloaded automatically by Mail , your Google Calendar would be synced to iCal and you will be able to use Google Talk with iChat , if so you choose . If you click " no " on the dialog box , it wont re-appear ( as to not annoy users every time they want to log in ) but there is nothing special about the dialog itself , it just saves you opening System Preferences and adding the accounts yourself . Hope it helps !
I have found a suitable work around that I have been testing for a couple of days . While using iCal on a Mac running Snow Leopard , I needed to add an account to iCal . This account would point to iCloud and sync with it . So , open Preferences and select accounts , enter the add account window by hitting + . this takes you to : You need to choose CalDav and enter your Apple ID email address ( not your . me.com email address ) enter in your password and the server name which in most cases is Once this has been added you will need to uncheck some of the calendars in the ' on my mac ' menu .
I do n't think Snow Leopard did that by default , you most likely had a QuickLook plugin installed , such as <URL> or <URL> . You can simply install this again in Lion .
Edit : If you 're connecting an Exchange account or to a Google calendar via the Exchange setting , the Second Alert option is not available , because these systems do not support a second alert . If you are not connecting via the Exchange setting you can access the Second Alert like this : On your iPhone , start Calendar . Navigate to the day that has your event . Select the event , which brings up the Event Details . Click the Edit button . Scroll down until you see Alert . If the event does not already have an alert , it will say " none " and you click " none " to add an alert . Once the event has an alert , you will see a new entry just below it called Second Alert . It will say " none " and just like the first alert , you can click on it to add another alert .
Go to System Preferences > Trackpad > Point &amp; Click and enable the " Look up " checkbox . You will then be able to do a with a three finger tap on the trackpad . See : <URL>
To Remove the Calendar completely . Go to the Mail , Contacts &amp; Calendars Preference in System Preferences select the google mail account and uncheck the Calendars &amp; Reminders To Set the default Calendar for new events . In Calendar the default calendar for new events is controlled in the Preferences . You can set it to Selected Calender to make new events appear for the calendar you have selected or choose a particular calendar
Since you have BetterTouchTool , this is pretty easy . Simply choose whatever gestures you want to use for tab-switching and assign them the following keyboard shortcuts : These shortcuts are CtrlTab and CtrlShiftTab respectively . The first shortcut will switch to the next tab , and the latter will switch to the previous tab .
I have two alternatives : Press Cmd + L ( go the Location/Search field ) , then Cmd + Return . Click the back button ( ) , then press Cmd while clicking the forward button ( ) . Both of these will open a tab in the background . ( Often , Cmd + click opens the click target 's reference in a new tab . ) If you also press Shift while performing the second step of either of these alternatives , the tab will open in the foreground .
It 's not something you can do out-of-the-box , but there are ways to hack around that . This article will give details : <URL> Essentially , the trick is to create a series of scripts and use something like FastScripts ( or something like Alfred or LaunchBar ) to run the scripts .
There 's no exact equivalent that I 'm aware of ; I usually rubberband-select a region and then command-click the ones I do n't want . Mouse down at the top left of the area you want to select , drag to the bottom right of the area , release . A rubberband will be highlighted as you drag the mouse ; all icons within the rubberband will be selected . It 's also possible to chain these by holding Shift or Option for the second and successive selections , so you can add additional selections or deselect icons selected previously .
Okay well if you want a simple way to batch delete duplicates with the naming convention , you can do it very easily from the terminal . First open up your terminal . Then navigate to the folder you are trying to delete stuff from . This is done by using the command . For example , if your photos are stored in you would type . From there you can type to make sure you are in the right folder , and it should list the contents of your folder . After that , all you have to do is type : and it will delete any photo that has in the name !
This AppleScript code will toggle the state of the " Use grayscale " checkbox in Accessibility under System Preferences in OS X Yosemite ( tested under 10.10.4 ) regardless of what was last selected under Accessibility as it tells System Preferences to open directly to the location of the " Use grayscale " checkbox and toggle its state . The next issue is how you want to execute it . The problem surrounding setting it as a Service through Automator to use a Keyboard shortcut without the use of a third party utility is every application that receives the shortcut key combo will need to have permission to do so and that becomes a pain unless you only choose e.g. Finder instead of all applications . So without a third party utility I 'd either save it as a script in the Users Script folder and then access it from the Script menu in the Apple menu bar or as an application . The settings for the Script menu in the Apple menu bar are in the Script Editors Preferences . Then it 's just two mouse clicks anytime you want to toggle the state of the " Use grayscale " checkbox . One to click the Scripts menu and another to click the script name . As an application it can be placed in the Dock and then it 's a single mouse click anytime you want to toggle the state of the " Use grayscale " checkbox . In either of these two cases you 'll have to give permission under Accessibility on the Privacy tab of Security &amp; Privacy in System Preferences in order to run it successfully .
Remember the <URL> ? Apple did license the technology at that point in time to build an iTunes compatible phone with Motorola , before the iPhone era . The <URL> was one of the other few non-Apple devices compatible with iTunes . There was also the case of the <URL> which supported iTunes syncing ( unlicensed ) , but Apple kept breaking the syncing ( purposedly ? ) with new iTunes versions , forcing users of Palm Pre 's to search for hacks to get it working again . I think this shows that it is technically possible ( even through reverse engineering ) , but Apple is not going to sit by and allow it . This probably is even more true nowadays , as they are fiercely protecting the iTunes/iOS eco-system . You could also use iSync to sync contacts and calendars with many different phone models , but it has gone missing since Mac OS X Lion . Here 's <URL> to install it again though . EDIT : Found a quote from Apple regarding " non-supported " devices , which illustrates their stance : Apple is aware that some third-parties claim that their digital media players are able to sync with Apple software . However , Apple does not provide support for , or test for compatibility with , non-Apple digital media players and , because software changes over time , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with non-Apple digital media players . And here 's a reaction from Apple to Business Week regarding the Palm Pre : iTunes 8.2.1 is a free software update that provides a number of important bug fixes . It also disables devices falsely pretending to be iPods , including the Palm Pre . As we 've said before , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with unsupported digital media players .
OK , this might be somewhat opinion-based , however ... Possible , yes . Worth it , no . Possible There are tools &amp; online guides far too long to repro or précis here on how to achieve it . It requires hacking the firmware &amp; needs re-hacking at each update - These guides from MacRumors are as good as they get , one for <URL> &amp; another for <URL> . Worth it ? The 1,1 &amp; 2,1 are really end-of-life &amp; now very slow compared to a ' modern ' machine . I really guess it depends on your budget , but you can get an absolute top-flight 5,1 [ or the smart money goes on a 4,1 with the Apple upgrade kit ] with two 6-core hyperthreading Xeons @ 3.46 GHz &amp; 64GB RAM for under # 1800 in the UK . Your existing drives will just carry over [ though idk about the OS itself , mine did from a 3,1 to 5,1 ] . The Geekbench scores on those are about 32k , that 's slightly under the current top model ' trash-can ' at 33k . I just checked the score for the 2.66 Mac Pro , 6k . I took the latter path , even though I was only moving up from a 3,1 - which is now in the hands of my partner &amp; very happily running El Capitan . I wanted a speed boost &amp; the upgraded 4,1 was right on the money for me .
No , you ca n't disable pop-up reminders globally . You can turn off an alert by accessing the event properties in the Calendar app , but then it will be disabled in Google Agenda too .
If you highlight the file in the finder , press command-i to open the file info dialog . Change the entry " Open with " to " iCal " ( select " other " and browse for iCal if it is not listed ) . Press the button " change all " to make " open in iCal " the default action .
end question
start question
how to view Apple TV purchases in iTunes ?
Found the answer here : <URL> I must say I found this all very confusing . Apple devices normally work so seamlessly together . Why hide this functionality by a checkbox deep inside a preference pane ?
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
Really , the only difference is that the UI ( User Interface ) will be different between the Apple TV and the PS4 . UI is the arrangement of any virtual objects that the user interacts with , so virtual buttons , menus , etc. will vary from platform to platform . Honestly , if you want to use it JUST for Netflix , what you have is probably fine , at least not worth spending an extra $ 69 over . However , Apple is rumoured to unveil a new Apple TV very soon , which could have new features like a touchscreen remote , 4K support , a dedicated App Store , and more . So at least wait until Wednesday to make your final decision . You can read all all the rumours about a new Apple TV <URL> . And watch the Keynote on Wednesday , September 9 at 12 PM CDT <URL> .
On your Mac , enable photo sharing in iTunes . Do n't know why you have to use iTunes - I guess ATV does n't know how to read the iPhoto library directly . I 'm not in front of my Mac , but you can Google the photo sharing menu command if it 's not obvious . On the ATV3 , go to the Computer menu/icon , click on your computer name if needed , then go to Photos . Your shared albums should be in there . From the main Settings menu/icon , you should be able to select one of your albums to use as the slide show . That said , it 's easier to use Photo Stream ! Let me know if you need help with that .
My easiest solution is to get an Airport Express ( that is preconfigured with wireless settings and then hooking that up to the Apple TV ) and then access the hotel 's terms and conditions using your smart phone .
Apple Music require iTunes 12.2 , which is not included in Yosemite 10.10.4 so , soon , Apple should release another update exclusively for iTunes where there should be a button to play Apple Music . You can get that update from the iTunes menu - select Check for Updates ... If that update is n't rolled out or available , you can listen here : <URL>
The new TVSJ Framework or the TVML wo n't work on my 3rd Gen Apple TV ? Apple said the 3rd gen Apple TV will not run tvOS when means you ca n't develop any app on that device . If you do want to develop , you can buy a 4th gen. Do I have to develop everything via iOS swift/Objective-C ? Nope , Apple TV runs tvOS which have its own SDK . But the frameworks are very similar . tvOS also got some of its own SDK which iOS do n't have . You do need to develop in Swift or Objective-C . Can I test/install my app without a paid developer membership ? Yes , Xcode 7 allows you to test app on device without paid account . Though to install app on Apple TV , you will need an USB-C cable .
If you do not have a dev kit you can use other companies who build , release and manage subscriptions . One such comapny is <URL> However these options are generally very expensive . You are better off ( if you can create and develop the product yourself ) purchasing the SDK license ( $ 99 per year ) or failing that you can use <URL> to publish the Newsstand Magazine but that costs about $ 500 There is more information on <URL>
Yep . You can have your Apple TV learn the remote codes of any IR remote by going to Settings > General > Remotes . It will then ask you to hit buttons on your new remote corresponding to what it shows on screen . Full instructions can be found at Apple 's site : <URL>
Yes , this is possible . Connect the device to your computer using the USB cable and use iTunes to update the OS . Alternatively , you can install the configuration profile available in the Member Center of <URL> .
No - You have to click on Search and a serach queery will bring up all results accross iTunes . The store page behind newsstand is just a coverpage for the iTunes store . You will find that once you have entereed the store from newsstand you are able to browse and download any iTunes content . It is easier in this case to use iTunes on the desktop of a computer . You can browse in alternate ways by tapping on release date and then sorting by name , most popular or release date . However when you use the iTunes store on an iPad , you have the additional option of filtering results by Category , you can then select Newsstand .
If you uncheck " Live updating " in the smart playlist edit screen you will be able to delete tracks from the smart playlist . However the playlist wo n't repopulate until you right-click the playlist and select " Update Smart Playlist " . Interestingly that command does n't do anything unless the tracks have been deleted .
This <URL> says that the current Apple TV ( 2 ) has : Power : Built-in 6-watt universal power supply So yes , it looks like it will be fine in Europe .
I just had this problem on mail.app and just figured it out using the instructions on <URL> . The instructions on the linked page are for ical . I do n't have access to ical so I ca n't confirm that it works on ical . But it works well on calendar.app . So ... I 'm hoping it will work just the same for you . Here are the steps : Login to Outlook Web Access ( the web interface for your Exchange Server ) . Click on public folders ( for me , it was all they way in the bottom left ) . The , navigate to the public folder of your choice ( I needed a calendar ) . Right click on the public calendar and select copy from the context menu . Navigate back to your own mailbox ( I clicked " mail " in the lower left ) . Right click on your own calendar and click paste ( I added it to a new folder ) . Return to iCal and refresh ( not sure how you do that in iCal ) . Hope it works as well for you as it just did for me !
If you have an iPad 2 and a iOS developer 's account ( or patience until this fall ) you can try the hot new iOS 5 feature : <URL>
I do n't think it 'll work . According to the Apple TV 's <URL> , playing protected content ( which I imagine means the one you 'll get from iTunes rentals and Netflix ) requires <URL> , so using a converter box probably wo n't work . At least the ones I 've found online after doing a quick search specifically say they wo n't work with HDCP .
Yes ... Works with my Iphone 4s and latest Apple TV
Yes , as soon as you start the Remote app and tap the ' Menu ' button , the Apple TV will wake up .
Firstly , you must bear in mind that each In-App Purchase is uniquely associated with an Apple ID and that there are different In-App Purchase types : Consumable - You need to purchase these items every time you want them , and you ca n't download them again for free . Non-Consumable - You purchase these items one time , and you can transfer them to multiple devices authorized with the same iTunes Store account . Non-renewing Subscriptions - You can purchase these items again after the subscription period ends . Auto-Renewable Subscriptions - You can purchase these items with different renewal periods . There are , therefore , differences in the way the availability of the product is handled . As stated on Apple 's <URL> : You ca n't sync or transfer non-renewing subscriptions and consumable In-App Purchase to another iOS device or Mac . You can transfer non-consumable In-App Purchases and auto-renewable subscriptions to another iOS device or Mac authorized with your iTunes Store account . For example , if you transfer a game from an iPhone to an iPod touch , only the game levels will sync , and the extra ammo and experience points wo n't transfer .
In your first question you ask : what should be done if there is currently 1 Apple ID ( my account ) that is used for all the purchases and also is used for my iCloud , and I want to add another user to the mix ? To enable you to share purchases the new user will use your Apple ID for the App Store and iTunes . This use would then create a new Apple ID or use an existing one for the iCloud portion . They would assign this Apple ID to iCloud by clicking Settings - > iCloud - > Account . Secondly you ask : What problems will there be if my Apple ID is used for the purchases on all devices and also used for my iCloud account for my user , while a different Apple ID is used for iCloud for a different user ? This is the solution I noted above , and the preferred method . By separating iCloud accounts for each user you 'll have less devices competing for the 5 GB of free space allotted by default . In summary : All devices use Apple ID for Store ( Settings - > Store - > Apple ID ) Your devices would use your Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) Other user 's devices would use a unique Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) There are no drawbacks to sharing an Apple ID and using individual accounts for iCloud .
end question
start question
What are the folders in OS X that I should know about ?
I 'm going to resume them by memory , so future edits will probably fix all the mess I might type now :) The File Structure of OSX resembles a typical Unix/Linux operating system ( which in fact is the root of it all ) , albeit with some " Apple " differences . Some of those differences have aliases to keep the " unix " heart happy , but some are simply modified to be used as such . In short here are the major " folders " in your file system : / Applications : This one is self explanatory , all your Mac 's apps should go there ( unless you have an app that you want to be visible for only one user ... ) . Normal users can read , " admins " can also drop things in there . / Developer : if you install Xcode and the developer libraries , this folder will magically bring the unicorns for developing awesome Cocoa apps , iOS apps and dashboard widgets among other things . Otherwise the folder does n't even exist . / Library : Shared libraries , and files necessary for OS X to actually function . Preferences , settings , app stuff , browser plug-ins ( or more specifically , how to get rid of Adobe 's Flash ) ;) You usually do n't tamper around here , but it 's normal if you want to clear some Apps settings , fix something , remove or install browser plugins , extensions , etc. . Sometimes you will venture into / Library . Handle with care and always backup before breaking stuff here . It would be hard to destroy an OS X install by tampering / Library , but it 's possible ... / Network : All network libraries , servers , devices , etc. . You should n't be here unless you know what you 're doing and want to bypass GUI utilities . In almost 7 years of OSX , I 've never touched this directory . / System : Everything that OS X needs to properly function is here . I 'd say that you should n't touch anything or problems will arise . / Users : This is the equivalent to Unix and Linux 's / home directory . And here you will have sub directories for each of your users : / Users/John , / Users/Doe , etc. . Inside your home folder you will have a " similar " structure . See later for more / Users ' love . / Volumes : Mounted stuff/devices and volumes , real or virtual ( think of CDs , DMGs , samba shares , etc ) , get their own " directory " here . So if you mount a smb share called MyShare , you can ' cd / Volumes/MyShare ' to access it from the Command Line . The Finder will happily hide this from you ( unless you set it to show invisible files I think ) . / bin : What else can be said about bin that you do n't know already from your Linux knowledge . Same thing . If you install ' git ' for example , it will go to / usr/local/git ... so you get the idea . Obviously all the essential common binaries are here too . Think the command ' ls ' ... it 's there , in all its glory . / etc : Oh the great " etcetera " ... Just like any other Unix , local system configs and ... etcetera . It 's " similar " to any other unix , with some Apples . But the purpose is the same and some of the files ( rc.local for example ) exist . Go ahead and take a look , but if you break it , you have to pay for it . ( OS X uses ' launchd ' to launch stuff , so google for that if you want to - for example - start a subversion daemon at startup , forget all you knew about runlevels ) . Otherwise , get insurance between tweaking too much in there , because it 's not covered by Apple Stack 's Exchange damaging policy ;) / dev : honoring it 's " unix " background , the device files representing peripherals are here . Who touches this anyway ... / usr : I googled for a good description of this and came up with a clever one : " Second major hierarchy , includes subdirectories that contain information , configuration files , and other essentials used by the operating system " / sbin : Also coming from the Unix nature of OSX , the system binaries , and administration utilities . These are not the droids you 're looking for , move along , move along . / tmp : The one and only temp directory ! Batteries not included . Note that this is not the " trash " . This is the real Unix temp . Unless you like being around waste , you should n't have to wander around there . Cron jobs will keep it clean ( tho it does n't hurt to restart your OSX every now and then ) . / var : Var is for variable data . Logs , and stuff that will " vary " during the operating system operation . You rarely walk through these rapidly changing places , but sometimes you have to hunt for logs or errors . Bring and umbrella there , it changes very often ... Ok and what 's with this / Users thing ? The Users folder contains your ' home ' . You have easy to identify folders ( i.e. : if you ca n't identify what Music , Documents , Movies , Downloads , Desktop and Pictures are for , then the problem might lie elsewhere ) , but at the same time , there are notable " duplicates " . What ? yes . You have a Library and an Applications folder here too ! I believe you 're already guessing what is all this about . Yes , all application settings that are for the user only will go in here ( to ~ / Library ) . That means that , although OS X will first look at / Library , if you install a ( for example ) browser plug-in in your ~ / Lib
The 3G radio requires more power . If you live in a weak 3G signal area , it may also cycle a lot between EDGE and 3G ; setting up the 3G connection draws more power . Finally , you may be able to save power by setting the iPhone to Fetch New Data less often ( Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendar > Fetch New Data ) .
I seems that I use filters in GMail to skip inbox , and the sound is actually come from Mail.app . As a result , no new mail arrives to the Inbox of Mail.app , but to the Archive of the Mail.app . In the preference of Mail.app , one option is to choose " Inbox Only " for " New message notifications " . But it seems that this option will not mute the new messages sound when new message arrive to other mailbox , only skip the notification alert that shows up in the upper right corner of the screen .
There are arguments and reasons to go either way . First the facts we know ( excluding jailbreak and cracking app store DRM ) : You can never change the Apple ID for each purchase once made . However , with MDM solutions evolving and VPP , there is the ability to purchase apps in bulk and then revoke the " purchase " by a subsequent AppleID and return a purchase to the pool for re-issue to another AppleID on later iOS versions . Perhaps that will come to the Mac at some future point . Apple has a <URL> to make the App Store work better for business use . The consumer level <URL> also exists to let one party pay and another redeem . You can change the payment option on your account with great ease . There is a 5 account limit on most devices . Updating apps is a chore each time you have to : get updates for account A go to store preferences enter account B and the password go back to the app store for updates update again - entering password B a second time go to store preferences enter account A and the password iTunes only backs up apps for which that computer is authorized . ( this can be a benefit or a hassle ) Now for some assumptions and commentary . Starting from the simplest scenario , you will either have to use a work credit card or work gift card on your personal Apple ID ( juggling the payment options and providing these receipts to account for these purchases just like you would a cup of coffee , a hotel room and other petty expenses that the business just writes off . ) Having a " work " id means in theory - the work could ask you for the password ( or force a reset of the password since they would likely maintain control of the email or request/force you to put their email as the contact when you leave the company ) . They could then issue that Apple ID to another person that would then have use of the apps you once purchased . In practice - how would you feel getting a " recycled " Apple ID as the new employee or the boss welcoming a new team member . Even $ 1000 a year in app purchases pales in comparison to the training costs to a business for losing an employee . Company " ownership " of these app purchases is not a big deal in practice . If you ask your employees to switch in the business account - what happens when someone fails to do that - you 'll end up with an expense report anyhow or you 'll have a grumpy employee . Banning personal Apple ID is a potential solution as well . That also is demeaning to someone that 's going to be taking their work on the go with them - especially if work did n't buy the hardware . There are times when I really want my work persona to be totally different than my personal . Having that work Apple ID separate from my home ID does n't seem to work at all to have that separation . I would not be able to remember to switch my account - I would go to purchase - see the password and enter it . About half way through the download I would realize my mistake . I can see this working for some , but think through this if you embark on a two ID strategy . I would draft an addendum to your normal expense reporting policy to call for quarterly reports ( if you do n't report these expenses as they happen ) , urge you to use existing work credit cards to buy gift cards or have one work account gift apps to users that do n't need many or are getting started . Once your company hits thousands of dollars of apps - you can look into the <URL> which still lets the business send redemption codes to individual Apple ID . Make it a point to educate everyone - an executive summary ( this is what we 're doing / how it will be controlled ) as well as a detailed guide - who does what and when . Once you think it through - the idea of work asking for a work Apple ID might make as little sense to you as it does to me . I would however , be sensitive to the finance department - the have long held practices on how to purchase software . Sitting down with them and showing them my purchase history and educating them how this all works . Handing them my phone and letting them buy an app - seeing it download and start using it is an eye opener .
Found the solution : just go into the Photos sidebar item and export from there . All the projects will be put in their appropriate folders .
Unless you 've already found it , how about something like <URL> ? It seems to have been published in 2009 and references Leopard in the description , so may also be a little out of date , but from the <URL> seems to have a reasonable amount of information about security and OS X internals . May be a bit left field for what you want though ... ? Or for something newer ( due to be publishe June 2012 ) how about <URL> ?
I presume you are referring to listing a folder using the disclosure triangle in list view : The state of shown/hidden folders in list view of a specific folder is stored in Finder cache , as well as the folder 's hidden . You can reset a folder 's folder disclosure triangle by running the following command inside the folder that you wish to reset :
1 ) That entirely depends on what you want to do . There are a bunch of app recommendation discussions here based around games , productivity , etc. . Rather than rehash them , I 'd suggest searching those out . 2 ) Plug it into a USB port on your computer . The phone also comes with a wall adapter for the USB cable so you can charge it from a wall socket . 3 ) Do n't stick it in the oven or the freezer and you should be fine .
Here are some references . I do n't have any personal experience with them . <URL> , April 22 , 2010 <URL> . A note there indicates that it is not yet compiled for Lion . <URL>
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
<URL> A physics-based puzzle game where you have to build structures with balls of Goo to accomplish various tasks . Has a very cool and weird , if a little dark , atmosphere to it .
If you have added a machine record ( e.g. server.example.com ) the primary zone example.com has been already created automagically . To view all records ( including your primary and the reverse zone ) click on the gear near the bottom of the window and choose ' View All Records ' .
The KeePass documentation in <URL> , although not specifically mentioning OS X , describes your issue : Clipboard : On some systems , Mono 's clipboard routines do n't work properly . In this case , install the xsel package . If is installed , KeePass ≥ 2.20 uses this utility for clipboard operations . So should help . ( is available from MacPorts ( <URL> ) . The source is available here : <URL> ) EDIT : But it does n't . I was curious so I compiled on my Mac . It did n't solve the issue with copy/paste ( tested with Portable KeePass 2.20.1 ) , as I feared , I must say . Why ? Because as stated here <URL> is a tool that manipulates the clipboard contents of X11 applications . X11 provides the graphical user interface for Linux and UNIX , but OS X uses Quartz instead , and so does Mono , as I realized ( see <URL> ) . There 's a workaround for copying username and password to clipboard , as explained in this thread <URL> : Ureka ( sic ) . Your 2.19 is on the path to copy paste working on the MAC via Mono ! Your button to copy the username , and your button to copy the password works now !!! The poster above refers to these buttons ( portable KeePass 2.20.1 shown running on Windows ( sorry , no Mac nearby ) ) : For copying the username : For copying the password : EDIT : I 'd like to share how I compiled in case somebody needs it on OS X : Install X11 from <URL> ( this only applies to OS X 10.8 " Mountain Lion " users ) . Symlink header and library files from to and from to ( alternatively you can symlink to and ) : Otherwise you will get lots of errors about files not found or missing symbols . I tried passing the non-standard X11 directories as an option to without success . Download from <URL> and extract , for example , to your Desktop . You need plus libraries . Install Xcode and then install the command line tools from Xcode > Preferences > Downloads > Components . Change directory , configure and compile : You can also install with MacPorts using the command . In my setup it also required the symlinks for the X11 libraries and header files and needed much longer to compile . I 'd also like to share some caveats when using KeePass on a Mac : KeePass 2.18 ( from <URL> ) has trouble with case-sensitive HFS + . is typed ( notice lowercase ' p ' ) in ( so that it silently fails ) . I had to use a USB flash drive formatted with case-insensitive HFS + and run KeePass from there . I had a lot of trouble getting KeePass 2.20.1 to work on OS X 10.8 " Mountain Lion " . It could n't get rid of the error message : I finally found the culprit : The release notes for version 2.20.1 state ( <URL> ) : Changes from 2.20 to 2.20.1 : On Unix-like systems , KeePass now stores most of its temporary files in a private temporary directory ( preferably in ) . According to <URL> : defines the base directory relative to which user-specific non-essential runtime files and other file objects ( such as sockets , named pipes , ... ) should be stored . The directory MUST be owned by the user ... was not set . I set it to a directory I owned and KeePass worked like a charm :
Go to System Preferences > Trackpad > Point &amp; Click and enable the " Look up " checkbox . You will then be able to do a with a three finger tap on the trackpad . See : <URL>
Apple Mail allows importing from . mbox files ( see the import option in the File menu ) . I do n't know how well it supports the other requirements you 've listed but it might be worth a try .
At the very least , make sure you sync your old one to your Mac before you sell it . When you sync , it should copy purchased items from your iPod to your Mac . If you have time , back up your iPod : Connect it to iTunes , then right-click ( or control-click ) and select Back Up . You can then restore your new iPod from that backup . This will restore your mail accounts , sync settings and app data to the new iPod . It will not restore the correct locations of your apps or home screen folder contents .
I would err on the side of caution and wipe any server that you see odd behavior on that was exposed to the public internet in general without a logging firewall and/or some sort of tripwire or security scan set up to compare what changed since installation . I think one of my OS X servers was compromised for the first time ever during this bash scripting vulnerability window . The time it would take me to search for a root kit is far longer than the time it took me to make one last backup and then wipe it from an external drive and start over . In my case , I had a new user named A Lo created as a standard user . Pretty odd and very un-subtle of someone that manages to gain control of a server with a fixed IP address . Basically , the more sophisticated black hat that has compromised your computer - the less likely you will notice it so from a reliability standpoint - if you notice instability it 's likely cause the people that have compromised your server are inept or sloppy and will cause you to eventually have to reinstall . Just to be clear , any server that 's hidden behind a router with NAT is far less vulnerable than a server running live services 24/7 with a real , static IPv4 and no firewall whatsoever . People that just run OS X should have no concerns at all unless they have other reasons to think they are compromised .
Yes , if they activated " Keychain " using another device you should change your passwords . Keep in mind that activating " Keychain " in the iCloud preferences should require you to confirm the device using another device . Please check to see how your account 's authentication is currently set up ( e.g. log out of your Apple ID on your Mac ( iCloud ) , turn on iCloud using your Apple ID and try to activate " Keychain " . Now your Mac should prompt you to activate Keychain using on of your other devices .
On your iPhone/iPad , go to Settings - > iCloud - > Storage and Backup - > Manage Storage . On your Mac , go into System preferences - > iCloud and click on the button labeled " Manage ... " to see an overview of the usage per app / service .
Well , basically the standard Firewall blocks incoming connections only . So as long as any network accesses are triggered by your Mac ( as in the case of clock synchronization or software downloads/updates ) , you can block all incoming connections . Once you have the firewall set up if you install anything that requires a connection you will be prompted to allow or deny that connection - so turning it on has little downside and lots of upside from a security standpoint .
end question
start question
In Aperture , is there a way to confirm faces in bulk ?
Instead of clicking on the " Confirm Faces " button , simply select all the photos that match ( using shift-click or any other method ) and then drag them to the space above the grey bar that says " John may also be in the photos below " . This has the affect of bulk confirming your selection as being John .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
I found this , and it works : Say you restore your iPhone with a full wipe and restore . Then you choose a previous backup to restore all of your settings and applications . When your iPhone is done restoring to your backup , all your icons are mixed up on the SpringBoard ... what the heck ? You want to get them back do n't you ? Well , I know a trick and I do n't think it 's documented anywhere . Here it goes . ** Important : Before starting these instructions , backup your iPhone . Then go into iTunes preferences and turn on " Disable automatic syncing for iPhones and iPods " This way your backup wo n't get overwritten after your iPhone gets restored . Restore your iPhone and let it restart and activate . Then iTunes will happily ask you if you want to restore from a previous backup ( with all of your settings and Applications ) . Click the backup you want to restore to and let it restore and reboot . ( Here 's where things get messed up . Your iPhone backup actually restored the correct icon positions except none of your apps were installed before the restore was complete , so iTunes has to copy all of your apps back to your iPhone . When it does this , it copys them in alphabetical order , thus messing up the location of all your 3rd party icons ) . Here 's how to fix this without memorizing where all your icons went . Right click ( or Control-click ) on the iPhone icon in iTunes and choose " Restore from Backup " and choose the backup you chose in step 2 again . Let your iPhone restore for a second time and when it reboots , all of your icons will be in their original places . ( This is because iTunes did n't have to install the Apps because they were already there , thus keeping them in their original locations according to the backup ) . Return your iTunes preferences and uncheck " Disable automatic syncing for iPhone and iPod "
There are two choices available right now : <URL> <URL> You should try both and see which matches your " taste " better :)
The keys h and j should respectively decrease and increase the delay .
It 's possible to do that with AppleScript . If you 're familiar with this technology , you should just browse iCal and Mail respective dictionary . If not , that 's the occasion to become familiar ! <URL> Here 's a very basic script you could use ( tested on Snow Leopard only , but should work fine on Lion as well ) : In order to use it easily in Mail , you should save it in ( create folders if they do n't exist ) and activates the Scripts menubar item in preferences of AppleScript Editor . Here 's the result when you 're in Mail : You can also use a productivity tool to launch your script . There are plenty of them out there but I personally use Keyboard Maestro &amp; Alfred . There 's a lot of room for improvement . By example , you could set a default alarm , insert it in a given calendar ... In order to improve it yourself , use the AppleScript dictionary : it 's the best reference you could find . However , those links may be useful as well , as they provide many examples ( some are maybe too old ) : <URL> &amp; <URL> .
It is not possible to manage the feeds inside <URL> . Nevertheless it will synchronize all changes made to feeds within Google Reader . So if you want to rename a feed , open the webpage of Google Reader and go to the preferences . In the prefs , choose the Abonnements tab ( at least this is the German headline ) and rename the feed . If you now head back to the Reeder.app and synchronize your feeds the changes will be reflected and the feed will be renamed . Please remember that this workaround will only work until July 1 , because Google is shutting down the Reader service .
I did n't find any way to modify the style of the selection , but you could use UI scripting to select a font from the format bar . You could assign shortcuts to the scripts with <URL> or by creating Automator services .
Depending on what you are trying to do with the link , it may be sufficient to drag it . If you click and drag a link in Safari , you can drop it in many places and get the desired functionality . For example , if you drop it in a text editor , it will drop the link URL ( for plain text ) or a formatted link using the title from the page . If you drop it on your desktop , you will get a webloc file . If you drop it on the Safari URL bar or tab , that tab will load the link . If you really need to copy the link , one possibility is to use spotlight as a easy-access text field . Start dragging the link , hit Command + space ( or whatever you have it set to ) to pop up spotlight , drop it in the search field , and copy .
While KeithB 's answer is correct , actually , <URL> in favor of the <URL> . Commands to be run via are described in Apple " plists " , or property lists , which are really just XML files : Having said that , it 's not a very user friendly ( nor Mac-like ) way of scheduling commands to be run . <URL> lists a few GUI alternatives , including : <URL> ( http://sourceforge.net/projects/lingon/ ) ( Free , may not work on 10.6 ) <URL> ( http://www.peterborgapps.com/lingon/ ) ( Not free , works on 10.6 ) <URL> ( $ 5 Shareware )
you are right changing the names may have unforeseen consequences later . You can make a new folder somewhere . Named Apps . Or what ever you want to name it . Then create alises to the applications Placing the aliases in the new folder . You can name the aliases what ever you like and have the new folder in the dock . 1 , Create the Aliases . Drag Applications to your new folder . They should automatically choose to be alias files because you are dragging from the Applications folder . The cursor should become a curved arrow while you are dragging . If not then hold down the alt + cmd keys to make the copies allies files . 2 , Now rename the alias files what ever you want . This will not affect the real files . I have just named some of them here 3 , Place the Folder in the Dock . And now when you go to it the Alias file will look like the real apps . Have your names and open the real apps . You can Also just place any of the Alias files directly on the Dock .
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
You can not set the application priority ( to remain in the RAM ) . Your system automatically manages the resources based on current usage . However , depending on your Reminders settings , and what external ( Internet ) accounts you use , it might take a moment for it to check those accounts .
That is not possible . By design there is a mechanical switch inside the headphone jack that will automatically turn off the speakers .
Try <URL> ( <URL> ) . It has convenient toggles in Notification Center and Apple Watch .
I use Hazel with an applescript to keep my filename extensions hidden . Hazel is just a way to make sure that anytime I create a new file , the applescript gets run on it . The applescript is pretty easy -- you can see all three lines of it in the screenshot below . I also like to set the color labels by file type , thus the selection of only PDFs and the red color labels . You can skip both of those if you like . Just to be clear , you do n't need to use Hazel . You could use folder actions or an automator workflow to initiate the applescript on the files you want to change .
After seeing @Lri 's answer I discovered that my original service would work in the Finder as long as I was n't in column view . Since that 's the view that I use most of the time , I decided to see if I could get @Lir 's basic solution working without the need for an external application . Here 's what I did : Open Automator and choose " Service " from the options of what to make . Set " Service receives " to " no input " and " in " to " Finder.app " . Drop a " Run AppleScript " action onto the main window . Drop the code @Lri provided into place so you end up with : Save the action as " Open via TextMate " . Under " System Preferences " - > " Keyboard " - > " Keyboard Shortcuts " - > " Services " - > " General " add my preferred shortcut to the " Open vie TextMate " item . This works in all my Finder views ( including column view ) for Mac OS X 10.7.3 and TextMate 1.5.10 .
No . The only way to speed up iTunes is to get a faster PC or Mac . It 's a bloated program with a lot of legacy code in it . It 's been needing a complete overhaul for years now ( even on the Mac ) . And as time passes , it just seems to get bigger as more is continually added . With that said , the speed of iTunes is dependent on your Internet connection but it 's also dependent on the power of your PC . Having broadband allows data to transfer quickly from Apple 's servers but crunching all that data requires CPU cycles and a lot of RAM too .
You can download the Display Menu app from the <URL> I use it all the time . Best of all - it is free !
The power adapter is required for closed display mode on any Apple portable machine , without it you ca n't use closed display mode . Reference : <URL> There is however a third party solution , called Caffine . Which when enabled , forces the mac to stay on until the battery dies , it wo n't ever sleep . <URL>
end question
start question
Can Apple 's Notes handle pictures pasted from Clipboard ?
The answer to your question is yes , sort of . Notes in Mac OS can handle pictures either dragged in or pasted in from the clipboard . I did n't know this would work but just tried it and it worked perfectly . My Notes syncs with both my iPad and iPhone through iCloud . In iOS the image pasted into a note on my Mac is represented by a paper clip and deleting that paper clip on an iOS device does not seem to delete the picture on Mac OS even after sync , so it does n't work quite as well as I 'd like with iCloud and iOS but works fine with Mac OS . My guess is this capability is going to be expanded in a future version of notes and this is a place marker .
Time Machine allows you to backup multiple macs to one drive . You just plug it in , set it up , and you 're good . If you look at the file system , you can see separate backups for both computers . At our home we currently do this with a Mac Mini and a MacBook . The Mac Mini is always plugged in , and the MacBook gets updated every couple weeks . We use a 1.5 TB drive from Western Digital . Given your description , I think this solution with your 2TB drive should work well for you . The data backed up by both macs will not be the same , as no matter how hard you try , both computers will wind up having subtile differences , so the data wo n't be " exactly " the same . Backing up only one system does n't seem ideal to me , but you can restore a MacBook from a Mac Mini backup . It works fine . Also , you realize that the drive must be connected for you to access the photos and music that you have stored there . You 'll have to factor that into your storage solution .
You can set Floating Window as the default behavior for all new stickies , but for existing stickies you will need to set this value one-by-one . To set the default : On one sticky ( any sticky ) , click Note from the menu bar and set " Floating Window " and/or " Translucent Window " to checked . Then select " Use as Default " from the same menu . All new stickies will have the new settings . You can turn these off on a sticky-by-sticky basis , or you can re-set the defaults using the these instructions .
<URL> seems to be quite nice . It is available at the App Store . iUnarchive can be used to preview and extract files from archives . Instead of cluttering the disk with files , you can preview and open files directly from within iUnarchive . Only files selected for preview and extracted files are actually uncompressed . Supported archives include zip , rar , 7-zip , tar , gzip , bz2/BZip2 , LhA and StuffIt , including password protection for zip , 7-zip , rar and multi part rar . Edit : Not sure if you looked for a free application . It costs 4 Euro now ( I think it was free before ) .
You can use an Automator workflow to download images embedded in a web page , or images linked from a web page . A good starting point for a workflow is : Get Current Webpage from Safari Get Image URLs from Webpage Download URLs You can change the workflow to use a list of web pages to fetch from . Automator is included with Mac OS X in the folder .
You might be out of luck if you do not have the originals , as you know now the 2010 was compressing the pictures . First save the picture to hard drive and open it with something like iPhoto . If you like the quality there we can continue . If you do not like the quality it is the end of the road , no advanced settings will help here . You could report the picture file size here , like is it in 500k - 1Meg , or more or less than 100k . In second case your only option is to keep the picture size as small as possible to retain the quality ( resolution ) . EDIT : If the pictures look good in original presentation then lets try this . Do not copy paste . Use presentation mode ( full screen ) and make a screenshot ( press cmd + shift +4 ) . You will get a cursor allowing you to select the picture. , and once you have done that it will save it . Now take look at that result first , and if happy then import it in to power point .
Yes , <URL> : iCloud Security iCloud secures your content by encrypting it when sent over the Internet , storing it in an encrypted format , and using secure tokens for authentication . Encrypting content that is sent over the Internet The following content is encrypted using SSL ( Secure Sockets Layer ) when sent over the Internet to or from iCloud : Photos in your Photo Stream Documents in the Cloud Backup data for your iOS device ...
There is a second clipboard in OS X , called the kill-ring . Press Control ^ + K to " kill " ( copy ) the rest of the current line to the kill-ring , and Control ^ + Y to " yank " ( paste ) it .
I have now gone ahead and clicked " Update All Contacts " for Facebook . Here are my empirical findings : After about 30s it said 405 contacts updated I examined my contacts and could see Some contacts on that iPad got photos from Facebook No existing photos were overridden . On lots of contacts a " Facebook " entry was created . I guess this indicates that they are my friends on facebook . When I click such an entry , the Facebook app opens . However , it opens on the standard newsfeed . It does not open anything connected to that particular person . Is this a bug ? No photos were synced to Google or other iDevices . The photos did not appear in Google Contacts . They did not even appear on other iDevices set up syncing with Google Contacts . ( I did the update on an iPad and my iPhone was not updated ) . The " Facebook " entry was updated on other iDevices . I could not find any evidence that any new contact cards were created . No new Google Contacts were created . I do have some Facebook friends that were not in contacts , and they did not show up in contacts afters " Update All Contacts " .
The notes created in OS X can be found in Google Inbox under unbundled label " Notes " . If you create a folder with [ name ] in OS X Notes app , the notes will be synced to Google Inbox unbundled label " Notes/name " .
There 's a comprehensive <URL> at MacRumors , which provides the average product cycle lengths ( and date of latest product update ) .
The short version : Original iPad , no . iPad 2 , yes . The details also matter for some features , per <URL> : There 's also the device specific features fine print : Turn-by-turn navigation is available only on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , and iPad 2 or later with cellular data capability . Flyover is available only on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , iPad 2 or later , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) . Siri is available on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , iPad ( 3rd generation ) , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) and requires Internet access . FaceTime video calling requires a FaceTime-enabled device for the caller and recipient and a Wi-Fi connection . FaceTime over a cellular network requires iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , or iPad ( 3rd generation ) with cellular data capability . Offline Reading List is available on iPhone 4 or later and iPad 2 or later . Made for iPhone hearing aids require iPhone 4S or iPhone 5 . Panorama is available on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) .
Syncing the notes to your computer , then moving the notes to your email notes and letting it sync back to the phone would be the easiest . Without syncing you could email each note to yourself by clicking the envelope icon at the bottom of each note . Then turn it into a note in your email account , of course this would take a long time but you would n't have to sync with your computer .
Apple 's bug database is private , and as you see , you are only able to review the bugs that you submit . This has been the subject of much debate in the Apple developer community . <URL> is an attempt to shed light on bugs that participating developers file . It uses the same ID numbers as the real Bug Reporter system , so if the bug referred to is in Open Radar , you should be able to find it by its ID .
If I understand your request correctly , <URL> might be right up your alley . It allows you to assign custom abbreviations to text snippets and graphics for insertion anywhere .
There are two choices available right now : <URL> <URL> You should try both and see which matches your " taste " better :)
Well , two trips to the genius bar could n't solve it ( " you need to start a new library from scratch and retag your 15,000 photos " - WHAT ?!?! ) , but I dug around and experimented and finally came up with the answer : iTunes wo n't sync pictures without up-to-date previews ; so , if they stop auto-generating for some reason , you have to force it to update previews for the pictures that are n't syncing . You may want to go to iTunes and select " Sync all Photos " and note the number of photos that appears in the upper right of the window , so you can make sure that it 's higher after this process . Go to Aperture and select " Photos " up near the top of your library , in order to select your whole library of pics . In the " Photos " menu up top , you should see " update previews for library " . ( If you 're not seeing it , you probably skipped step 2 , or selected an individual photo , in which case , it will be replaced with " update preview " . You want to do it for everything , so be sure to highlight " photos " first . That may take some time , depending how many you were missing , but once it 's done , go back to iPhoto , and uncheck " sync all photos " and then recheck it . That should force it to recount the pics , and you should now see a number that matches your library ( less any in a format that iTunes ca n't handle . )
Nevermind , I managed to get it working following the advise of another <URL> on the Apple forums ; namely : Same thing happend to me on my 3gs , i went to Settings ... iCloud ... Delete Account then signed in again to add it . The iCloud inbox was displayed afterwards . This also fixed the problem of notes , which now show up properly on the notes application .
The feature description is a bit misleading . It appears that by " close Notes " , Apple means " close the main Notes window " , not " close the Notes app " , which ( not surprisingly ) leaves other windows open . In fact , the context menu refers to the main Notes window as Notes : So what Apple 's description basically means : Even if you close Notes , the note stays open on your desktop . = You do n't need to use the overview window at all times . You can use similar to By the way , is still available in Mountain Lion and has been upgraded to version 9.0 .
Notes are stored locally without limit other than storage space on the iOS device . They <URL> and there is a web app for viewing / editing the notes . They do count towards your 5 GB of free iCloud storage that you get by virtue of operating an iOS device . Should you need more storage than that , you can pay yearly . If you do n't sync the notes to the cloud , then that limit is not in effect . Whether or not you sync with iCloud , the notes are stored locally on the iPad .
end question
start question
How do I type š on an international keyboard ?
Right Option ( Alt ) v s You must have U.S. Extended keyboard layout enabled for the above to work .
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
You can use the <URL> tool on the executable file inside the MyApp.app package . After downloading the . zip file , to compile the binary go to Terminal and enter ( or wherever you extracted the zip file ) , then enter . Next enter . Next find my MyApp.app in Finder . Then type , type a space , and then drag MyApp.app into the Terminal , and push enter . Then enter . Next enter . Now your app no longer has a signature . When users try to open it , they will get an " Unidentified Developer " message . Therefore tell them to right-click on it and select " Open " to be able to open it .
The latest Mac models with either Thunderbolt or Mini DisplayPort ca n't directly output composite/S-Video ( older Macs with micro-DVI could do this when using the <URL> ) . Therefore you need a converter box ( powered via USB or separate power supply ) that takes a VGA signal and converts it to composite or S-Video , which can be connected to the TV . You need to get one that can supply the correct video signal for your TV ( PAL/NTSC/SECAM ) , although most will support all of those . <URL> are available in a wide price range - generally the more expensive , the better the quality ( of the signal ) . You will also need a <URL> to get a VGA signal from your Mac ( this also works with the Thunderbolt MBP ) . For the computer with DVI output you will hopefully have a graphics card that can output a VGA signal , in which case you merely need a <URL> . If it outputs only DVI , you 're in trouble , as you 'll need another converter that converts this digital signal to a VGA one . Alternatively you could get a USB graphics card that outputs TV signals directly , although I ca n't seem to find one right now . This would be act like an additional monitor , which may be preferable . In case your TV has SCART inputs ( Europe mostly ) instead of composite/S-video , you 'll also need a <URL> , although this may be included with some of the products mentioned above . The whole setup would look like this :
In System Preferences , go to Keyboard " Keyboard Shortcuts " Services Find the service on the list . To the right of the service name , double-click . Enter the desired shortcut .
There is zTools on the App store , like 99 cents , will do Ping , Trace , Whois , Port scan , etc. . Maybe this is what you 're looking for ? This is the only one I know because I have it , perhaps there is other , similar apps on the store .
I just figured this out . All I had to do was drag the folder containing the apps to the Launchpad icon on the dock .
You can change Modifier Key Assignment from System Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard > Modifier Keys ... <URL>
Check in the menubar - > View - > Previous Document/Next Document . The shortcut for Previous Document seems to be altcmd [ and for Next Document altcmd ] on an US-keyboard . On my ( german ) keyboard I use altcmd5 and altcmd6 though .
Try this AppleScript : For some reason , the tilde does n't work in the path , so you have to enter your home folder . Since you want to assign that to a shortcut , download <URL> which enables you to assign shortcuts to AppleScripts . Hope this helps ! UPDATE : You can alternatively make an Automator service to run the Applescript . Open Automator and select Service On the left-side menu , select Utilities . In Utilities , drag and drop the " Run Applescript " action into your workflow Copy the applescript above into the " Run Applescript " action Save
If you are very lucky it is just dirt and can be wiped off but usually it is permanent and there is n't much way to avoid them . I have seen it happen even when a soft cloth is used to cover the keys when the lid is closed . In fact that may even make it worse as the cloth adds thickness to the sandwich and may make the contact between the high points of the screen and the keys firmer . The screen surface of an anti-glare display just is n't very hard - glossy glass is harder but can still be marked . Using a quality micro fibre cloth with a 70 % water/30 % isopropyl alcohol solution is a good way to clean the marks off if they are not permanent . I have been using the cleaning solution provided by my optician for my glasses for years with no ill effects , and I love the iKlear blue microfibre cloths ( for both glasses and displays ) . They call it " terry " as opposed to their " chamois " cloth .
Right Option ( Alt ) v s You must have U.S. Extended keyboard layout enabled for the above to work .
The problem was actually a bug in Remote Desktop for OS X , and has been fixed in 8.0.15 , which was released a few days ago . Now the keyboard works completely as expected with both my Mac and the Windows computer configured with Norwegian keyboard layout .
In all cases I have tested , iOS recognizes epub files and will offer to send them directly to iBooks . I have tested this from the email all , dropbox app as well as mobile safari . Other apps like Evernote and AirSharing also are able to receive my epub files , so if you are not able to do this , perhaps it 's an encoding issue or something about how the files are being attached to the emails and not necessarily a problem with iOS .
Add it to the Press &amp; Hold character picker You can add it to a letter 's Press &amp; Hold character picker . Navigate to . Backup the file . Append the following to the file ( before the closing ) . Feel free to change the to any character you wish , providing it does not already have Press &amp; Hold keys assigned . If you wish to use a character with an existing Press &amp; Hold set , you can append the to the relevant lines for that character .
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
Install QT 7 from <URL> and open your movie with QT7 . Then open Preferences and select Fullscreen tab and click on your second display . Update : Movist is a great player . You can get it from here : <URL>
⌘ Command + ` will cycle between windows of the current application when using i.a. US keyboard .
On an American English keyboard you can type the European Currency symbol ( $ ) with Option + Shift + 2 .
From the menu bar select System Preferences Select the Keyboard Icon Select the Keyboard tab Select the " Show Keyboard &amp; Character Viewers in menu bar " check box . From the menu bar select either the Character or Keyboard viewer . <URL>
end question
start question
What does System Preferences > iCloud > Mail do ?
This is the iCloud Mail service . Turning it on provides the iCloud mail account for Mail.app to use , nothing more . It is basically an automated method of entering the iCloud mail server information into Mail.app to configure your @icloud . com email account , per this Apple KB article : <URL> It does not sync other accounts in any way - settings or emails of other accounts are not affected by this setting , just your @icloud . com or @me . com account . You can read more about iCloud Mail at this Apple KB article : <URL>
Look for the " Stand " menu to appear between the " Window " and " Help " menus in your top menu bar .
This is Clear key . From <URL> : A Clear key , instead of a Num Lock key , on models with full numeric keypads , as these are dedicated to numeric input and not generally used for cursor control . In Unicode , the Clear key is represented by U +2327 ⌧ x in a rectangle box , defined as " clear key " Here are some Stack answers about the usage : <URL>
Not sure what the ' preparing ' stage actually does . I suspect it could have something to do with verifying that the destination does n't have files/folders that are present in the source ( leading to it having to ask you what to do about the conflict ) . In either case , if you are comfortable with terminal , you can use rsync which begins copying immediately and gives you feedback right away . I would use something like : rsync -- partial -- progress - av ~ / Desktop/MyFolder / Volumes/MyTimeCapsule / Good luck !
Mail.app uses more than one approach to junk mail . Some spam gets reported by other users . You can forward your junk mail to spam@icloud.com and it gets added to Apple 's filtering system . Mail servers sometimes mark messages as spam . When a tool like spam assassin has marked an incoming message as junk , Mail.app respects that and passes it to the junk folder automatically . Mail.app also supports custom filters . You can make your own filters that will direct junk mail into the junk folder .
You do n't specify how old your MBP is , but some MBPs built a few years ago shipped with graphics cards that fatally crashed after a few years of years . That 's what happened to mine and it was a warranty fix because a recall was done . My understanding of the chime is that it is hard-coded into the motherboard . If it is not playing with the chime , then you probably have something wrong down to that level . It may be a simple fix , it may not , but only Apple will be able to tell you definitively . ( Answer edited per comments )
Wake for wifi network access ( aka Wake on Demand but with Wifi ) allows your computer to be brought out of sleep mode when someone else on the network requests access to a service on your computer eg . File sharing . From this <URL> Wake on Demand helps you save energy and reduce costs while still ensuring full access to all your shared files and devices , even remotely across the Internet . Wake on Demand works by partnering with a service running on your AirPort Base Station or Time Capsule called Bonjour Sleep Proxy . When Wake on Demand is enabled , any Mac on your network running OS X will automatically register itself and its shared items with the Bonjour Sleep Proxy . When a request is made to access a shared item on a Mac running OS X , the Bonjour Sleep Proxy asks that Mac to wake and handle the request . Once that request is complete , the Mac will go back to sleep at its regularly-scheduled interval as set in the Computer Sleep section of the Energy Saver preferences pane .
There is an easy way to do that right in Gmail . In the settings tab , go to settings and first add a forwarding address under Forwarding and POP/IMAP . Enter the desired forwarding address and confirm it by entering the confirmation code or clicking on the confirmation link . Then go to the Filters and Blocked Addresses tab in settings . On the bottom of the page choose " create a new filter " . In the first line enter the email from the certain sender that you would like to forward , then click on " Create filter with this search " , which will bring you to the next page . Here check the " Forward it to : choose an address " box , and choose the address . That should do it . Gmail has great filters for mails Hope this is helpful , might not be Automator or applescript , but it 's right inside gmail , fast and easy ... cheers
You can find that information in the They will open in TextEdit , but hard to read . So you might need to <URL> for help with Plist readers . you can also see the plist changes in the : Console ( by typing pref in the search window ) While the Console is up to the moment reporting it will only report issues not the successful execution .
Apple implements tethering , so if your app proxies TCP/IP traffic directly , you will probably run afoul of several aspects of the review process . Clearly , if your app is doing things to add value to the network you 'll likely have more legs to stand on that your app is n't just the same implementation as carrier tethering : linking IOT type devices speak protocols other than just TCP/IP allow filtering , reporting , proxy , QOS controls Like all app submissions , your milage may vary . You can do the work and take your chances or you can line up a big customer and sell the app B2B style if you are worried about Apple deciding to pass on your app .
As in all the Unix system , there are two type of folder . One specific for the user and the other for the entire system and so all the users of the machine . In particular for OS X : the Macintosh HD version is the actual computer Library , while , the home folder version is specific to your user account . Here an example to help you understand how to use it : is a place to store fonts , screen savers , Dashboard widgets , and all other things that all local users need access to . is for your own user account only ( cache and preference files , widgets for your use only , etc ) . EDIT : taken from <URL> , a complete overview of all the possible library folders in a Mac OS X system : The user library , ~ / Library , stores per-user settings etc. . The local library , / Library , stores computer-wide settings etc. . I call this the " local " library , because in NextStep it was / Local/Library , but you 'll see all sorts of other names for it , such as the root library , computer library , ... The network library , / Network/Library would store settings shared by all computers in a network domain -- if a network domain admin set one up , which nobody does anymore ... The system library , / System/Library , stores the base settings , resources , etc that come with OS X . In theory , you should n't change anything in here .
Moving the message to the Spam folder will mark it as spam on the gmail server as well as moving it to the spam folder .
I figured this out . One of the spotlight plugins was causing errors , which closer scrutiny of the Console log revealed . I found out which app was causing the problem by looking in There I found several crash reports from mdworker ( the backend to Spotlight ) . All crashes were caused by the same app plugin . I have now deleted that plugin from my system .
The Image Capture application can do this for you . Just connect your printer and launch the application . It comes with OS X. Image borrowed from : <URL> . You can also find instructions there under the heading How to scan .
Update : Apple now allows you to share your Photo Stream with others . More info on the official Photo Stream page <URL> At the moment no . The only way to access your stream is from a Lion Machine using either iPhoto or Aperture , or from another iOS 5.0 device with Photo Stream enabled . I am not entirely sure if Apple is going to allow a sharing portal , however at the moment I take the images I want to share and upload them to Flickr through iPhoto once they are in my Photo Stream . I suspect they currently use Photo Stream as a personal backup and sharing solution between devices , and not global sharing .
Just type this command into Terminal . With zero arguments it 'll print the names and values of variables in the environment . Alternative with a bit more typing :
The iBooks app on iOS as well as OS X Mavericks uses the account you use to sign into the iBooks Store for syncing bookmarks , notes , collections , highlights and purchased books . So if you share an Apple ID/iTunes Store Account for purchases from the iBooks Store , then the sync will affect all the users who share the account . The iBooks sync is not based on one 's individual iCloud account , which is used for iMessage , FaceTime , Mail , Calendar , etc. . See <URL> for more information .
Yes , if they activated " Keychain " using another device you should change your passwords . Keep in mind that activating " Keychain " in the iCloud preferences should require you to confirm the device using another device . Please check to see how your account 's authentication is currently set up ( e.g. log out of your Apple ID on your Mac ( iCloud ) , turn on iCloud using your Apple ID and try to activate " Keychain " . Now your Mac should prompt you to activate Keychain using on of your other devices .
As Robin says , most people would go for OS X Server , because it has tools specifically built to do just this , providing you bind the clients to LDAP . Aside from that , OS X is designed hierarchically . You could try just adding the desired . plist files in / Library/Preferences instead of ~ / Library/Preferences and then deleting said files , if they already exist , from ~ / Library/Preferences ( since files in ~ / Library generally override those in / Library ) There is also the default " User Template " hiding in the System Folder , from which all new users ' home folders are created . You could edit this , but the change would only affect accounts created after the imaged machines have their first boot .
Edit : If you 're connecting an Exchange account or to a Google calendar via the Exchange setting , the Second Alert option is not available , because these systems do not support a second alert . If you are not connecting via the Exchange setting you can access the Second Alert like this : On your iPhone , start Calendar . Navigate to the day that has your event . Select the event , which brings up the Event Details . Click the Edit button . Scroll down until you see Alert . If the event does not already have an alert , it will say " none " and you click " none " to add an alert . Once the event has an alert , you will see a new entry just below it called Second Alert . It will say " none " and just like the first alert , you can click on it to add another alert .
end question
start question
Do the current Apple USB Keyboards support charging the iPad ?
Yes , but only with the iPad in sleep mode . The iPad requires at least 500mA from a USB port : Apple peripheral devices may request more than 500 mA ( Milliamps ) at 5 V ( Volts ) from a port to function or to allow for faster charging . Such Apple peripheral devices include : iPad iPhone Alluminum Wired Keyboard * About wired keyboard we get the information : * When connected to a computer that supports a connection of 1100 mA at 5 V , the first port on the keyboard to have a device or peripheral connected to it that requests standard 500mA power will receive that power . At that point , 100 mA at 5 V is available through the remaining port on this keyboard . This keyboard does not support extra power out of its two ports simultaneously ; it requests extra power from the host computer to provide power out of either one of its two ports , then the second keyboard port receives the standard 500mA . Note : Apple computers and displays that were introduced before 2007 support only 500 mA at 5 V from their ports and do not offer additional power . [ <URL> ] As the wired keyboards can provide the minimum 500mA required by the iPad ( just like older Macs can ) , it should be possible for it to power the iPad . However , it can not provide an additional current which would allow for faster charging . But , the new iPad can only charge in sleep mode when connected to a low powered USB hub : The fastest way to charge your iPad is with the included 10W USB Power Adapter . iPad will also charge , although more slowly , when attached to a computer with a high-power USB port ( many recent Mac computers ) or with an iPhone Power Adapter . When attached to a computer via a standard USB port ( most PCs or older Mac computers ) iPad will charge , but only when it 's in sleep mode . Make sure your computer is on while charging iPad via USB . If iPad is connected to a computer that 's turned off or is in sleep or standby mode , the iPad battery will continue to drain . [ <URL> ]
I would really go with <URL> , I can say from experience that It will allow you to use check boxes , radio buttons etc. . You would be able to export a Google doc to an excel file and then open in numbers . If you do choose to export a Google Doc file into an excel file you could also use dropbox to open and edit it in another office based app , with that you may be able to use checks and radio buttons , as long as they already exist in the doc . A very good solution is <URL> You can also try a lot of other free office tools such as <URL>
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
Do this : Remove the " Speak text " action . Add the " Run AppleScript " action . Clear all the default text in the action . Copy/paste this script in the action : If you want a specific voice , append after the command . Example :
My new Mac Pro has 6 " USB " busses , 12Mb/s , and two " USB High Speed " busses . 480 Mb/s . One of the " USB " busses shows Bluetooth on it , but none of the others seem to be in use . The external connectors belong to the two " High Speed " busses . Buss 0xfd has one of the front and two of the back connectors . Buss 0xfa has one of the front and one of the back connectors .
Yes , but only with the iPad in sleep mode . The iPad requires at least 500mA from a USB port : Apple peripheral devices may request more than 500 mA ( Milliamps ) at 5 V ( Volts ) from a port to function or to allow for faster charging . Such Apple peripheral devices include : iPad iPhone Alluminum Wired Keyboard * About wired keyboard we get the information : * When connected to a computer that supports a connection of 1100 mA at 5 V , the first port on the keyboard to have a device or peripheral connected to it that requests standard 500mA power will receive that power . At that point , 100 mA at 5 V is available through the remaining port on this keyboard . This keyboard does not support extra power out of its two ports simultaneously ; it requests extra power from the host computer to provide power out of either one of its two ports , then the second keyboard port receives the standard 500mA . Note : Apple computers and displays that were introduced before 2007 support only 500 mA at 5 V from their ports and do not offer additional power . [ <URL> ] As the wired keyboards can provide the minimum 500mA required by the iPad ( just like older Macs can ) , it should be possible for it to power the iPad . However , it can not provide an additional current which would allow for faster charging . But , the new iPad can only charge in sleep mode when connected to a low powered USB hub : The fastest way to charge your iPad is with the included 10W USB Power Adapter . iPad will also charge , although more slowly , when attached to a computer with a high-power USB port ( many recent Mac computers ) or with an iPhone Power Adapter . When attached to a computer via a standard USB port ( most PCs or older Mac computers ) iPad will charge , but only when it 's in sleep mode . Make sure your computer is on while charging iPad via USB . If iPad is connected to a computer that 's turned off or is in sleep or standby mode , the iPad battery will continue to drain . [ <URL> ]
Developer of <URL> here . Yes , there 's a very easy way : ⌘ + L ( That 's " Command - L " ) That will temporarily " show " the toolbar ( if it was hidden ) , and select all the text in the URL location field . From there you can copy it , via ⌘ + C. Then , to hide the toolbar , you can press : ⎋ esc ( That 's " Escape " ) If the toolbar was previously hidden , this will hide the toolbar .
As of now , no . However , like you 've mentioned it has been highly rumoured to see support for third party keyboards in the near future .
According to <URL> : For the quickest charge , connect the device to a power outlet using the USB cable that came with the device and an Apple USB power adapter . The USB spec limits the amount of current that a device may draw from a USB port ( 500 mA ) ; the included Apple standalone power adapter can supply double that ( 1 A ) . The difference is even more dramatic for devices that have higher current draw to recharge ( newer model iPads , for example ) . Generally speaking , charging from your computer wo n't affect the performance of your computer at all as long as you are n't syncing or otherwise interacting with the device . USB can supply power without requiring data transmission ( such is the case for wall adapters ) .
In addition to the aluminium vs stainless steel case , The Apple Watch has a <URL> cover as opposed to the Apple Watch Sport 's <URL> cover . In addition , there are more options for bands that can be used with Apple Watch . Specifically , while the <URL> is sold just with the Sport band , the <URL> is available with the Sport Band , the Classic Buckle , the Milanese Loop , the Leather Loop , the Link Bracelet , and the Modern Buckle . However , you can purchase any band to go with your watch as every band will fit every watch . In effect , you can get the Apple Watch Sport model and then purchase the Milanese Loop to wear with it . Changing bands on all models is easy .
This sounds like a bug in the power management software and I can not reproduce the issue with my current MacBook Air . Have you been watching the power settings with the command ? The command might show you something to help debug why this is happening . Worst case , you can have a few tabs open in terminal and watch and to see if some program is somehow overriding the defaults that you have set . These logs and the timings would also make for a good bug report if you determined that it was simply an error in programming on Apple 's part .
I know of no device that is sold to act as a write block that also allow full 1A charging , but <URL> might help you if you wanted a DIY hardware solution for the older 30 pin USB connectors . In the mean time , you have several ways to secure the data without needing a custom piece of hardware . Lock your iOS device with a passcode before connecting it . <URL> . You could go a step further and be ready to power off the device as soon as it 's connected - shortening the window for the OS to be available to the charging station . The devices will still charge and should n't wake up unless it detects a disconnect/reconnect of the USB cord . Be careful to not establish trust with unknown chargers and computers by tapping when prompted by iOS 7 . Furthermore , if you upgrade to iOS 7 , anytime you connect to a computer which could potentially read your data , you are alerted to this fact rather than having the device share all data because it 's not locked with a passcode . This <URL> prevents any access to your device 's storage without a positive user step to allow that access . The device wo n't talk data to the " charging station " until the passcode is entered on the touchscreen . ( Or the astronomically unlikely but theoretically possible chance that the charging station provides the one and only unique to you secure certificate generated and stored on your primary iTunes computer . ) The charging station ca n't try entering passwords one by one - so it 's not like you are at more risk by charging an hour versus 2 minutes .
If it says it is compatible with iPad , it is compatible with the iPad 1 , iPad 2 , theoretically the iPhone 4/S . I have it .
so I figured this out . First of , SD card and USB flash drive use different kernel in OS X , so the solution is not universal . Fist of , if you use USB flash drive : In your terminal type Type your password ( use an admin account ) , then What this does is that it unload and reload the USB storage kernel extension system wise , so it is an equivalent of unplug and replug your USB storage device after the ejection . Similarly , we can do that with SD card reader too ! Type : Tada ! Be careful tho , once you unload the kernel and forget to reload the kernel , you will not be able to read the device at all even if you physically unplug and plugin the device .
<URL> are universal . So , once you have the IEEE standard used , you should be able to resolder a new connector with no problem . In this case , the USB connector used on the <URL> is a USB v1 .1 connector . <URL> I have included the pinouts for USB 1.1 / 2.0 below for reference . <URL> Short of that , I am sure you could use the <URL> on a multi-meter on a USB cable to figure out which pin goes where
Sadly there is no led light for when it is charging it only vibrates/shows a picture of a battery
<URL> ' <URL> and <URL> stereo USB microphones can be used in any recording app on the iPad via the Camera Connection Kit . The manufacturer confirms that this is possible , and has detailed directions for setting it up ( including a video ) on <URL> . Note that you will need a powered USB hub .
Yes it is possible but it will not be easy . You will probably need to jailbreak your iPad and follow similar procedures when installing Android .
I do n't believe so . The available API for battery state in iOS gives you only 5 % resolution . It might be possible to write an app that polls battery state and calculates a rate of charge based on the time between 5 % intervals but I do n't know of any apps that do this . If you want to get your app on the app store that 's about the best way of measuring it directly . I know of an app that captures the screen and looks at the battery charge image to determine charge an alternative way but that 's iffy , the size or appearance of the battery indicator might change between versions and then it breaks . Jailbroken devices are a whole other can of worms . I know how to get 1 % resolution on devices with a private API but you ca n't get such an app on the store so distribution is going to be limited . BTW your terminology is a bit confusing . " Current " would be the right term , less commonly " amperage " . I had to read a couple of times through to work it out , I thought you were talking about music volume at first .
All iPhones and iPods with the Lightning connector use USB 2.0 . <URL> : The Lightning connector ... provides an interface to USB 2.0 ( for data and charging ) Also , if you look the USB end of a Lightning cable , it does n't have the additional pins for USB 3.0 . There is actually no point to having USB 3.0 , since the flash memory in iPods and iPhones is not fast enough to benefit from its speed .
end question
start question
Is an admin password enough to protect my files ?
In general , no - setting an admin password is not enough to keep your files safe . If someone has possession of your MBP , it is pretty easy for them to change your account password , and then access any of your unencrypted files . Your keychain is safe , since it can not be unlocked without the original password . FileVault 2 ( Full Disk Encryption ) does not make much of an impact on speed . If security is a concern , it is worth implementing .
Go to settings > iTunes &amp; App Stores > Apple ID : Select sign out , that will clear your stored password ... Then you can enter the proper information .
Go to Settings - > Safari - > General , Authorise yourself and try to update your password there .
You can change it by first selecting the DMG in Disk Utilty . Then go to Images > Change Password . It will prompt you for the password . Then , it 'll ask you for a new password for the DMG .
It depends on how you have defined the shortcut keys . The files responsible for storing these preferences are in the usual place : ~ / Library/Preferences You could simply move the files that store the preferences over to the new Mac : com.apple.symbolichotkeys.plist com.apple.universalaccess.plist com.apple.iWork.Keynote.plist com.apple.iWork.Pages.plist If you were good at parsing JSON or XML , you could do the export to a text file as well using <URL> .
Generally , it does not affect , but there are some apps that do n't properly work when you do it . The only way to know is trying it . In the worst case , you can revert the changes without issues . About accessing keychain , same thing , usually you wo n't have problems . I have n't tested auto-update . I usually did it with old versions of apps , to have both old and new ones .
I solved this by creating a separate iPhoto Library and storing that Library within a password-protected encrypted sparse image . ( You create sparse images using Disk Utility . ) I 've appended a step-by-step tutorial to the end of this answer . I then created an alias to the private library and stored that alias in my Pictures folder alongside my regular libraries . To open the private Library , double click on the alias icon . You will be prompted for a password so that the encrypted image can mount on the desktop . When you 're done , be sure to " eject " the disk image . iPhoto defaults to opening the last Library opened so if you want the program to open the " regular " file next time , go ahead and open that Library . ( You can either double click it 's Library icon or open iPhoto while holding down the Option key . ) I 've just developed the habit of opening iPhoto using the appropriate Library icon from my Pictures folder . The disadvantage of this method is that you ca n't mix " private " images into your iPhone sync and it 's possible that leaving iPhoto with the wrong " default " library could interfere with an iOS sync . ( I use Aperture for my main photo collection/iOS sync anyway , so I have n't fully explored this . ) Creating an encrypted , Password-Protected iPhoto Library -- Step-by-Step The reality is that many of us have pictures we want to keep but do n't necessarily want to share with partners , children or grandparents . What happens at Burning Man stays at Burning Man . Right ? To keep those pictures from prying eyes -- and inadvertant display on your big screen TV via AppleTV -- I advocate using a separate iPhoto library for your private pictures and protecting that library by storing it inside an encyrpted container . I 'm keying this tutorial to Mac OS X 10.7 Lion and iPhoto '11 ( current at time of writing ) but this system will work for previous versions of the software . ( To a point -- the encrypted disk image was added to the OS in 10.3 . ) You can use this method to safeguard Aperture libraries as well . Open your existing iPhoto Library and select the images you want to put into the encrypted library . One way of doing this is to <URL> to those pictures . I used fmeo ( short for for my eyes only ) . Next <URL> that includes the images you tagged . Export or copy the tagged images into a folder on your desktop . Leave the images in your original iPhoto Library until you 're sure you 've sucessfully completed this entire process -- but do n't forget to go back and delete the images once you 're satisfied with the results . Next you need to <URL> for your private images . Quit iPhoto if it 's open . Open iPhoto while holding the Option key down . Create a new library from the dialog box displayed . I named mine FMEO . I strongly suggest you not give it a name like Pictures I Do n't Want My Spouse To See because the filename will be visible in the Finder if follow my complete plan . Import the images you want to protect into iPhoto ( making sure you 're using the FMEO library ) and organize them as you see fit . When you 're happy with the results , quit iPhoto . You can safely delete the Finder folder containing these images . Use <URL> if you 're concerned that someone will try to recover the deleted files . So far , all you 've done is created a separate library for your private photos . It is n't protected in any way . In fact , assuming the FMEO library was the last library used , iPhoto will display your private images the next time it 's opened . The secret to keeping those images from prying eyes is to store the library inside an encrypted container . Fortunately , Apple provides everything you need to create this container free of charge in OS X ( 10.3 + ) . Open Disk Utility . ( It 's in your Utilities folder . ) Create an <URL> : Choose New > Blank Disk Image from the menu Enter a name . Again , be discreet as this name will definitely be visible from the Finder . Choose a size for your container . It must be big enough to contain the current library and , assuming you want the ability to add images in the future , should allow ample room for future growth . You can afford to be a little generous with this because you 're going to use a <URL> image format , meaning the container will initially only take up as much disk space as its contents plus a little overhead and will grow ( but never shrink ) as necessary up to it 's maximum formatted size . Do n't worry too much about creating an image that you might outgrow someday as you can always create a new sparse image file and transfer the library into a bigger home if your library becomes too large . For Format Just use the default Mac OS X Extended ( Journaled ) unless you have a compelling reason not to . Same for Parition settings , just leave them be unless you know better . Encryption : I 'd suggest 128-bit ( more than adequate for most purposes ) but you 're free to use a higher level if you think it 's necessary . Click Create button . Enter a good password when prompted . Do not store the password in the keychain because that would
No , not since 4.2 can you do this because the APN settings disappeared off the devices . Though , there are videos on youtube and tutorials in other places that can walk you through adding the features back on to your device . Whether or not they still work or will work for you depending on your current iOS version installed on iPad is a different story . A particular Video here : <URL> If you read the comments though , it does n't work for everyone , and some people it did work for had issues with their sim cards after about a week of use , with AT&amp;T disabling them . Other people on here might tell you to jailbreak your device and enable tethering but that is your choice . Jailbreaking is n't for everyone . A website here talks about making a wifi hotspot with your iPhone the legal or jailbroken way and talks about the pros and cons of each : <URL> I hope that this answer helps you out .
The relatively difficult-to-find solution to the problem is to go to the Note you wish to lock : in the top-right corner , tap the " Share " icon on the bottom row , there will be a lock symbol with a caption that says " Lock Note " . select that symbol you will be prompted to create a password that locks this note , but remember that this single password will secure all your protected notes , not just the note you 're on . You can also use Touch ID to secure your notes . Remember that if you secure the note , it will no longer be accessible by devices running versions of OS X older than 10.11.4 , or devices running a version of iOS different from 9.3 or higher . Next time you try to open that Note ( or others that are locked with the passcode ) , you 'll be prompted for your password to unlock it . You can change the Notes password by going to your Home screen , then Settings > Notes > Password .
Manually enter your username and password . Tap " Passwords " right above your keyboard . Tap " Save This Password . " It still wo n't autofill when you first load the page , but now you can tap in the username field and hit " Autofill Password . " There seems to be no way to actually reset the " Never for this site " setting . Sounds like a job for <URL> .
The new login of iTunes Connect uses an AJAX form for signing in but does not use a tag for it which prevents Chrome from saving the password . I was so annoyed that I built a tiny <URL> to fix this issue and allow Chrome to save the password .
An article written by someone else who did that : <URL> The author did get his cracked , but had to borrow a supercomputer to do so even after he got custom software designed to use partial knowledge of the password he had chosen . It shows how hard a general cracking effort would be , but also how choosing a short or known pass phrase makes it practical in some cases to hire an expert to bypass even a good solid encryption scheme .
In addition to the other answers posted here , I suggest looking at a few different online bookmarking sites : <URL> <URL> ( and yes ) Delicious.com Most of these services have add-ons or extensions to access the bookmarks . :) ( I really like diigo.com )
Regarding your comment on Paul 's answer , wanting to leave your computer for a moment : you have to lock your computer . Period . Open System Preferences , click Security ( top row , second to last option ) , under the " General " tab , check the box for " Require password [ immediately ] after sleep or screen saver begins " . Then , when you go to walk away from your computer ; <URL> ( Additional notes : Click the above line . ) Lock your Mac . Walk away . Come back , enter your password to unlock it . Secured console .
I 'm not sure exactly what type of software development you 'll be doing , but I 'm guessing it 's something that requires a Mac as you already have a machine running Linux and Windows . In that case , a Mini will be more than sufficient for development using Xcode . Even the basic 2.5 Ghz dual-core i5 has a fast enough CPU , but if you have enough money I 'd go for one of the i7 models - they 're quad core and that could make a bit of a difference for big compiles , etc. . One thing to be aware of - it 's not possible to upgrade the CPU , so buy the fastest you can afford . RAM and storage you can upgrade later on , when you have money . Two recommendations I 'd make Make sure you have enough RAM . It 's probably cheaper to buy this from a third-party rather than Apple and I 'd recommend at least 8GB , 16GB if you can afford it . It 's easy to install yourself ( just remove the bottom cover and slot it in ) and wo n't void your warranty . Get an SSD . Again , it 's cheaper to go third-party than buying from Apple . Installation is a bit more complex than installing the RAM but it 's still straightforward if you 're comfortable taking a computer apart ( see the various guides from <URL> ) . Doing it yourself will , in theory , void your warranty , so be careful ! I think you 'll be just fine using a Mac Mini for software development - I 'm perfectly happy using my i7 2012 model for development .
The root user password has to be set by you and they could be the same if you choose so , but it is not advisable to do that . From the Apple menu choose System Preferences . From the View menu choose Users &amp; Groups . Click the lock and authenticate as an administrator account . Click Login Options . Click the " Edit " or " Join " button at the bottom right . Click the " Open Directory Utility " button . Click the lock in the Directory Utility window . Enter an administrator account name and password , then click OK . Choose Enable Root User from the Edit menu . Enter the root password you wish to use in both the Password and Verify fields , then click OK .
Have you seen this other question / answer ? <URL> The Finder has built in video encoding and you could even use these to set up watch folders and attach a pre-set conversion using Automator if you found one setting that you prefer ...
According to <URL> , it requires 1.5 GB when in VM . Usually you will assign a max of 4GB on the windows VM which should be sufficient for a satisfactory operation of Windows inside the VM with the Visual Studio . In this case there will be 4GB left for the hosting OS . Which usually is again adequate . Also , Yosemite does a really good job in handling CPU and Ram , so in my opinion you should be ok . My personal experience with a 2009 MBpro , 8GB Ram on Yosemite running windows on VM shows that there are very rare the occasions where I am out of RAM .
You ca n't generally password protect specific apps without some jailbreaking I assume , but you can restrict certain things , a few of which I recommend if you are giving it to a young one . <URL> Describes the restrictions process , and it lists You can choose to restrict access to the following applications and features on the device : Safari , YouTube , iTunes , Ping , App installation , App deletion , Camera , FaceTime , Location , Account changes , Multiplayer games in Game Center , Adding friends in Game Center . In addition , you can choose to prevent access to specific content types : In-app purchases , Music and podcasts , Movies , TV shows , Apps . You can also set iTunes restrictions for content via <URL> , but again , this is n't device specific at the time , it is when you are buying or downloading content from the internet .
Try running Keychains Repair Tool by opening Keychain from you Utilities folder , then from the menu bar choose Keychain Access , then Keychain First Aid , then enter your password , verify then start it . If there are any problems click Repair then Start . ( via <URL> ) If that does n't work then try Resetting your Keychain . Via <URL> you just need to do these steps : Open Keychain Access , which is in the Utilities folder within the Applications folder . From the Keychain Access menu , choose Preferences . Click General , then click Reset My Default Keychain . Authenticate with your account login password . Quit Keychain Access then Restart your computer .
end question
start question
How secure is it to allow Safari to remember passwords on my iPhone ?
According to an <URL> , there are known exploits for Apple 's keychain , which would allow an attacker to gain access to passwords stored on the iPhone . I believe that Safari uses keychain to store the username/passwords you tell it to remember .
Get an iPhone case that provides backup power . You can maneuver iPhone completely hands-free by saying " Hey Siri " if you are willing to keep your phone plugged in to a portable USB battery while you walk around . iOS 8 has " Hey Siri " built-in : Settings > General > Siri > " Hey Siri " > Enabled The rub : " Hey Siri " only listens when phone is plugged in to power . The fix : Bring a portable USB backup battery and keep your phone plugged in ! Some protective iPhone cases also have built-in batteries you can use to charge your iPhone when the time comes . I imagine this would be the most convenient way to accomplish what you would like to do without having to carry extra items . I asked around the Genius Bar at an Apple Store in Chicago why they suppose such a feature would have such a restriction , and the general consensus suggested was that people in close proximity would likely set off each other 's phones . My personal suspicion is that constantly polling in the background might be costly in terms both of battery life as well as network traffic , and most people plug in where WiFi is much more likely to be available . I figured Siri would recognize our voices by now ! =)
At one time or another I have deleted a whole bunch of the standard issue programs that I knew I would n't use . I prefer not to have them wasting my space , however little it may be . Also , I use a Mac Mini as a media centre , changing the standard hdd for an ssd , so space is at a premium . Appcleaner is one app that I have used for several years to tidy stuff up . Never had a single issue with deleting Stickies , Notes , Bootcamp Assistant , Audio Midi Setup , RAID , Podcast , etc , etc. . Appcleaner preferences should be set up to delete " protected " apps and then will delete the app and all the other files ( plists , etc. ) that go with it . Another app , CleanMyMac , does the same , but will also do a more general clearout of caches , etc. . Both recommended ... Good luck !
You can create an <URL> directly on the iPhone that acts like a queue . Alternatively you could <URL> in iTunes then import that to the iPhone by dragging the list to the phone icon . Any missing tracks would be imported .
Yes it is , you have to connect your iPad to your PC once . Select your device in iTunes and check the flag " sync with this iPad over Wi-Fi " under the tab " Summary " . Click " apply " . Now you can sync your device without connect it to iTunes trough the cable . You can do it both from iTunes and from the iPad . If you want to launch the sync from your iPad go to " Settings - > General - > iTunes Wi-Fi Sync "
The bottleneck is the available free memory ( RAM ) on the iPhone . If Safari starts running out of memory it will flush the contents of older tabs meaning they have to reload when you switch back to them . If you have too many tabs open , or you simply have multiple tabs that each have a large web page in them , Safari will reload when you switch back to another tab . There 's no fixed limit ; it depends on the combined size of the HTML + all assets each web page you have open and on the total number of tabs you have open . As the available RAM in new iPhone models increases , this will become less and less of a problem .
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
Yes , you can . As long as you backup everything to iTunes , you are safe to wipe it clean . When you connect your new iPhone to iTunes it will ask , " Do you want to load data from the currently saved backup ? " or , " Do you want to set up as a new iPhone " . You can also synchronize your iPhone with iCloud , directly from your iPhone . On your new iPhone , during first setup , you can choose to restore from iCloud . Make sure you have the latest iTunes installed nonetheless .
There are several bluetooth solutions , that should be useful : <URL> ( $ 29 ) - This should do the trick . Works and has interesting features . I recommend it . <URL> - No longer developed and supported . I see almost everything vanished , but I think you should be able to locate a working copy somehow . Edit : As of OS X 10.10 Yosemite and iOS8 this will be included in the OS itself . It 's called <URL> . ps . I 'm not in any way connected to the authors of the software , mentioned in my answer .
There are a few extensions that will add a nice download button to the Youtube video page , and give you the option to download in various resolutions . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also try <URL> , which does a lot more than just offer a download link , but it does that , and it 's one of my favourite extensions . Makes watching web video much nicer .
Yes it is for iPhone 3G and 3GS , but not for iPhone 4 as it uses a different bootrom . Just google " Android on iPhone 3GS " and click on the first entry , where you 'll find instructions on how to do it .
Using the post that <URL> <URL> , I 've written a Safari/Chrome extension that adds a button to the context menu ( right click ) on every page , which allows you to " pause " scrolling , essentially locking the page in place . To unlock it , you just right click and choose " Resume Scrolling . " You can download it <URL> .
Most computer ca n't charge an iPhone as rapidly as the dedicated wall chargers sold by Apple . The exception to this generalization is some macs do charge iOS devices rapidly . The iPhone 4 and most other iOS devices are designed to charge at higher currents than the baseline USB can power . Many newer Apple products will provide up to 1100mA of charging current at 5V even though the USB specification limits current to 500mA at 5V . This will certainly charge an iPhone 4 faster than most computers or " by the spec " USB chargers . The The iPad 10W charger is much faster than the iPhone charger so I do n't know who would win in a race - a mac with extra operating current , the <URL> , the <URL> or perhaps the <URL> The Mac/USB bus details are documented at <URL> as well as in the <URL> article . The nice picture is from the " Powering through USB article " .
Briefing Jailbreaking is unofficial so no iphone comes jailbroken unless a individual have purposely installed it . If sim-free iphone is a factory unlocked one as you implied in a comment , there is no direct relation and it does not come jailbroken at all . And never will . As Brad said , even official apps have a good chance to be malware . But , granted , " unofficial " ones do have higher chance . I 'd say the biggest risk you have on jailbreaking , though , is leaving it open for some exploits . Two of the most common ones would be ssh root alpine and breaking through the lockcode . And with not jailbreaking the biggest risk you have is connecting on unsecure wifi . With jailbreaking you have the possibility of arming yourself with more tools both for exposing and fixing security holes so it all depends on how savy you are . Advice I would not use anything I do n't deeply understand to store sensitive information , and it 's not jailbreaking the main issue here . If you lose your iPhone , or someone steal it with the intent to steal information from it , you 're basically screwed - specially if it 's not jailbroken with heavy tweaks and customizations because it makes it all the easier to find exploits . That 's why Windows has so many malwares - because it 's heavily used worldwide and most people will use it with default configurations - so it 's way spread out with more people trying to break it and sharing information on how to do it . I hope you get the point .
No , you can not install fonts on any iOS device without jail breaking or by creating an app . But Safari can itself display fonts placed on a server with appropriate html code in the page .
You can use multi-touch gestures to swipe to the last app you used , in this case will be mail . First make sure Multi-Touch gestures are turned on in the settings panel . Once this feature is on , you can swipe from right to left with four fingers or more to cycle through the apps you last used . If you do not want to use that , you can double tap the home button top bring up the last few apps used .
The feature I 'm after is called : Instant Hotspot It seems like an iPhone 4S can not do this feature . From <URL> , it 's an iPhone 5 or newer . <URL> . Sad.Panda :(
<URL> . A quick outtake : The simple answer is that your data is at least as safe as it is when stored on any remote server , if not more so . All data is transferred to computers and mobile devices using secure sockets layer via WebDAV , IMAP , or HTTP . All data except e-mail and notes -- more on that later -- are stored and encrypted on disk on Apple 's servers . And secure authentication tokens are created on mobile devices to retrieve information without constantly transmitting a password . And backups are stored and transferred encrypted . As for an employee being able to access a backup , only an Apple employee would be able to correctly answer that . If an App was pulled from the store , they may not need to actually go into your backup to remove it . All apps have a unique identifier , and if anything they can just delete that backup for everyone ( think of the backups being stored individually rather than a big ZIP file if you will ) . Again , this is internal to Apple so no one can fully answer that part . Finally , backups do include the Keychain , but this is also encrypted and the key is tied to the device that did the backup . From various places I have read online , Apple meets or exceeds ( more often the case ) standard security procedures in this regard .
Presently there are n't any known Viruses for iOS . The security exploit that you mentioned , the PDF exploit and the TIFF image exploit before it , were patched shortly after the exploit was made public . Is it impossible for a virus to sneak through ? Absolutely not , though if you 're running the most recent iOS release the chances you 'll get a virus or have your iOS device be exploited are extremely unlikely . There 's a large community of people who actively seek exploits for non-malicious reasons ( Jailbreaking ) , and Apple is always quick to patch the security hole . As a rule of thumb , for iOS and other operating systems , keep your device up to date via the built in update mechanisms and you 're exposure to security vulnerabilities will be quite low . In fact , the most recent iOS update 5.1.1 included a <URL> . Though this is n't a virus , it 's an example of the cat-and-mouse game that Apple and the security community continually play .
This is possible using Do-Not-Disturb - a new feature in iOS 6 . Open Settings.app Go to Notifications > Do Not Disturb Select " Allow Calls From " You have several options . Either create a group , or have only those few people in your Favorites . The best is probably to create a group as that allows you better flexibility . After you have created the group with only the people that you want to allow to reach you , select it from the list . Now , to enable silent mode except for those two people turn on Do Not Disturb in Settings.app . Creating/Editing Groups : This is n't as easy as it appears on iOS . <URL> As mentioned in the accepted answer , your best strategy for creating or editing groups is to go to iCloud.com on your computer . Quoting the answer : " No , there is no way to create or edit contact groups on iOS . I share your frustration ! The best workaround is to use iCloud.com ( or your primary Mac , if you have it with you ) . " But you can add contacts to a particular group , ( though it is n't straight-forward ) : In Contacts , tap the Groups button in the top left Tap " Hide All Contacts " Tap the group that you want to add the contact to ( making it the only visible group ) Tap Done in the top right Tap the Add button ( ) in the top right So , the easiest is to just use a Mac ( if you have one ) or iCloud.com to create and add people to a group . After this is done , the new group with the people that you want to reach you should appear on iPhone .
end question
start question
Is it possible to put Mountain Lion 's install on an HDD partition ?
Yes you can do it with an internal partition or in an external HDD , just one partition , USB , DVD , all is more or less the same , I have to say that this is one of the best things on the Mac , so easy to backup and restore systems . NOTICE : back up all your data , and make sure the partition that you are going to use is the correct one , this will destroy all information in that partition Open Disk utility , and click the desired partition on the left column . Go to the " restore " tab At the source , select the dmg file containing the installer ( you may need to scan the image first , to do that go to the images menu item and select " Scan image for restore " ) . At the destination , drag the partition that you would like to use . Press Restore ( erase everything on , at least I prefer it that way ) . THIS DESTROYS ALL INFO IN THAT PARTITION . If all went well , it should copy all info into the partition Go to system preferences and select startup disk , select the partition that you restored the installer into Restart . If all went well , you should be seeing the installer running from your partition , just select the destination for the new installation and all should be ok . If for some reason the restore did n't work , you may need to mount the installer image and use that " virtual " disk as the source and not the actual image , I 've had some trouble in the past and this sorted my problem .
Are you just using the dictation feature ( the microphone button on the keyboard ) , or sending email or texts/iMessages through Siri ( holding down the home button , telling Siri to send a message ... ) ? If you 're using the Siri function , when it prompts you if you want to send it , you can ask Siri to " read it to me " or " review it " and it will be read back to you . If you 're just using the dictation ( which technically is n't Siri ) , your best option is to use VoiceOver , as <URL> .
You can read about the differences <URL> About the adapter You gave in the link , a reviewer wrote : If you 're looking for an adapter to charge your 30 pin device * with a lightning cable , then you will not be disappointed . If you wishing to connect your 30 pin device * for sync to your computer * , then you will also not be disappointed for at least some 30 pin devices * . Also many complain that the device they got does not work , so You should look for a more reliable one . There is a post about this that the adapter stopped working after a new software version : <URL> You should consider buying an USB to 30 pin or a more reliable 8 to 30 pin adapter like <URL> ( note that this only allows you to charge the phone . No data transfer )
You can buy a contract-free iPhone directly from Apple . Just click on " Or get an iPhone unlocked and contract-free " :
It does n't matter when you plug it in . You can even remove ( not advised though ) the battery and still use it when the adapter is plugged in . I can imagine the battery does not work properly ( or even work at all ) when it hits the 0 %
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
Under there is an option to not require password to wake computer from sleep or screen saver .
Clearly : No . The simulator does not offer hardware access ( gyroscope , accelerometer , etc. ) and also , you just do n't get the feeling for your App , which is very important in iOS development . You ca n't use the gestures and you do n't know how it reacts if you work with it . so it is definitely not advisable . I tried to use the simulator in the beginning , but some frameworks do n't even run on it .
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
It is possible to downgrade to iOS5 . You will just have to " trick " iTunes into thinking you are restoring from one of you backups . Just make sure to first make a backup of your current settings . Then it 's just a matter of restoring from the " fake " backup ( IPSW-file ) . You can download an IPSW ( backup file ) from <URL>
A workaround is to make an alias of the app , drag the alias to Dock and then change the icon for the alias ie . not for the actual app . Downside is that you get a small alias -- arrow added to the lower -- left corner to the icon . Make an alias Drag the alias to the Dock Change the icon like you would for any Finder item . In the following screenshot we have copied the icon of Chess app and pasted it to the newly -- made alias of Automator . ( NB , make sure you first copy the icon and then paste it ; the screenshot accidentally is showing the opposite way . )
An alternative method is to use Safari 's built-in " Reopen All Windows from Last Session " feature :
No unfortunately the only options are really external . Until someone can come up with a 3G / 4G card that will work in place of the MacBook Airs Wifi / Bluetooth card , but even then how portable are the antennas designs between Wifi and 3G / 4G cellular signals , not sure it would work well if at all . <URL> : A mobile WiFi Hot Spot is a real option for now , essentially a portable broadband card that interfaces with your Mac via Wifi to allow a data connection . Also if have a smartphone such as an iPhone or Android phone that offers this Wifi sharing you can use one of those as well to do the same thing . These kinds of devices have their own battery and would allow you to tuck them away in a backpack , bag , pocket etc and use your MacBook Air with out any dongles , etc. .
Not an exact answer to your question , but when using Terminal.app there is an option to even further reduce hard disk sleep time from 10 minutes to 1 minute , with this command :
You ca n't " install " it , but you can clone an image of the OS on your laptop using Disk Utility and save it to an external hard drive , then restore that image ( also with Disk Utility ) onto your Mac mini . Even better , if you can use Target Disk Mode ( requires both Macs have either Thunderbolt or FireWire ) , you can use the same restore feature in Disk Utility to clone directly between the drives without requiring the external media/image file . This will of course wipe your Mac mini drive in the process and wo n't give you a clean install . If you 're OK with that though , then it might be an option if you really ca n't afford the download .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
No - OS X older than Lion can not read or comprehend/mount/use a <URL> such as used with <URL> . Someone could reverse engineer the protocol and write drivers for older OS or different OS , but I have n't even seen a start towards that effort in any open source project .
You can change the library location from the window on the tab . and select the tab . At the top where it says click the button : In the Finder window that opens , move the to the place where you 'd rather it exist . This can take some time if it 's a large library . Once it 's moved , double click on it in Finder and your Photos app will update and point to the new location .
Yes , restarts are possible . Hold the home button and the lock button until the Apple logo is displayed.Switching it off &amp; on is the same as restarting .
<URL> , so you could <URL> and then install Nautilus using that : You should then be able to run it using the terminal command . You may see the following during installation : Running the commands manually should be enough to run directly after installation ( without rebooting ) .
end question
start question
Can I connect the iPad 2 video out to an iMac ?
Yes you can do it using an Active HDMI to MiniDisplay port adaptor like <URL> but as you can see it 's not cheap
Apple has published <URL> . Unless you are a registered developer , you should contact Apple and they can assist with proper logos and artwork .
Based on <URL> , the iPad 2 HDMI adapter is not fully supported with the new iPad : Is this a new HDMI AV Adapter ? It is exactly a new product with the compatibility for the new iPad . If you try to use the previous adapter on the new iPad it will tell you " This accessory is not supported " My guess is that the new screen resolution of the new iPad has led to this incompatibility . Besides , with the old adapter the best you could get was 720p , with the new one it 's boosted to 1080p .
Unfortunately no . I am running a setup with a 2016 MacBook Pro , the Thunderbolt 3 to Thunderbolt 2 adapter and a 2013 iMac 27 " .
There are a lot of applications doing this job : <URL> ( 1 $ ) , <URL> ( 4 $ ) , and a free <URL> , but it requires your iPad to be <URL> . Sorry , did n't found anything that would be free and , ehm , completely legal .
Without jailbreaking , I believe your options are the use of apps that provide this kind of lock functionality built-in , unless Apple decide to implement some kind of <URL> in future iOS versions for devices like the iPad . I 've previously come across <URL> or <URL> ( there may well be others ) which provide passcode protection schemes when starting and , judging by the screenshots , appear to be frontends to the relevant webmail pages ( as opposed to a native application like the Apple Mail app ) . I 've not used either , but they may be of use to you .
According to <URL> : For the quickest charge , connect the device to a power outlet using the USB cable that came with the device and an Apple USB power adapter . The USB spec limits the amount of current that a device may draw from a USB port ( 500 mA ) ; the included Apple standalone power adapter can supply double that ( 1 A ) . The difference is even more dramatic for devices that have higher current draw to recharge ( newer model iPads , for example ) . Generally speaking , charging from your computer wo n't affect the performance of your computer at all as long as you are n't syncing or otherwise interacting with the device . USB can supply power without requiring data transmission ( such is the case for wall adapters ) .
What seems to work is signing out from my Apple ID ( using the Apple ID link at the bottom of the App Store ) , then shutting off the device ( hold the power button ) . Then I turn back on the device , go to the App store , enter my Apple ID info , and then try to download/update an app again . Just restarting or relogging in to my Apple ID alone did n't seem to be enough .
Actually this is possible ! ... Use the following instructions : 1 . Tap the blue arrow next to the name of the AirPort Express WiFi network to view more options . 2 . Select " Static " as the type of IP address , and then enter the following IP address and Subnet Mask : IP Address : 10.0.1.4 ( for example ) Subnet Mask : 255.255.0.0 Make sure you leave Router , DNS , and Search Domains blank ! This tells the iPhone that it should use its cellular network to route internet traffic rather than trying to do it via WiFi .
Yes you can , but there are some aspects of the environment of the beach life that need to be controlled . Salt water corrodes electronics fiercely . Waves crashing means that the atmosphere at a beach is saturated with water droplets with a high concentration of salt in many cases . Direct sun on the front black face of any iOS device can over heat it rapidly . You will probably feel it uncomfortably hot before the point where the device shuts itself off to prevent battery damage . Even if the device is powered down , you can permanently damage any Lithium Polymer battery in a few hours if the temperature is hot enough . Sand can get in the home button mechanism and may never come out . The 30 pin connector , the headphone jack , a SIM slot are easier to clean and less likely to be functionally impaired than the close tolerances of the glass on glass home button gap . Bright light makes it harder to see the backlit screen and if you are wearing polarized sunglasses , you will see that the display is highly polarized . It 's fun from a science experiment aspect , but bad for reading or color accuracy of the display . I would probably have a <URL> or two with me and bring an umbrella or shade to control the light and direct heat . A ziplock bag also works if you do n't think the closer fitting sleeve is worth spending money on . Depending on your beach some or all of these concerns may be disregarded , but I tried to cover the common beach scenarios . Other than that - keep it cool , heat yourself up and enjoy your iPad on the beach .
See <URL> : Cellular and wireless UMTS/HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) 802.11 b/g Wi-Fi Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR wireless technology From <URL> : In North America , GSM operates on the primary mobile communication bands 850 MHz and 1,900 MHz . In Canada , GSM-1900 is the primary band used in urban areas with 850 as a backup , and GSM-850 being the primary rural band . In the United States , regulatory requirements determine which area can use which band .
Yes , it wo n't hurt the iMac . In fact they can even be used sideways , as long as you do n't block any vents . Hard drive bearings are said to last longest when they are either upright or flat , but apart from the convection-cooled Mac Cube I do n't know of any Mac that depends on orientation for cooling or anything else . If you are putting them away for any length of time , get some <URL> packets or a " <URL> " or local equivalent to ensure humidity does not speed corrosion or otherwise damage your machines . Wrap them tightly in plastic to prevent critters crawling in , there is nothing worse than finding something living in your old computer . Dead bodies or other debris may be corrosive or conductive . If your iMac is the CRT kind consider cutting a panel out of plywood to protect the glass screen . CRTs are hard to smash but easy to scratch or chip . If you are putting away anything really precious ( iMac signed by the Steves ? ) best practice is sealing the computer in an environment of dry nitrogen gas - it 's a serious measure but not actually that hard to do since airtight bags are easy to find and nitrogen is becoming common in <URL> . Removing oxygen prevents oxidisation ( rust ) and will also make it impossible for creatures to colonise your Mac since they can not live without oxygen . In the last decade the <URL> has seen the use of lead-free solder increase . One big problem with this is the growth of " <URL> " from the solder and other circuit elements that can bridge what should be gaps between circuit paths . While the exact cause of whiskers and the right way to prevent their growth post-manufacturing is still unknown there are minority suggestions that vacuum or nitrogen environments help - but from my reading , a temperature-controlled or even cycling environment is more likely to be effective . When the exact facts are known the right way to store computers long-term will probably change . But it 's sad to think that there is a risk to our machines even if they are well cared-for . <URL> so this applies to them . Older machines may well be manufactured using lead solder and so tin whiskers would not be an issue . I could not find a definitive answer .
The short version : Original iPad , no . iPad 2 , yes . The details also matter for some features , per <URL> : There 's also the device specific features fine print : Turn-by-turn navigation is available only on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , and iPad 2 or later with cellular data capability . Flyover is available only on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , iPad 2 or later , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) . Siri is available on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , iPad ( 3rd generation ) , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) and requires Internet access . FaceTime video calling requires a FaceTime-enabled device for the caller and recipient and a Wi-Fi connection . FaceTime over a cellular network requires iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , or iPad ( 3rd generation ) with cellular data capability . Offline Reading List is available on iPhone 4 or later and iPad 2 or later . Made for iPhone hearing aids require iPhone 4S or iPhone 5 . Panorama is available on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) .
To give it a full fresh and clean and welcome experience I would suggest you remove all stuff accumulated over time including all non apple aps . To do that you can erase all the information from hard drive and simply reinstall the OS X. Apple 's knowledge base article has the steps : <URL> . On most computers , the erase and install takes 30 minutes plus how ever long it takes to download the installer package from Apple 's servers . That part is about a 4 GB download if you have n't saved it and follow the above instructions .
If you get a <URL> , then yes you can hook any DVI display up to your Mac .
No . I installed iOS 5.1 on a Wifi iPad 2 , and opened the notes app . No microphone icon is displayed on the keyboard as shown in the keynote or as one sees on the iPhone 4S . This means that voice dictation is a iPad ( 3rd Generation ) and iPhone 4S only feature . There may be apps that enable something like this in the App Store . I ca n't guess about the lower priced iPad 2 16 GB , but existing iPads do not seem to get this feature with the iOS 5.1 update .
It 's not locked to any one carrier so you should be able to insert a Micro SIM card for your local carrier and it will work . The catch is that there are different sets of GSM frequencies in use , so you should verify that your chosen carrier uses frequencies supported by the iPad . Odds are it will work , but better to be safe . From the <URL> , here is what it supports : UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) The broader situation is that the only problematic ( less interoperable ) 3G iPad is the Verizon-specific model sold in the USA
I do n't believe you can do this with the stock phone , however if you decide to jailbreakyour iPhone , you could use an application like <URL> to share your iPhone 's 3G connection over WiFi
You do n't have a Rev A iPad 2 -- the MC979 is an iPad2 ,1 ( 16 GB White ) . The Rev A iPad 2 ( iPad2 ,4 -- A1395 ) model numbers start with MC954 ( black ) or MC989 ( white ) . They use the <URL> . Source : <URL> To view your model number , you can find it in Settings & rarr ; About .
Back up your iPad with iTunes . Back up that hard drive . Unplug that backup and store it far away from any internet connection . If you do update Sykpe by mistake , restore the iPad from the backup . It wo n't keep Skype from updating , but it will preserve your ability to undo the update .
end question
start question
Pillars of Eternity : Better to buy from Mac App Store or from Steam ?
Steam . With steam , you 'll be able to play it on Windows too , should you ever have the need . The same ca n't be said for the MAS , which only offers the Mac version . It 's a nice bit of future-proofing , incase you ever get a Windows PC in the future . To put it simply , you get more for your money .
This tutorial should be able to help you : <URL> I just tried it and it worked for me . Not sure how reconnects will go after a reboot or something , but it should n't be that difficult to get working again .
Yes , you can . In Xcode , you can set archive for iOS Device even if you have n't got an iOS Device ( this is instead of " Simulator " ) and upload this binary to iTunes Connect perfectly fine .
Selling unlocked phones is a fairly new thing for Apple retail . They 've never been part of a product launch - so looking back , the precedent is NIL . There is great precedent for any new phone launch to have lines and quotas for the first 30 to 60 days after a product introduction . There also is precedent for a huge shipment on launch day - then limited stock for a few weeks as things sell faster than they can be made . I would simply stop by your store and get to know the business team if you have business needs . Until the policy is announced , it should be handled like any other phone in terms of what payment is allowed ( cash or not ) as well as purchase limits . The last launch , it was one phone per person while availability was limited and one web order at a time . Once the stores stopped selling out of inventory on a daily basis , it was easier to just walk in and get a phone . Last time I checked , the store has to bring out a different physical box when I purchased an unlocked phone ( I changed my mind about AT&amp;T contract half way through the process ) . The current stock does ship as an AT&amp;T phone or an unlocked GSM phone - they are not the same SKU . I suppose the computers could use a common stock and " unlock " the device when selling , but that would be different than what happens today . I do know that the <URL> worked very well last launch , so do think about getting that installed if you are keen to get a few phones as soon as iOS 5 launches .
iTunes loads the most recent view on startup . Selecting anything other than iTunes Store or Ping in the left sidebar before closing iTunes means that the store will not load on startup . The store will then first load when you select iTunes Store or Ping .
To ensure that any new Contacts I created went into the " From My Mac " group , I changed the " Default Account " for Contacts [ in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars ] from " Exchange " to " From My Mac " . There is no functionality to manage Contact Group membership on the iPhone in iOS 5.1 . To move the Contacts from Outlook to " From My Mac " , I found those contacts in Outlook ( on my PC ) , and emailed a Vcard / . vcf file ( In Outlook , right-click the Contact , choose " Foward Contact " , then choose " As a Business Card " ) to my personal email address . I then opened those Vcards on the iPhone through Mail , and saved as new Contacts . ( They went to the correct group because I 'd made change in Settings , above . ) Last , I deleted those contacts from Outlook , so that they would n't be dupes . See also <URL> .
Realistically , you need an Intel Mac , the cheapest possible one will do , and access to at least 1 to 3 iOS devices . One device for the current OS release , one device running the OS release of the oldest OS you plan on supporting , and perhaps one dedicated test device for doing beta OS app testing . If you want to do Universal apps , at least 1 iPad and one non-iPad , as there are many things that ca n't be fully tested on the iOS Simulator . Going forward , a Mac that can run Lion may end up being required to keep up with the latest SDK frameworks , codesigning tools and app submission tools . You need to register any iOS devices that you want to use for app testing . They do n't need to belong to you or your company . Multiple developers can register the same shared devices . You do n't need to " register " any Macs . You do need to create and/or copy private keys and certificates to each Mac that you want to use for device testing development or app store submission . Unrealistically , you could get by with none . No devices or owned Macs are required . ( There are online tools that will pretty much construct an entire native app Xcode project . ) Have a friend or consultant with a Mac get your certificates and do the final codesigning ; and let your customers be your beta testers . But the latter could easily lead to apps that get rejected or that crash for most of your customers . And the non-Mac development tools all have various ( some severe ) deficiencies .
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
Typically , the method that you described will work . However , in some ( rare ) cases , the app will change the way it stores settings and other information , and that would cause the old version to misbehave until you delete the app 's settings ( usually found in the Library folder ) and start anew . But , as far as the App Store goes , your method is pretty much the only way to go , and the App Store should n't complain if you reinstall the old version .
App applications downloaded from the App Store will automatically resume if your network service is interrupted . The Lion download is a DVD sized . dmg file that contains the OS , not a pre-loader . If your download does get interrupted you can control + click on the Lion icon in your dock then click resume .
If it 's a certified apple reseller you will get exactly the same product as when purchasing at www.apple.com or the apple store . If it 's another shop that is not certified by apple , you should ask them ( how are we here supposed to know ? ) . You will get the same level of support . It 's <URL> with 90 days of telephone support .
Yes , this is possible . The backups themselves contain <URL> that is n't particularly version-specific ( with the exception of <URL> , as pointed out by hobs above ) . In fact , I had to do this exact process recently , going from 4.2.1 to an iOS 5.0 gold master on an iPhone using a backup , and it went off without a hitch . Developers who want to install a prerelease OS version must put their devices in recovery mode , clean install the OS , then restore application data and settings from a backup . I did this for my iPhone , which I had n't upgraded to the latest 4.x OS , and everything came across cleanly to iOS 5.0 . The one thing to watch out for is that if you do n't encrypt your backups ( by selecting the " Encrypt iPhone backup " option in iTunes ) , your device 's keychain will not be transferred to the new device . For non-encrypted backups , the keychain is only preserved when restoring onto the same device you backed up from .
I believe I am correct in saying ( without a Mini to cross check against ) that they both ( along with all the Mac lineup ) use the integrated Intel HD audio chip , and as such there should be no real difference between the 2 . I would say that you limiting factor would be that the Mini does not have an integrated microphone , whereas the Air does , so you will need to bring your own mic . Also , neither have separate mic input/audio output ports , and require you to use something like an iPhone headset ( modified 3.5 mm audio connector with both channels on the same connector ) , which may not provide the quality ( or comfort ) you need . So , on the Mini , you will need to buy a headset in order to get mic input , and if you already have one you may need to replace it with a USB one or iPhone one . On the Air you 're good to go unless you are already a regular headset user , in which case you may beed to replace if it uses 2 discrete connectors for headphone/mic .
<URL> is a pdf reader specialy designed to annotate pdf . Skim is a PDF reader and note-taker for OS X . It is designed to help you read and annotate scientific papers in PDF , but is also great for viewing any PDF file . Stop printing and start skimming . Explore the links to the left to investigate Skim and consider helping out with the project . Features : Viewing PDFs Adding and editing notes Highlighting important text , including one-swipe highlight modes Making " snapshots " for easy reference Navigation using table of contents or thumbnails , with visual history View all your notes and highlights Convenient reading in full screen Giving powerful presentations , with built-in transitions Handy preview of internal links Focus using a reading bar Magnification tool Smart cropping tools Extensive AppleScript support Bookmarks Saving passwords in Keychain Export notes as text Automatic download of remote PDFs Support for Apple Remote Control Interaction with LaTeX , SyncTeX , and PDFSync Integration with BibDesk and other third party applications Spotlight support Highly customizable And much more ...
there is a commandline app called that you have to run as root . for example will give you the list of apps that are set to update . You can then run This wo n't let you install a new application that you have n't already downloaded though .
Yes , you can move the applications . Providing the destination remains in the Spotlight index , the Mac App Store will continue to update the app .
If by reinstall the OS , you simply mean reinstall it and not run first-time setup , the resulting installation will not be associated with you in any way . If you intend to run first-time setup , obviously do not login with your Apple ID during that process , and of course do n't input any personally-identifiable information either . There is metadata in a receipt file in the installer file itself that is associated with your Apple ID . That is not transferred to the resulting installation , though .
As you can read on the <URL> , there is indeed a difference : Should I buy from you directly , or from the Mac App Store ? It 's largely a matter of personal preference . Please refer to the pricing FAQ above to see which way gets you the best price . At the moment , there is only one difference between the two versions : the Mac App Store version will support iCloud syncing of Sites and Clips , and the direct version will not . This is a restriction imposed by Apple . Apple often changes the conditions for Mac App Store eligibility , and it 's possible we may have to modify or remove features from the Mac App Store version in the future . It 's our intent to keep them as close to identical as Apple will let us . So there you have your answer . So , if you like to sync with iCloud , you should buy from the Mac App Store . If you like to have a 50 % discount , buy from Panic directly ! I would go for the 50 % discount . :)
No , the iTunes account are country bounded . So you ca n't buy a Spanish app with your US account . But if you 'll be in Spain for a few months , I assume you have a Spanish address ? So there is no harm in creating a new account for your few months in Spain . All you need is an address or a gift card from Spain .
Yes ! After you purchase and download Lion from the App Store , the " Install " screen will appear : Before you click Continue , open your Applications folder and look for the icon labelled Install Mac OS X Lion : If you missed this chance ( and the App is deleted from your system ) , you can always re-download the package using the App Store app . Even if it shows Lion Installed , you can hold the option key pressed , then press the button to re-download the Lion installer app . Right-click ( or Ctrl + Click ) on this and choose Show Package Contents . Navigate to Contents > SharedSupport and look for InstallESD.dmg . Use Disk Utility ( in the Utilities folder inside the Applications folder ) to burn InstallESD.dmg to a DVD . Drag the InstallESD.dmg file to the Disk Utility window , select it , then choose Burn ... from the Images menu . A dialog appears allowing you to burn it to a DVD . The name of the DVD does n't really matter , but I named mine Mac OS X Lion .
end question
start question
Does the iPhone 4S generate a spark or detectable electric signal of any kind when receiving a call ?
To cut it short : This assumption is false . Cellphone are not able to cause high voltage sparks required to light gas . Probably only if short-circuited . Mythbusters <URL> this problem . Their answer was that such accidents were caused by <URL> on the person , not by cellphones . This is important to notice as " Petrol has a low electrical conductivity . This can cause a charge of static electricity to build up as it flows through a pipe . " [ 1 ] When both the petrol and the person are charged , there is a potential spark discharge in the gap between . Edit : A <URL> mentioned that research has been conducted on the matter by <URL> of the University of Kent . The publication is called : ' Phantom Risk : The Curious Case of Mobile Phones , Fire and Body Static , ' Health , Risk and Society 9 ( 1 ) 2007 ISSN : 1369-8575 and <URL> . [ 1 ] The Australian Transport Safety Bureau has published a paper called ' Static Fires at Petrol Stations ' which is publicly available for <URL> .
The Absinthe tools are really easy to use - jailbreaking has gotten much easier than it used to be . However , the dev teams are hard at work on getting their tools to work with the latest iOS version/chip version combinations so it 's hit or miss with if you will actually be able to do it . Absinthe is currently only compatible with 5.0.1 and 5.1.1 ( you can see greenpois0n.com for a bit of info ) . One thing to look out for is that it can be confusing but being that you have a 4S that narrows it down a bit - you will probably need to wait until they update Absinthe to jailbreak , unless you are fortunate enough to not have updated the firmware yet . On the subject of unlocking , that 's a different story - in case you 're not sure of the difference , unlocking means being able to use different carrier SIM cards where as jailbreaking means being able to use non approved apps ( it 's a common mistake , so that 's why I mention it here ) . Unlocking can be done a few different ways ( in the US , I 'm unsure exactly the process in other countries ) . In the US , Sprint WorldWide customer service will unlock your phone if your account has been in good standing for 90 days ( I 've had 5 iPhones unlocked this way ) and as long as there are no other holds on your account . AT&amp;T will unlock a 4S that is n't on contract ( I 'm unsure if it has to be an AT&amp;T phone originally ) and I think Verizon Wireless has a similar policy ( but I do n't know for certain ) . One thing you will want to watch out for are street vendors that say they can unlock your iPhone - they ca n't , do n't waste your money . iClarified actually has a pretty good walkthrough wizard for both unlocking and jailbreaking here : <URL> ( unlocking ) and <URL> ( jailbreaking ) Hope that helps . Cheers !
Yes , you can achieve your desired behavior without disabling Messages on your Mac . If you turn off notifications for Messages from within System Preferences , you will still receive the messages , but will not be notified that they came in . You can turn notifications off on the following screen . Simply click on " None " , and deselect all the checkboxes , as illustrated below :
<URL> works for testing multitouch , so you can try different areas of the screen by holding one finger in a place you know works and move the other elsewhere . If the line breaks , then the second finger is in a location that does n't work . You can test it full screen ( without the Safari UI but the status bar is still present ) by adding it to the home screen .
I 'm not an expert on jail breaking , but AFAIK , that limitation is baked into iTunes - it does n't really care if your phone is jailbroken , at least for the purposes of your question - it just talks with the music app ( or more specifically , the database behind it ) . That said , there is software out there that can restore your iTunes library from an iPod or iPhone . <URL> works on OS X , there 's also <URL> . <URL> seems to be the goto option for Windows . You 'll have to use one of those programs to get your library back on your new computer , then re-sync your iPhone from your new library .
Apple has made it abundantly clear that they will reject apps for reasons that change over time . The review guidelines explicitly say - your app will be rejected if it 's too similar to many other apps . So - the first person to do this might breeze through review . The 10th or 50th , not so much . The review guidelines and nature of thousands of apps means that not all reviews are equivalent - what one app does to get through might be rejected for weeks or months as you work with Apple to meet the review you get . Different teams and different people will make different decisions no matter how well intentioned a company is to make reviews uniform and fair to all . iOS apps of the category of remote notarization are now live ( several versions of that app exist ) , many real estate and digital signature verification / electronic contracting services exist ( this is far more crowded a slot than notary ) and all manner of business apps are booming on the app store as the premium and pay to play gaming juggernaut gets so saturated that apps with real functionality will hopefully become more prevalent . Thus , setting aside any notion that you can " read the tea leaves " based on what apps have been approved in the past , it 's probably a " first mover " advantage and do n't invest more than you can afford to lose until you have something you can submit and then work through your specific review feedback with Apple as opposed to guessing what may or may not be an issue .
→ → : Modifying files inside application bundles invalidates the code signature and changes are n't necessarily respected by updates .
I tried a few things ( even a websocket node app I wrote ) to do this , however I found an app , <URL> , that does exactly what you asked . It constantly reads a text file and shows you HTML/MD on the fly as you type . It 's pretty nifty , commercial , but nifty . The Marked Bonus Pack comes with a service for previewing text selections .
Once you have downloaded it from the App Store , but before you run it , you can copy the Install Mountain Lion app into the Applications folder of any Mac you have an Admin account on ( and have signed into the App store as you obviously ) and run it from there . If the Mac is not recent enough to install Mountain Lion the installer will tell you , otherwise it will happily install Mountain Lion for you . That 's how I updated all the Macs at my place . Note that once run the installer will delete itself from the Applications folder .
Save a plist like this as : Then load the plist with or by logging out and back in . is supposed to open an application hidden and without raising any windows . For some document-based applications like TextEdit , it opens a new visible window if the application is open but has no visible windows . and the option for were added in 10.8 . The option is only shown in the help message and not on the man page .
In general , extended warranty plans are a healthy-sized profit center for the company offering them . This implies that unless a product turns out to be less reliable than predicted , on average ( mean average ) customers will be better off paying for their own repairs without the warranty . However , if one ca n't afford to self-insure for abnormal or even normal deviations from the average , something like AppleCare will lessen the downside financial risks . Thus , I suggest ( and buy ) AppleCare only if an Apple product seems to be getting numbers of reports of below average reliability ( e.g. the Duo 2xx and PowerBook 5x00 product lines ) . For other Apple products , maybe put the money in a savings account instead , and there is a good likelyhood that you 'll end up ahead after a decade or two of Apple products .
iPhone does have a shell , bash to be specific , but you ca n't access the shell without jailbreaking , and any ' shell ' app from the App Store wo n't have the ability to interact with the device in any reasonable manner necessary for fixing network problems .
Due to the ( good ) edit of the question , the answer does not seem fit 100 % anymore . No . ... which depends on what you define as a ' mobile device ' . But first , the term resolution is ambiguously used which requires to answer your question in two ways . Resolution as in pixel density The iPad 3rd Generation has a pixel density of 264 pixels per inch ( ppi ) . There are several other devices that provide higher pixel densities - the most well known to you is probably the iPhone 4 ( S ) . As these belong to the mobile category , the answer is no . You can get a list of more devices <URL> . Resolution as in total pixel count The display of the iPad 3rd generation is referred to as <URL> . There are several other devices that provide higher pixel counts - e.g. the Apple iMac . However , none of the following devices are ' mobile ' . They provide higher pixel counts , but over a larger area . Hence , the answer is yes . See this <URL> for more devices . Note : Some of the resolutions stated there are only on paper - no devices implementing that resolution have been made yet according to the article .
On Linux , the <URL> project aims to support decoding FileVault2 . Yogesh Khatri wrote an <URL> where he suggests starting with <URL> . On Windows , the company Passware claim support for decrypting FileVault2 drives as part of <URL> . A <URL> mentions the software and highlights the feature in an included screenshot :
I charge my iPhone 4S overnight each night , but I could probably get through multiple days if I was careful . Currently , I 'm not careful about battery life . I listen to podcasts on the train to work , make calls , surf the Internet on 3G and WiFi , and listen to streaming radio on WiFi pretty much all day at work . With all that , I get ~ 16 hours of battery life , which is much better than either my old 4th gen iPod touch or my Palm Prē . Batteries can vary by model ; the people who wrote the articles you mention probably just got crappy batteries . They should take their iPhones in to an Apple Store and Apple 'll probably replace them , as the batteries are clearly defective .
Yes , security vulnerabilities that would allow people to hack or infect Macs and iOS products do exist , though they 're not exploited very often . <URL> is an annual contest where competitors try to hack into machines to win them as prizes . Both Macs and iOS products are hacked most years . Here is <URL> : Friday , Apple released an update to its mobile operating system ( iOS 4.3.4 ) which patches a couple of vulnerabilities that left a door open for malware infections on the iPad , 3rd and 4th generation iPod touch , iPhone 4 , and iPhone 3GS . Apple 's update describes the CoreGraphics vulnerability as " A buffer overflow ... in FreeType 's handling of TrueType fonts . Viewing a maliciously crafted PDF file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution . " [ ... ] This update comes on the heels of an alert from German IT group BSI , which warned of an unpatched vulnerability that would " allow attackers to gain access to the entire system with administrative privileges . " Apple does " verify " any software for their App Stores , but developers have been known to sneak in features without Apple 's testers seeing them , so do n't expect this to entirely protect you .
I would n't have believed a single ranting tweet , but the UK 's Daily Mail also covered this recently - so it 's actually likely to be true , for any given value of ' true ' [ my own opinions on the Mail 's foil-hat , ranty , opinionated style aside ... ] <URL>
There is no official certification . There are , though , non-Apple-official courses which are highly reputed , such as <URL> , for instance .
Have n't tried with text messages , but with Whatsapp and emails it does , unfortunately :( So to answer the second part of your question , yes notifications vibrates during call .
It prompts you ( just tried to open Aptana ) . I let it install and gives
end question
start question
How can I show the login window after a period of inactivity ?
One solution could then be this one ... Download this ScriptSaver ( ScreenSaver ) : <URL> - which can run AppleScripts . Then write an AppleScript script with this content : Setup a ScreenSaver in " Desktop &amp; Screen Saver " , and configure this with the ScriptSaver , which you then setup with the AppleScript script from above . After min . 3 minutes the current user session will be switched to the Fast User Switching window .
I Just found <URL> with a google . Not used it but it says it can " sync your home and work computers -- even if they 're not connected -- by syncing them both with an external hard drive serving as a " shuttle " for your data . "
This has happened to me in the past . The solution that worked for me was making sure that the disc surface is clean and scratch free , and I mean very clean . Using normal CD wipes is good to get dirt off , but if it is scratched more than slightly , then you may have problems . Or the disc may be defective from the factory , it does happen and they do exist . Try talking to your local Apple Store about a possible replacement , or if worst comes to the worst , you can order one <URL> ( Apple still stocks them ) . Hope this helps !
You can easily run as another user with like so : Just change ' jsmith ' to the appropriate short user name , and then save that as a script somewhere , and call from / Library/LaunchDaemons Remember that all files in / Library/LaunchDaemons must be owned by root to be run . ( I think this is what bmike was suggesting ) Another option However , I wrote up a HOWTO for making auto-login more secure : <URL> The executive summary is this : Turn on Automatic login Put this <URL> in ~ / Library/LaunchAgents Reboot What it does : As soon as you login , launchd will throw you back to the login screen using : Note that is all one long line . Considering that someone with physical access to your computer has a lot of potential exploits , I consider this relatively safe , but of course everyone has to make their own determination . I run this in my small office , but my iMac is in my private office which I can lock when I 'm not there . Also note that automatic login does n't work with <URL> .
Yes . Terminal supports escape sequences for manipulating windows , including the size and position , layering , and minimizing . Dimensions can be expressed in pixels or characters . See <URL> for details ( search for " Window manipulation " ; if you 're not familiar with the notation , " CSI " stands for " Control Sequence Introducer " , which is ) . For example , this shell command will set the window to 100x50 characters : Minimize the window for a few seconds , then restore it : Move the window to the top/left corner of the display : Zoom the window : Bring the window to the front ( without changing keyboard focus ) :
It can be enabled via System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > [ Unlock ] > Login Options > Show fast user switching menu as ...
If you go to the Purchases tab in App Store and click on a software title , the description of the app is presented in all its full glory , with screen shots , customer ratings &amp; everything else .
I assume that you 've selected " Start Screen Saver " in the hot-corner in question , correct ? If so , what screen saver do you currently have configured ? The reason that I ask is that some screen savers ( although none of the ones that come with your Mac ) start with the current desktop image and then apply special effects to it over time . So I can imagine if . . you 've configured your screensaver to shuffle through screen savers , and you have installed one of the aforementioned screensavers , ... that this combination could produce the kind of symptoms you are describing . Edit : Interesting . I do n't even have " Lock Screen " as one of the choices on my machine : Edit 2 : I had never tried that option until now . I set up my laptop ( model identifier , 2.93 Ghz ) as you described and put the display to sleep with that hot corner and woke it up over &amp; over again . I went through about 50 iterations , and I was able to reproduce your problem 3 times in that span : the display would appear to blank , but when it woke up I could see my desktop with the login panel overlayed . Because this kind of configuration involves invoking the special power-management circuitry in the machine , there are more moving parts that can go wrong in the process . I believe you have little choice other than to report the problem to Apple , and even if there is a real bug , there will be a chance that the bug is in the power-management circuitry itself and the ' fix ' might only come when you can buy a new machine . Or not . Maybe you could get lucky and there this could be fixed by a firmware update or a point-release of the OS . I like this option , now that you have pointed it out to me . I like that it immediately puts the display to sleep , which makes me feel better about how my battery is being used . Alas , if blanking the screen and keeping it from prying eyes is a higher priority , maybe you should use the " Start Screen Saver " option instead , and set the screensaver to something mostly black like the " Computer Name " screensaver . I wish I could offer more help .
launchd and the Login Items pane of Accounts preferences are the two places that normally start a process when you log in . If you do n't see the item in System Preferences - > Accounts - > specific account - > Login Items then you will have to look into launchd . Basically the LaunchAgents and LaunchDaemons folders in ~ / Library Lastly , if they are not there , then it 's a system level launchd task that you might want to use launchctl to show or look in / Library instead of the user level library . Most people just have to manage the preference pane . Here is a snap of mine showing the Activity Monitor selected and ready to be deleted if I press the -- button .
The dark linen source file is stored in the System Library folder so you will need " root " or administrator permissions to make changes to the directory or the file .
Press the home button and the sleep button simultaneously . This will save a picture of the current iPhone screen to the " Photos " application . From there , you can either email it to anyone you want or sync it to your computer .
This is not possible , nor was it possible with Mobile Me . Particularly irritating when a number of people share an iPad and do n't want to enable full email for each other for example . I 'm afraid there is no way around it , unless perhaps you can download a different browser from the App Store that will enable you to change your user agent string to trick the website into thinking you are using Firefox or something that is n't mobile safari .
That 's a Finder ( on Lion ) issue and as such , there are no settings to tweak for your problem . A faster way to reach the mount window is to simply click the Finder icon in your Dock .
I realise that this thread is probably quite old by now , but for all the options that has been given here , the simplest way has not been discussed . Apple allows you to lock your screen with a keyboard shortcut . You do n't have to create one , there is one built right in to OSX -- via the " Require password after sleep or screensaver " feature . Here is how to use it : Make sure that you have " Require password after sleep or screensaver begins " set to " immediately " . To do this , follow these steps : Open System Preferences Click on Security ( on Lion , " Security &amp; Privacy " ) Go to the General tab If you do n't already have one , put a tick in the box next to " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " Set the time interval to " immediately " Exit System Preferences When now when you want to lock your Mac , simply use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏
Unfortunately this is something that is n't possible . As you are aware , the only control we have over any double-clicking in the " Double-Click Speed " in Mouse preferences . Any changes here would be undesirable as it would affect the entire system and your goal is just the Messages app . There is a convenient keyboard shortcut , Command + W , to close the new window that comes up , so at least you do n't have to go over and manually close the window . I suppose this is a feature request that does n't come up very often but you could at least do what you can and <URL> .
<URL> should help you . From the above-linked splash page : The Word Counter ... gives immediate feedback on your productivity as a writer . encourages you by showing you your daily output . gives you clarity about your daily goals . keeps a complete history of your daily achievements . assists with finding your perfect writing environment . counts what counts : words -- the ultimate metric for writing .
Go to / Library/Preferences ( root library , not ~ ) and locate the file com.apple.dockfixup.plist . Open the file with an application like Dashcode or Textwrangler . Locate the following part under the 10.6.6 section : Delete that section and then save the file ( make sure you keep a backup of the original ) , then either log out and back in , or try .
System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups . Click on your account name in the sidebar and you 'll have the option to change your picture if you mouseover it in the right pane and click edit picture .
[ edit after more research ] You can use Applescript to turn on and off the dock 's autohide . You ca n't use Applescript to determine whether you have open/visible windows . This is because Applescript treats each application as an object , and some applications handle windows differently , meaning they ca n't all be manipulated or detected . I have n't even been able to find an applescript that can reliably count open windows , and there 's absolutely no recent documentation on how to handle spaces with applescript . From within the Script Editor , select File > Open Dictionary , and you will be presented with a list of applications that have dictionaries of scriptable objects &amp; behaviors that you can access . You want to select System Events and search for " dock " . The dock preferences object has the property autohide , which looks like a good bet to do what you want : i.e. turn on autohide when there are open windows , and turn it off when there are n't . You can find more information about what 's available by looking through different dictionaries and reading the documentation . <URL>
Save a script like this as and make it executable with . You can then add a LogoutHook key to with . It can be deleted with . You can run a script at login by adding a LoginHook key or by using launchd . See also these questions about running scripts on <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
end question
start question
What does " CMD + < " do in AZERTY keyboard ?
the shortcut is meant to go to settings of what ever program is running in the foreground ( it will be the program in the upper left corner of your screen ) . However you can customize your shortcut settings in System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard shortcuts
According to Apple 's <URL> : Page Up key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Up Arrow key . Page Down key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Down Arrow key .
Or change the shortcut to something else in System Preferences :
Turns out I had an old version . The new , officially Lion compatible version from the <URL> works fine .
The " o " means that you 're on a 2G network . In Verizon 's case , that would be 1xRTT . If you see it on an AT&amp;T device , that means you 're on GPRS . Here 's a screenshot from the <URL> detailing what the various signal indicators mean : " 3G " means exactly the same thing on the 1st generation iPad as it does on the 3rd generation iPad . However , if you have AT&amp;T , the 3rd generation iPad reports HSDPA + as " 4G " . Since the 1st generation iPad is incapable of using HSDPA + , you will only ever see 3G or below on that device .
From <URL> When you mute your iPad , only certain sounds are muted . Sounds such as alerts , notifications , sound effects , and game audio are muted . Media playback ( such as music , podcasts , movies , videos , and TV shows ) are not muted . So , that would explain why background music/videos are n't muted when I 'm using our iPad .
When Steve Jobs first introduced the iMac in 1998 , he proclaimed that the i stood for Internet . Jobs went on to say , " i also means some other things to us " and displayed a presentation slide with the keywords : internet individual instruct inform inspire You can even view <URL> . The " i " was first used on the iBook and iMac . These were produced as Steve Jobs wanted a pro and consumer model of a desktop and portable computer . This later rolled out with more products , iSight , iPod , iPhone , iPad . Yes the products are trademarked , but using an " i " itself before a product is not trademarked and it can not be . Here is <URL>
HomeBrew is a package manager for mac . It facilitates the installation of different tools by installing and configuring all dependencies as well as the program itself . You can think of it like the Mac App Store for unix apps . If you are familiar with Linux , then Homebrew is exactly like the Linux package manager . For a complete list of everything you can install go here : <URL> If you do n't know what you would need it for , then you probably do n't really need it .
If you hold command and quickly tap tab you will cycle between your two most recently used applications without bringing up the heads up display . If you want to use a third party app <URL> has options to ignore minimized windows .
All computers running Mac OS X contain a feature called Bonjour . It works by sending multicast DNS packets out onto your current network to advertise your computer 's available services . This is how iTunes Sharing works ; your computer tells other computers that it has a shared iTunes library available , and gives the computers instructions on where to connect to it . Over the past few weeks , I have been experimenting with an extension of the service called Wide Area Bonjour . Instead of sending out multicast DNS packets to your local network , it sends out similar packets to an actual DNS server , which with the correct authentication , updates actual zones in the DNS server . This essentially allows you to use the magic of Bonjour across many networks , or even the Internet . All that 's required is that each computer that is interested in your Bonjour domain has the domain listed in its " Search Domains " ( or " DNS Suffix " ) . The service I have been testing out is Global Hostname , which will host a Wide Area Bonjour-enabled zone for you , either on your own domain , or a subdomain of globalhostname.org . Apple 's AirPort product range feature Wide Area Bonjour to enable you to control your AirPort from wherever you are . Added : Its purpose is to provide features similar to those offered by " Back to My Mac " without using the . Mac/MobileMe service . It requires that you have your own DNS server . If your service provider supports secure dynamic DNS update ( RFC 3007 ) , you can provide your Mac with a global DNS hostname so that other computers outside your local network can refer to it by name . Even if your computer 's IP address changes at regular intervals , your computer will automatically update its global DNS hostname to point to its current IP address . Your service provider or domain administrator will provide you with the necessary user name and password so your Mac can update its hostname every time its address changes . If your service provider supports Wide-Area Bonjour registrations , you can also select the " Advertise services in this domain using Bonjour " checkbox to advertise this computer 's active Sharing services in this domain . If the domain 's administrator enabled Bonjour browsing for this domain , other computers will see the services listed automatically in the respective application , based on the Search Domains entered in their Network preferences or based on information returned by DHCP . :)
You can use <URL> to for example turn the right option into an extra modifier key for opening applications : See <URL> for more examples . If you have bought the Powerpack for <URL> , you can use workflows like this : Hotkeys have a short delay by default , but you can reduce it by changing the trigger behavior :
The thunderbolt display actually has a number of additional peripherals in it : Gigabit-Ethernet Network interface card . Firewire 800 interface 4 USB ports on a PCIe-USB adapter Webcam ( " Facetime " ) camera ( connected internally via USB to the USB-PCIe adapter ) Speakers and a microphone ( ditto ) It also has a laptop charger ( magjack ) for convenience . This is accomplished via the fact that <URL> can carry PCIe signals in addition to the normal display image , so the peripherals in the display act like they 're built into the laptop . Thunderbolt combines PCI Express ( PCIe ) and DisplayPort ( DP ) into a serial data interface that can be carried over a single cable . Thunderbolt controller chips multiplex data lanes from these two sources for transmission via a duplex Thunderbolt lane then de-multiplex them for consumption from receiver chips . There is actually the potential to even have an entire GPU in the external display , though no current devices implement the option .
If you 're just looking for the Unicode versions of Mac OS X keys , you can use <URL> to copy and paste them from the text box . More generally , Mac OS X provides a pane to insert special characters . You 'll typically find it under Edit - > Special Characters in any program that takes text input . The Command key symbol can be found under Symbols - > Technical Symbols . To insert the character , select it and click " Insert " . If you 're really hardcore and are looking for a way to type the character by entering the Unicode hex code , this is possible : Go into System Preferences - > Language &amp; Text - > Input Sources and check " Unicode Hex Input " 2 . From the input source selector in the menu bar , select " Unicode Hex Input " 3 . To enter a Unicode character , hold down option and type the 4-digit hex code for the character and it will be inserted . In this case , it would be option +2318 .
If you ca n't work out what " Always Allow " does , I would suggest running something like <URL> to see what OS X changes . If it hits a plist file then you 'll be able to run defaults on it . I 'm assuming its probably in the com.apple.applicationaccess.plsit . ( But not tested )
The Control key is used as a modifier for various purposes in different applications . In OS X , it is also used for Emacs bindings supported in many applications . The <URL> that is recommended for application developers discourages the use of the Control key ( the closest equivalent to the Control modifier key in Windows is the Command key on OS X ) : As much as possible , avoid using the Control key . Because the Control key is already used by some of the universal access features -- as well as in Cocoa text fields where Emacs-style key bindings are often used -- it should be used as a modifier key only when necessary . Here are some examples of shortcuts from <URL> : Sleep and shutdown shortcuts with Control Command-Control-power button Force your Mac to restart Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Show restart/sleep/shutdown dialog Command-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer Command-Option-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer Shift-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Put all displays to sleep Finder shortcuts with Control Command-Control-I Get Summary Info Command-Control-Up Arrow Open the folder that contains the current folder in a new window Application and other OS X shortcuts with Control ( may not work in some applications ) Control-A Move to beginning of line/paragraph Control-B Move one character backward Control-D Delete the character in front of the cursor Control-E Move to end of line/paragraph Control-F Move one character forward Control-H Delete the character behind the cursor Control-K Delete from the character in front of the cursor to the end of the line/paragraph Control-L Center the cursor/selection in the visible area Control-N Move down one line Control-O Insert a new line after the cursor Control-P Move up one line Control-T Transpose the character behind the cursor and the character in front of the cursor Control-V Move down one page Control-Tab Move focus to the next grouping of controls in a dialog or the next table ( when Tab moves to the next cell ) Shift-Control-Tab Move focus to the previous grouping of controls Control-F1 Toggle full keyboard access on or off Control-F2 Move focus to the menu bar Control-F3 Move focus to the Dock Control-F4 Move focus to the active ( or next ) window Shift-Control-F4 Move focus to the previously active window Control-F5 Move focus to the toolbar . Control-F6 Move focus to the first ( or next ) panel Shift-Control-F6 Move focus to the previous panel Control-F7 Temporarily override the current keyboard access mode in windows and dialogs Control-F8 Move to the status menus in the menu bar Command-Option-Control-Comma ( , ) Decrease screen contrast Command-Option-Control-Period ( . ) Increase screen contrast Command-Shift-Control-3 Capture the screen to the Clipboard Command-Shift-Control-4 Capture a selection to the Clipboard Command-Control-C Copy the formatting settings of the selected item and store on the Clipboard Command-Control-D Display the definition of the selected word in the Dictionary application Command-Control-V Apply formatting settings to the selected object ( Paste Ruler Command ) Control-Right Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Left Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Down Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Up Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Space bar Toggle between the current and previous input sources Option-Control-Space bar Toggle through all enabled input sources Universal
Insert a comment ⌘ + OPTION+A Turn track changes on or off ⌘ + SHIFT+E From <URL>
This searches your online Facebook and Flickr account for any images that have been uploaded since your last Aperture upload . If there are new images in your Facebook or Flikcr albums these will be catalogued into Aperture .
You could use an application like Alfred or Automator services to assign shortcuts for opening folders : If you want to open the folders over the current Finder window , you could use <URL> to assign shortcuts to scripts like this : <URL> allows adding custom shortcuts that work in both file dialogs and Finder .
From <URL> : Home &amp; Lock Screen . This indicates that the Home screen or Lock screen was displayed on your device . For example , the display was awakened by pressing the Home button or by a notification . If an app frequently wakes your display with notifications , you can turn off push notifications for the app in Settings > Notifications . Tap App and set Allow Notifications to Off .
The first part of the sync error message means exactly what it says - your iPhone can only be associated with a single iTunes library . The second half is tricky for people that are analytical , but for most users it 's meant to make them want to back up their phone before they erase it . Regardless of how you choose to copy your content ( sync manually or automatic ) it maintains a connection to a single library to which is is allowed to copy music/films/apps etc to and from , and where backups/restores etc can be made . Unless you know exactly what was synced - you could be inadvertently erasing some content hence the scary general error message . If you introduce your iPhone to a new iTunes library , then it can remove any content that is associated with the previous one . Assuming you still have access to the old one you can copy the files from one computer to another to enable you to sync them back again after , or you can transfer the purchases to the new iTunes library assuming it has been authorised using the same Apple ID . This is an attempt to limit unauthorised copying of music and other content etc , otherwise you could happily take your phone or iPod around to all your friends laptops and merrily copy all their stuff onto your device , where you could then happily sync it back to your iTunes library at home . Other phone content , like emails , contacts , settings should remain unaffected , as these are not held within the iTunes library ( even if you have set iTunes to be the sync mechanism for putting them on your phone , they belong outside of the library . Rule of thumb : if the original iTunes copied the content on in the first place , it will be removed . It wo n't just wipe the whole phone , just what came from iTunes .
end question
start question
How can I open a file with extension DAA on Mac ?
According to <URL> , . daa is an extension related to the PowerIso application . <URL> suggests an open source application - <URL> . The app page states : DAA Converter is a free utility for converting DAA &amp; GBI disk images to ISO format so they can be accessed on your Mac . DAA Converter is a native GUI application which wraps the command-line tool , DAA2ISO/GBI2ISO , by Luigi Auriemma . It runs on Mac OS X 10.3 Panther or later . I do n't have any . daa files to test with , so I ca n't verify that this utility works . However , it 's a GPL freeware app , so it would n't hurt to give it a shot .
Command ⌘ - Shift ⇧ -3 will save a screenshot of the whole screen to your desktop . Command ⌘ - Control ⌃ - Shift ⇧ -3 copies it to your clipboard . ⌘ - ⇧ -4 lets you drag to take a shot of a portion of the screen , or press Space to select a specific window . Add Control ⌃ to the mix to copy to to the clipboard . You can view and change these in the Keyboard pane of System Preferences , under the Keyboard Shortcuts tab :
A PList file , like Mankoff said , is just a specially formatted XML file , so you can actually edit and create them in a program like TextEdit . Because of the specific nature of PLists to Development , however , using a special program like or becomes a much more fruitful endeavor . This is because it not only automatically formats the XML code for you , but it will actually translate the key identifiers and layers into readable words , and also for some values it will provide a drop-down menu to fill in the correct responses . Especially when dealing with iPhone plists , when multiple runtime variables can be set using the Plist , easily creating new fields and knowing what to put in them makes it so much easier . You can get bot Xcode and PList Editor from the Apple Developer website <URL> for free by downloading the latest Xcode release .
<URL> is the best tool I 've found for recovering files . It does have some baffling limitations however , like the fact that it ca n't recover . dmg files . It 's a command line program but still very easy to use . And it 's free :) <URL> on their wiki makes it even easier .
As of Mac OS X Lion 10.7 , Terminal provides Services for opening a new terminal window or tab at the selected folder in Finder . They also work with absolute pathnames selected in text ( in any application ) . You can enable these services with System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Services . Look for " New Terminal at Folder " and " New Terminal Tab at Folder " . You can also assign them shortcut keys . In addition , you can now drag folders ( and pathnames ) onto the Terminal application icon to open a new terminal window , or onto a tab bar in a terminal window to create a new tab in that window . If you drag onto a tab ( rather than into the terminal view ) it will execute a complete command to switch to that directory without any additional typing . As of OS X Mountain Lion 10.8 , Command-Dragging into a terminal will also execute a complete command .
You want to remove " write permission " from the file , so it can not be written to . If you block MobileMe from writing to it , you will also be blocking the application from writing to it , which could cause problems . Via the command line : From the Finder , do CMD+I ( Get Info ) , and under " Sharing &amp; Permissions " at the bottom , set it to read only . If you need to write to the file ( perhaps for the application to work properly ) , you can temporarily make it write-able , or approach this with a different solution . For example , you could use DropBox , link the file to DropBox from all your Snow Leopard computers , and just not link the file on the Lion computer .
Yes , the application is called " Photo Booth , " and lives , I 'm pretty sure , in / Applications/Photo Booth.app After you 've taken a photo , you can drag an image to the desktop or to a folder in the Finder to save as a jpg image .
The iMate was the only converter available on the market . If you do get an iMate , the only thing it will work with these days are keyboards and mice . It internally converts ADB keyboard and mice commands to USB keyboard and mice commands , so it will just make your ADB mouse and keyboard look like a USB mouse and keyboard to the computer , no drivers required . In ~ 2001 there was a driver for the iMate that would actually configure it as an ADB bus the computer could see , that way anything with real ADB drivers could use it just like a builtin port . That driver has not been updated in years , and Apple dropped all ADB support from OS X , so at this point USB emulation is the only thing it does . Not that there were many ( any ? ) interesting ADB devices that were supported under Mac OS X anyway .
The Tags feature in Finder1 already has a keyboard shortcut which can be activated whilst in Quick Look . Press ⌘ ⇧ T to set a tag on the currently selected file . To set a custom shortcut ... Open System Preferences → Keyboard → Shortcuts → App Shortcuts . Click the + button to add a new shortcut . Set the Application to Finder.app , and the Menu Title to Tags ... . Set your keyboard shortcut and press Add . 1 As this is a feature of Finder , not Quick Look , the modal popup may be behind the Quick Look window .
Mac OS X recognizes TrueType and OpenType fonts ( . ttf and . otf ) but not the PC bitmap fonts ( . fon ) . So depending on the copyrights of the fonts you may transfer the . ttf and . otf font files . To install the fonts : Under Mac OS X 10.3 or above ( including the FontBook ) Double-click the font file > " Install font " button at the bottom of the preview . Under any version of Mac OS X : Put the files into / Library/Fonts ( for all users ) , or into / Users/Your _ username/Library/Fonts ( for you only ) .
Assuming that the InstallESD.dmg is on the windows 7 computer : Copy the InstallESD.dmg file onto the USB drive ( just copy , not burning etc ) Boot into the MacBook 's Recovery Partition . Plug in the USB drive and open disk utility . Restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on the USB drive * Restart and boot from the USB Drive . * You might not be able to restore from an image that on the drive being restored . In which case use 2 USB drives ( one to copy the InstallESD.dmg from the PC and one to restore it to and boot from ) or : open terminal from the Utilities menu in the recovery partition ( on the homescreen ) . Use to find the location of your hard drive and USB drive Use to copy the InstallESD.dmg to you hard drive . ( e.g. , where you replace the paths with the ones found in step 2 ) Open Disk Utility and restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on your hard drive , if you ca n't find your hard drive in the Open dialog , press cmd + shift + g and you can enter the path manually . Or if your USB CD drive can burn DVDs and you have a DVD , you could use the USB drive to copy from windows and then use the Macbook 's Disk Utility to burn the image to the DVD . ( or use the DVD to copy from the PC and use the USB drive to boot )
This is a bit old , but nothing is drastically different in 10.8 : <URL> This a simple Service for creating new files the currently-open folder in Finder , using AppleScript and Automator . Start by launching Automator , and in the chooser that appears , select Service . This will open a new Automator window , set up to create a Service . In that window , do the following : Set the Service to receive selected folders in Finder ( the two drop-down menus at the top of the work area on the right ) . This makes it easier to assign a keyboard shortcut to our service , which we 'll do at the end . Drag and drop the ' Run AppleScript ' action ( in the Utilities Library ) into the work area on the right . Paste in the following AppleScript , then click the Hammer icon ( to compile the code ) : Drag and drop the ' Set value of a variable ' action from the Utilities Library , and create a new variable called , for example , CurrentFolder . ( Do this by clicking on the drop-down menu . ) Drag and drop the New Text File action from the Text library into the work area . Then drag CurrentFolder from the Variable panel at the bottom of the Automator window to the Where entry of the New Text File action . Click the Options button in the action , and click the ' Show this action when the workflow runs ' box . This makes it possible to change the name and extension of the new file . Save the service as ' Create New File , ' or whatever you like . Test your new action using the Services menu in Finder , to make sure it works ( select a folder , Control-click , and you should see your new Service at the bottom of the contextual menu ) . On the Keyboard Shortcuts tab of the Keyboard System Preferences panel , select Services in the left-hand column , and your new service ( it should be in the Files and Folders section ) in the right-hand panel . Assign a keyboard shortcut to the new Service by double-clicking to the right of the Service 's name . Switch back to Automator and change the leftmost drop-down menu ( at the top of the work area ) to No Input , then save the Service again .
In your open/save window , press Cmd-Shift-G to open a window where you can paste the path . This also works in Finder .
It will still take 30 clicks , one for each link , but ... Remember that Cmd ⌘ on Mac is usually equivalent to Ctrl ⌃ on Windows . Cmd ⌘ Click will open a link in a new a tab behind the current one , if you click a link . Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ Click will open the new tab &amp; bring it to the front . These are the default settings [ iirc ] but they can be changed in Prefs ... Edit : Sorry , I only just realised you said Chrome . It does follow the same behaviour , though I ca n't find anywhere to actually change it .
( with the ↩ symbol ) opens the folder for browsing its contents ( unless you 're in column view ) . You need to press instead . It 's a different key , and its symbol is ⌤ . If you do n't have that key on your keyboard , you can press to achieve the same effect .
Never mind ! I found the answer here : <URL> I will delete this question now ! EDIT - Since some are upvoting this question , I will echo the <URL> in the linked question ( supplied by @slhck ) . A straightforward solution exists , because AppleScript specifically offers a command designed to do exactly what I 'm looking for . And that will make the file extension visible !
Both return and command + O work to open files in my version of coda . Is your enter key only an enter key or combined ? It does n't look like that plug in changes key bindings so you might have to search elsewhere for something that is altering the standard behavior . Other tweaks or software possibly ?
The Synology NAS supports a Network Recycle bin , but only for SMB volumes . Therefore if you want to make use of it from your Mac , you need to access the share via SMB and not AFP . This can be enabled from the under . The Synology by itself fully supports Time Machine , and can act as a Time Capsule . Most of the documentation on the Internet mention the Network Trash and Time Capsule option in the same place , but as an Windows/Mac comparison type description . The manual for DSM does not mention Network Trash for Mac either , only for Samba . I am not entirely sure where you read that the Synology supports this feature for OSX , since I could n't find any reference to it in the way you described . OSX , unlike the previous OS 9 , does not support a of any kind , and I am not aware of any plans to bring this feature to OSX . Therefore it also ca n't be activated from the OS layer . I suspect the naming was changed from Network Trash to CIFS Recycle Bin in the new DSM by Synology because of the confusion it has caused .
This is difficult to do by design , and unless you have root access to your machine none of the following will work as they require root to setup the changes . Once changed , though , userspace programs will have access without having root . There are two common ways to accomplish this , and which you choose will depend on why you 're trying to work around the restriction : Point port 80 to another port , such as 8080 By reconfiguring your machine to pass all port 80 traffic to port 8080 , or any port of your choosing , then you can allow user space servers to receive root privilege ports in the area they are given access to . The process is straightforward : Step 1 : View current firewall rules . Step 2 : Add port forwarding rule ( 80 to 8080 ) If you want to remove your firewall rules run : sudo ipfw flush ( <URL> ) This is a temporary change , and will revert once you reboot , or flush as indicated int he last line . You can <URL> , or you could add the command as a startup line prior to starting your server , which is probably safer from the standpoint of security . Use Authbind Authbind was designed specifically to allow one program access to lower level ports without giving it full root access . There is an OS X port : <URL> It may still be limited to IPv4 traffic , though , you may have to do some additional investigation to find if it meets your needs .
The default behavior is for iCloud Photo Library not to store full-size versions of your photos on your iPhone and iPad : The theory is that only thumbnails are stored on your iPhone/iPad until you decide to view/edit/share the photo , at which point a device-optimized or full-size version of your photo is downloaded from iCloud . ( Note : I know a full-size copy is downloaded when you edit/share , but it appears that if your iPhone has plenty of space it will download a full-size copy for viewing as well , as opposed to just a device-optimized version . This is likely to avoid having to do a second download later if you decide to share the photo . ) When you start running low on space , iOS will begin pruning less-accessed photos and return to simply thumbnails or device-optimized versions of those . All of this happens automatically in the background and you should n't have to worry about managing space yourself .
end question
start question
Accessing wireless from my Macbook ?
This should work , but , as this is working with tech , you never know : Open System Preferences . Select Network . Select " Wi-Fi " on the sidebar ( AirPort if you 're running SL or earlier ) . Click " Advanced ... " in the lower right . On the Wi-Fi tab , click the plus sign beneath " Preferred Networks " . Enter the name of the network that you want to connect to . In the security drop-down , select " Any ( Enterprise ) " . Log in with your username and password . Press OK .
This should work , but , as this is working with tech , you never know : Open System Preferences . Select Network . Select " Wi-Fi " on the sidebar ( AirPort if you 're running SL or earlier ) . Click " Advanced ... " in the lower right . On the Wi-Fi tab , click the plus sign beneath " Preferred Networks " . Enter the name of the network that you want to connect to . In the security drop-down , select " Any ( Enterprise ) " . Log in with your username and password . Press OK .
On Linux , the <URL> project aims to support decoding FileVault2 . Yogesh Khatri wrote an <URL> where he suggests starting with <URL> . On Windows , the company Passware claim support for decrypting FileVault2 drives as part of <URL> . A <URL> mentions the software and highlights the feature in an included screenshot :
It depends how " minus " . In general , li-on batteries live longer if you respect their acceptable operating temperatures . In the case of your Macbook Pro , <URL> has a dedicated page with tips about Battery Maintenance . If you observe the temperature graph on the left , the Minus degrees are not in the " I like this " zone . Truth is , your MBP will get warm relatively fast , but if your MBP is at 0ºC , I 'd wait a little bit . At those temperatures , depending upon the dew point and the humidity ( among other factors ) the risk of running moisture is higher , especially if the MBP will start heating fast when you turn it on . Just let the machine heat for a few minutes at room temperature to be safe . Of course , if you have to use it one day , the battery is not going to die on you . Remember , extreme temperatures are enemies of batteries ! The cold Swedish tundra is not a friendly place for a Li-on battery :)
The Bluetooth profile necessary for stereo audio , <URL> , is <URL> ( aka " Leopard " ) . As you use 10.4 ( aka " Tiger " ) , the answer to the first part of your question is : Bluetooth audio only works in 64 kbit/s mono quality via the <URL> in 10.4 . Probably not what you want for music listening , even if the headphones support it . As to the second part of your question : You are stuck with wireless solutions working via the audio jack , USB or FireWire . In the case of USB / FW solutions ( if such wireless solutions exist ) , check these for 10.4 compatibility before you invest .
While not available until this summer , the next version of the Mac OS ( Mountain Lion ) will allow you use <URL> . From the site : Your Mac is on TV . This new feature in Mountain Lion is made for an audience . With AirPlay Mirroring , you can stream what 's on your Mac to your HDTV via Apple TV . Show web pages and videos to friends on the couch . Share lessons with a classroom . Present to a conference room . It 's a big deal for your Mac . And for everyone around it .
If your Macbook Pro has the single 3.5 mm jack that can take input and output then iRig should work just fine for you . Someone asked <URL> . If you 're looking for something ultra cheap you could always get a 1/4 " to 3.5 mm adaptor to plug your guitar into your Mac . I did this for a very long time until I could afford higher quality hardware . These things run as low as $ 2 at some places , <URL> for example . Hope this helps !
Assuming your computer has a magnetic drive ( and not a SSD ) , when you close the lid , it will take a few seconds for the computer to write some things to the hard-drive ; even if it looks fast , it really takes a few secs of " background activity " . It could be 1 sec , but it 's there . So as a general rule , it 's always good to gently close the lid ( hitting the lid with the keyboard can cause damage to the screen and the hard-drive if it 's too strong ) , and give the computer a couple of seconds to process the sleep state . Once you 're sure that the box is sleeping , you can pack it up and carry it , always remembering that the Hard-Drive is a mechanical device and as such , it 's very fragile ( compared to other pieces ) . This does n't mean that you have to treat your box as if it were <URL> , but mechanical drives and hits are not friends . With that said , I 've seen laptops fall from 1 meter ( tables ) to the floor and work for years without a hard drive failure , and on the other hand , small hits against a table ( by raising the laptop 1 cm and letting it fall onto a table ) rendered hard drives inoperative . So as you can see the drives tend to be more fragile than not , even when you can never be sure . I remember about 10 years ago , we were on vacations and for some reason , one of the guys found a box of <URL> and we started a fight . Note : They hit really hard and I have pictures of a candy tatooed in my back in red . All in all , one of these candies bounced and hit a guy 's laptop while he was creating a playlist in WinAmp ( yeah , we were that old ) . The computer crashed ( Windows XP ) and the hard drive never worked again . The candy story was just a way to illustrate that you can never be sure about hard drives . Regarding a car : unless you 're going to go to the <URL> , there should n't be a problem . Remember , vibrations and hits may hurt your hard drive , keep it as quiet as possible . they guy whose laptop broke still hates us . I have an old macbook that I carry everywhere , on and off and I drop in bed , I move it , I put things on top of it ( books , etc ) . and it still works ...
Probably not , but you can use the ExpressCard slot instead The model you mentioned ( 17 " MacBookPro8 ,3 late 2011 ) does seem to have a separate Wifi/bluetooth assembly , but you 'll probably have a very hard time finding a matching replacement in both size and connection . I did n't find a disassembled 17 " model , but the card in the 15 " of the same generation <URL> ( 4 antenna connectors and what is probably some sort of PCI Express cable ) . However , since yours is a 17 " , it does have an ExpressCard slot , where you can stick in a Wifi card of your choosing ( <URL> ) without even having to take the whole machine apart . Or patch around your Linux kernel with one of the BCM4331 drivers that are out there , but I assume you 've already tried that .
You can do something to try to make your macbook run a bit cooler : If you are using an external monitor you can disable the internal screen , while leaving the lid open . This reduces the stress on the GPU and improves cooling : use a ( very small ) magnet to make the macbook think that the lid is closed . See my answer here : <URL> You can disable the CPU turbo boost . One easy way is using this utility : <URL> Also , make sure you have trim configured on your SSD .
Remove it from the list of " Preferred Networks " and it will stop auto-connecting . Go to " System Preferences " > " Networks " prefpane . Choose " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " on Lion ) on the left . Click the " Advanced " button . In the resulting sheet , choose the " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " ) tab . ( It should be the leftmost . ) Select your neighbor 's wifi network in the list and hit the " - " ( minus ) button . Live with joy at never [ auto - ] connecting there again !
It could just be bonjour or some other background network process or daemon communicating . You do n't have to be explicitly browsing the web to be using network traffic Bonjour - Is a set of networking protocols to allow different machines to see each other with zero configuration . Daemon - Is just a process that runs unattended in the background . Several hundred bytes is a tiny amount of traffic , it 's nothing significant . If you would like to monitor which ports are open , use " netstat " at the terminal
If the wireless printer has joined the network , OS X should see it listed as a nearby printer . From the Print &amp; Scan pane in System Preferences , click the Plus ( ) button in the lower left , and it should show up in the popup menu . If it does n't , select " Add Other Printer or Scanner ... " In the resulting window , the " Default " Tab will show all local Bonjour printers , as well as any connected directly via USB . If you know the local IP of the printer you want to add , you can enter this in the IP tab .
Go to <URL> and register . Then <URL> and <URL> . This will then connect to <URL> and update your DNS information whenever your Mac is connected to the internet . You could then use SSH or other means to log onto your Mac from an iPhone or other computer/Mac by connecting to the URL ( e.g. - mymacbook.dyndns.com ) you select upon registering on dyndns.com . There are another couple of steps . You need to get your broadband router to forward traffic coming in on specific ports to your Mac . You should be able to find a how-to on <URL> for your router model . You also need to setup a static IP for your Mac which is best done on your router . Your routers documentation should tell you how to do this .
Your MacBook Pro HDMI port is output only . So no , you can not use it as input for your recording . Your alternatives are USB 3 or Thunderbolt .
You can only share Internet from an Ethernet , Bluetooh , or FireWire connection over Wi-Fi . That 's because you can only use your Wi-Fi connection for one thing at a time . If you 're connecting to the Internet over Wi-Fi you wo n't be able to share that connection over Wi-Fi . If you 've got Share your connection from : set to Wi-Fi , it 's normal that To computers using : does n't have a Wi-Fi option :
Upgrade your HDD with a SSD The hard drive is a common bottleneck in computing these days . This is due to the fact , that processors have become faster at computing . The hard drive can not keep up with the CPU . Because it 's slow , the CPU is not stressed as much as it could be : <URL> . See <URL> <URL> for a comparsion of a SDD to a HDD in a Macbook Pro . Upgrade RAM If your amount of RAM is insufficient , you will see lots of page-outs . Data which should be written to the RAM will be written to the hard drive instead . Because the hard drive 's input/output operations are much slower than the RAM 's , this slows down your computer . However , if your amount of RAM is sufficient already , you will not notice a benefit from a RAM upgrade . You can check how much page-outs there are using the which is located in . There are no official recommendations I know of as to what the ratio of page-ins to page-outs should be . Generally , you need to know that the more page-outs you have , the better your system could perform if you were to upgrade your RAM . I myself aim for a ratio of no more than 5 to 1 ( 20 % , page-in vs page-out ) Activity Monitor & #x 2192 ; System Memory : Clean install If you installed the upgrade ' over the top ' this will be like a ' software factory reset ' . Mostly you 'll notice a better performance because no other software has been installed yet . Still , a clean install helps in removing remains of uninstalled software but should be an ultimate measure for tackling problems that do not want to be solved otherwise .
It is possible , although not from Apple themselves . A company called OWC seem to specialise in SSD upgrades for macbook 's and have upgrades for your model <URL> These particular upgrades offer greater speed and capacity to some of the stock apple SSD 's from 2011 .
If you 're running OS X Lion , you need you use ... <URL> The other post only refers to InsomniaX 1 - which does not work in Lion .
I found a solution that works for my needs : As it turns out , I should not lock the screen , but instead start the screensaver , and require the screensaver to immediately require a password . I created a ' Start Screensaver ' service with Automator , and then selected a keyboard shortcut for that service under Settings - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts - > Services .
end question
start question
How practical is an iPad for " reading " programming books ?
I use GoodReader for reading Apple manuals , synced via Dropbox . GR remembers positions in all PDFs I read . It also keeps all my annotations and highlights in sync with PDFs on my Mac . Overall , very convenient solution IMHO .
I just do n't believe that thing that you want yet exists1 . But ... 1 ) There is <URL> which supports text highlighting for Python , Ruby , CSS and HTML and it supports FTP , SFTP and WebDAV connectivity ( but no version control support ) . It highlights 80 different file formats but not Django templates ( you can edit them like it 's just html ) . 2 ) <URL> supports online editing for any files under version control using their <URL> ( of course it 's not an app and it does n't support mercurial yet , but anyway if you like DVCS you should like Git and their Hub too :) . 3 ) <URL> . That 's what you need for mercurial and Django right ? But , Python is scriptable language which is distributed under <URL> so Apple can just remove <URL> from their App Store ( because they do n't like scripting stuff on their iOS devices and <URL> ) 1 That 's mainly because it 's too amazing to exist .
I have n't used it - so I ca n't say if it 's any good - but I noticed that you did n't include the <URL> in your list . Have you tried using that to view your ePub books ?
The closest analog I know of for general purpose document organizing in an " everything box " similar to iPhoto/iTunes would be Yojimbo . <URL> It lets you catalog and organize information in quite powerful ways . Also check out <URL> if you want files to be in the cloud and do n't already use a service for syncing . I 've heard <URL> is also worth investigating but never really known anyone that used it or tried it myself . Finder is capable of using tags and smart searches , but most people that are inclined to do that have already come up with a folder hierarchy that uses the filesystem for storage and spotlight for indexing files . It really depends on how much time you want to invest in cataloging and the volume and type of files you are organizing .
A cursory look at the iTunes Store reveals <URL> ( iTunes Store Link ) . Since you can not compile on the iPad itself , this app leverages a web service ( <URL> ) in order to run the program and return the results to your device . The app is USD$ 3 and a universal binary ( iPhone + iPad ) . The web service appears to be free , if not just a little ugly :) .
There 's no difference besides the storage capacity . As the iPhone does not have an option to extend the memory after purchase , you have to choose the right amount of storage right from the beginning . You can always manage how much space you use by manually choosing which data to sync ( music , photos , movies , apps ) . Generally more available space gives you the freedom of not having to manage your sync settings too much . 16GB should be fine for most people , especially if they are willing to make compromises regarding sync settings . 32GB is good if your like to take lots of photos or have a large music library . 64GB is good if you record HD movies which increase in size very quickly the longer you record .
every few weeks ( 3 or 4 ) , disconnect the iPad and use it until you have about 50-75 % battery left , then charge/connect it again and your battery will not suffer at all .
Yes of course you can turn it into a specialized device for engineering and homework . For project management tools , look at the Omni group , and then their competition . I do n't know if there are <URL> , but I would expect so . Have you searched ? Python and C can be developed natively on the device if you jailbreak it . I
Microsoft has released a version of <URL> It is available in the App Store for users with OS X 10.9 or later .
Although there is no way to browse the store directly , there is this website which searches the iBookstore for a particular title or author . It also searches the Kindle and Nook stores . <URL>
This <URL> recommends a bookmarklet that you can install that allows you to tap an image to display its alt text . Try that - works great for me on my iPhone .
Under Mail / Preferences / Accounts and selecting your account and then Advanced , you 'll find an option to Keep copies of message for offline viewing . Just choose All messages and their attachments .
Using remote desktop tools , yes . For example , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> come to mind immediately .
Letter . A4 is slightly longer and narrower than US Letter , and would result in wider borders at the side to fit a full page vertically . US Letter wo n't fit perfectly , but the aspect ratio of it 's dimensions are a much closer fit to the iPads 4:3 ( or 3:4 in portrait ) screen and the slimmer borders top and bottom would be less noticeable than the A4 equivalent : or 6 % too long when scaled to fit the shortest edge , resulting in vertical borders when scaled to fit the longest edge or 3 % too short when scaled to fit the shortest edge , resulting in horizontal borders when scaled to fit the longest edge See <URL> for good comparative info and <URL> for a ratio calculator
I had that configuration - and also used for friends &amp; family - and it worked just fine . The only drawback is that mail is no longer pushed to your phone . But apart from that , it 's the best solution to have Gmail ( actually working ) and Google Contacts / Calendar on your iPhone .
Well , I do n't think there is official support for third-party access to the reading list from Apple , but I know they are stored in this file on the Mac , and I would assume it is the same on iOS , or close to : ~ / Library/Safari/Bookmarks . plist Just look for a key that has an entry named " Title " and a key value of " com.apple.ReadingList " . It 's the last one in my own file , but I do n't expect it to be like this all the way . And I suggest looking at it with a property list editor , like Xcode 4 , it 's a binary property list , does n't look right when opened in TextEdit or other similar app .
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
Without jailbreaking , I believe your options are the use of apps that provide this kind of lock functionality built-in , unless Apple decide to implement some kind of <URL> in future iOS versions for devices like the iPad . I 've previously come across <URL> or <URL> ( there may well be others ) which provide passcode protection schemes when starting and , judging by the screenshots , appear to be frontends to the relevant webmail pages ( as opposed to a native application like the Apple Mail app ) . I 've not used either , but they may be of use to you .
The iBooks app is better . But Amazon Kindle Store is cheaper and has a superior selection . The books Publishers are responsible for creating and making available the books in each store . Sometimes a book is exclusive to one store . In that case , you have no option of where you purchase it . When a book is available in both stores , you must compare the price and quality on a book-by-book basis . This is easy to do because both stores offer free sample chapters . Books tend to be better formatted in the iBooks Store than in Kindle 's Store . This can be critical for some genres , such as technical/programming books with graphics , code samples , and tables . The ecosystem iBookstore purchases can only be read on iPhone/iPod touch/iPad/Mac . Kindle purchases can also be read on Amazon 's dedicated Kindle devices , Microsoft Windows , iOS , BlackBerry , Mac OS X , Android , webOS , Windows Phone , as well as in a web browser . The apps iBooks app : better interface ( you even can turn off the skeuomorphic design features , if you prefer ) it has less features , but the features it does have are better : dictionary , highlighting , type/fonts , footnotes , navigation , look and feel better PDF support iBookstore built-into-the-app for convenient browsing and purchasing Kindle app : Sharing feature where you can publicly publish snippets from your book to kindle.amazon.com for linking-to in Twitter/Facebook . <URL> Amazon creates an email address for you to send documents to your Kindle via email . E.g. yourname@kindle.com Con : You have to jump out to the web browser to browse and purchase content . On an iPad , I prefer reading in iBooks because Apple executes the fundamentals better . Amazon 's Kindle app has some nice differentiating features , though . All that said , at the end of the day , nothing 's better than reading a basic novel on a standalone e-ink Kindle device .
Ok , it turns out that if you use AirDrop to send the Playground book to yourself , iOS offers to open it in the Swift Playgrounds app .
end question
