start question
How to make the Backspace key to take me to the previous page in Safari 6 ?
I actually asked a <URL> ( but more broad so this is n't a duplicate ) . I got this as an answer ( it works , I tested it ) : Write the below line in terminal : defaults write com.apple.Safari com.apple.Safari.ContentPageGroupIdentifier.WebKit2BackspaceKeyNavigationEnabled - bool YES Then restart Safari . Hope this helps !
There are a few extensions that will add a nice download button to the Youtube video page , and give you the option to download in various resolutions . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also try <URL> , which does a lot more than just offer a download link , but it does that , and it 's one of my favourite extensions . Makes watching web video much nicer .
Searching in a page has been added on to the Google ( or whatever you use ) search facility . Just tap the search field and enter your search term . Instead of launching the search , scroll down to the bottom of the suggested searches and there will be a section labeled " On This Page " . Tapping " Find " _____ " " will launch the in-page search feature .
Unlike Chrome , Safari does n't seems to use a webpage for the top sites but rather another programmatic view . As you might have seen , the webinspector does n't work on this page .
It sounds like you 're using Gmail , in which case , have you checked the All Mail folder ? Gmail treats things a little differently , and I believe the default action for " delete " when using Mail.app with Gmail is actually what Google calls " archive " . It does n't delete it from the server , it just removes it from all folders ( labels in Gmail-speak ) , but the message still lives in the All Mail folder.Check there for your messages , and you may find this previous answer helpful : <URL> If you 're not using Gmail , or that did n't work , try this : In Mail , open the Preferences ( ⌘ command - , ) In the Preferences window , click the Accounts panel and select the applicable account in the sidebar as shown here : Select the Mailbox Behaviours tab Make sure the Move deleted messages to the Trash Mailbox setting is checked : If it 's already checked , make sure your Trash is set up properly , by selecting the mailbox you want in the main sidebar , then goto the Mailbox Menu , and choose Use This Mailbox For ‣ Trash . That should fix it . If not , your problem may be on the mail server , or something more obscure locally .
You should take a look at <URL> . It can selectively toggle function keys between being regular function keys or the special hardware keys , including the media keys ( F7 , F8 , and F9 ) . Essentially , it does the same thing as " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " setting ( System Preferences > Keyboard ) , except only to individual function keys instead of all of them .
Under > > > you 've got a list of all the keyboard layouts available . To remove the " Globe " key , you need to have only one keyboard enabled .
The new Web Inspector was made to be a bit closer to Xcode . There is no direct way to get the old one back , without reverting to other means . For example : running Lion in a VM ( to run an older Safari ) . Running a nightly build of WebKit - but this may only have the new inspector Using Chrome ( while still WebKit , it still uses something that seemed closer to me like the old inspector ) . So no , at this time , it does n't look like its possible to revert back to an ' older ' version of the inspector . The best bet would be to submit bugs at <URL> . If it is missing features that the old one had , possibly future revisions would bring some of this back .
Not ideal but : Go into Preferences : Signatures , create a new Signature , erase the name and e-mail address , and hit Enter once to create a blank line . Then check the " Place signature above quoted text " box . Note : once a signature has been saved with actual text , Mail wo n't let you blank it out , so make sure you do this with a new sig , rather than editing an old one .
You can use either thumb to hold down a ⌘ key and then use another finger to access the other key . You just have to get used to sliding either thumb a little to the left or to the right of the space bar . Yes , this is just a result of years of using a PC .
⌘ + ⌥ + ← / ↑ / → / ↓ will let you navigate split panes in the direction of the arrow , i.e. when using ⌘ + D to split panes vertically , ⌘ + ⌥ + ← and ⌘ + ⌥ + → will let you switch between the panes . Note : ⌥ is the [ alt ] key
Yes , There is an extension for this called <URL> . Here is a description of the software from it 's website : ZoomBySite is a Safari Extension that will automatically zoom each site to the zoom level of your last visit to the site . A site is defined by a unique domain name ( so www.apple.com is considered different from store.apple.com and each could have its own unique zoom level ) . It does this by intercepting the Zoom In and Zoom Out keyboard shortcuts [ ... ] . It zooms the page in or out by the desired amount ( see the Preferences section below ) and also stores the zoom level for the site . As each page loads , it checks to see if there is a stored zoom level and sets it again for the current viewing . If you change the zoom level of a site , any other tabs or windows that are open to that site will also change their zoom level .
<URL> can do this with a macro such as ...
Command ⌘ + Option + Esc opens the " Force Quit Application " dialog , which lets you select and kill running applications . If that does not work , Command ⌘ + Option + Shift + Esc held down for 5 seconds kills the foremost application .
There are some apps that may help you with dark night photos ( though I have no experience with these apps ) . Here you are : <URL> : This app captures 15x more light to capture the best photos in low light situations . It also provides the best tools to help take the perfect shot day or night . <URL> : A full featured camera app with digital flash , 5x digital zoom , geotagging , preview before saving , quick and burst modes , and plenty more tools for night photography . <URL> : Very suitable for night photography , you can take 30 clear photos in 2 seconds in the case of low light . The app only fires the shutter when it detects the iPhone is steady to ensure sharpness .
Unfortunately , the firmware signing window has since closed for iOS 8.4.1 ( as well as all earlier iOS builds for your device ) , so it should not be possible . Source : <URL>
<URL> I use and recommend DropDMG since it has many <URL> that make it useful for sharing software such as scripting the building of a DMG file directly from my CI server when I promote a build using the included <URL> . Above : Many options for <URL> , including <URL> and showing a <URL> when opening the DMG .
Not a real solution , but a little faster then pure down . You can jump over the different sections with command-down .
In the Privacy tab of Safari preferences , check the box to Prevent search engine from providing suggestions .
In terminal : or If you want add some sleep time before run program again use ' sleep ' command : For example : in this example cycle will sleep 90 second before run again you program
end question
start question
Taking a Mac Mini and associated Peripherals As Carry-On Luggage Aboard An Aircraft ?
No reason at all . You do not have to take any of those items out of a bag going through x-ray like you do a laptop ( go figure ) and TSA is familiar with them . You might consider taking the Mac mini out or packing it in such a way that it will show up easily on x-ray . I 'd say you 're good to go . I travel often with an iPad , iPhone , MacBook Pro and all associated power supplies and chargers as well as a small external hard disk . I take the MacBook Pro out and put it in a bin but the rest of it stays in my pack . Occasionally a TSA agent will want to look in the pack but that 's rare and usually because the stuff was so densely packed they could n't visually sort it out on their monitor . While I do n't have personal experience with a Mac mini , my guess is you 'll be just fine . When in doubt , making it easier for TSA to see it by taking it out and putting it in a tray . If you have a small padded case it can travel in , you can leave it in that but take it out of your larger pack or suitcase so they can scan it separately but I 'm betting that wo n't be necessary . All of that said , every airport/TSA station is different and some are tougher than others . I travel out of Hartford , JFK and LAX and they can all be tough but I 've never had an issue .
Over wireless , I 'd assume less than 5gb per hour . More likely 2-3 , putting your backup in the 5-6 day range . Your best bet is to use an ethernet cable to connect to the Airport Extreme while the first backup runs . You should average 10 + gb per hour over a cable and I 'd hop
You might take a look at VirtualBox which includes a GNU GPL version as well . It offers limited/experimental capabilities to run virtualized OS X VMs , but I think Apple generally forbids virtualizing OS X via their licensing/usage terms .
I have an early 2011 MacBook Pro , formerly with 4GB of RAM . A few months ago , I bought an 8GB stick and made the exact setup you 're describing . With the exception of <URL> that lasted a few minutes one day ( and that I have no proof was even caused by the RAM setup ) , it 's been working perfectly ever since I did the upgrade . So yeah , you should be fine . Source : My own experience doing exactly the same thing .
The only way filesystem errors like those you describe could be copied onto a different disk ( e.g. your Time Machine volume ) is if the whole disk partition or whole drive were copied at the block level using or something like Carbon Copy Cloner . Time Machine does n't work that way , so its stored backups should be free from the filesystem errors and the files it restores should be free from them as well .
I suggest taking a backup and going to an Apple Store soon . I had two situations like this with funny creeking noises , the hard drive eventually slowed down and stopped working - no bad sectors or anything . It just eventually stopped . It was not an Apple drive , but I am sure it 's worth asking . Worst case scenario you will have to come back when drive eventually dies .
No , I do n't believe this can be done . This is how the service works - copies of everything in the drive is copied to all devices that have the drive enabled . You can choose to disable iCloud drive entirely , but you ca n't pick and choose what files arrive on which device . Other cloud storage service like Dropbox and Google Drive behave in this way as well .
From a few minutes of searching , it looks like Ubuntu 11.04 would be a good fit and match most of your requests , and what you were looking to use as well . 64bit would be needed to reach more than 4GB of RAM . And there is a 64 bit version , although ( to me ) confusingly named AMD64 . <URL> . There are also Magic Trackpad drivers available , and a good writeup available on the <URL> . I also found a good site <URL> . This should be rather similar to your instal . Finally , in most cases , choosing the right Linux distro is also a feel and how you like the install . But in accordance with your list of support , it looks like Ubuntu will cover this .
There are easily 10Gb of files hidden from the Finder . Get Info on a disk and Get Info on a folder work differently . On a disk , it simply asks the disk resource for a count of the used blocks and thus gets an answer almost immediately . This value accurately reflects how much is stored on the drive in question . Get Info on a folder digs through that folder and adds up the size of each file that you are able to read . You can not , for example , know how much another user has in their Mail folder by running Get Info on the User folder . Also , there is a difference between the file size and the space-on-disk size . Storing a single character in a file will consume 4kb of disk space , the rest is wasted . One million one-byte files will therefore use 4Gb of space on disk . Files hidden from the Finder include almost the entire Unix subsystem , many low-level config files , virtual memory , sleep images , and the system caches . Do n't even think about deleting them - your computer will not boot , and the caches will simply get refilled . On the plus side , the Mac OS takes care of itself quite well . You the user , have absolutely no need to concern yourself with the inner workings , nor do you need 3rd-party utilities to do any maintenance ( most of them do n't do anything effective except reduce your bank balance ) . A very easy way to reclaim a lot of space is get an external and move your iPhoto and iTunes libraries there .
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
Alot depends on what Mac Mini you have . Early Mac Minis only had a single DVI out , later versions had mini DVI out , still newer versions had a mini DVI and a mini DisplayPort out , and the newest all metal version has a mini DisplayPort and HDMI out and comes with an HDMI to DVI adapter . Negrino was correct in saying that you could get a USB to DVI adapter but you might only have to get one of them , depending on your Mac Mini 's video out ports . If you have an early G4 or Core Solo Mini , you would have to get 2 adapters . For a little clarification , are you planning on mirroring your desktop 3 times or having 1 desktop extended over 3 monitors ? If it is the first option then you could simply get a VGA or DVI Y adapter that would mirror the image coming out of one port to 2 or more monitors .
4GB of RAM is n't much to be running all of those heavyweight apps at the same time . My guess would be that it 's doing a lot of paging to disk . Check the size of the swap files on both machines . Go to the Finder 's " Go " menu and select " Go to Folder ... " . Enter into the box and press the " OK " button . Add up the sizes of the swap files . If it 's more than 1GB I usually reboot . That will clear out these files . I 've seen these files up to 4GB on a machine with 8GB of RAM . Since running out of RAM can cause writes to disk , the difference in disk speed may be what 's causing the delay .
Try an app called <URL> , it breaks down your storage usage folder by folder .
Are you positive you are in the Developer Tools group ? Try running this command That should add your user account to the group .
Do not delete the download or you will lose the rental . The only method for transferring rentals is between two devices is when you start by renting it from a computer . This is <URL> under the section worded <URL> . If you download a rented movie on your iPhone 4 or later , iPad , iPod touch ( 4th generation or later ) , or Apple TV : It is not transferable to any other device or computer . You can get help from Apple to accomplish this move if you are not certain if your software is the correct version or are having difficulties with your account . They might issue a one time refund , but this is n't intended to be something you can regularly do . If you have a TV and an Apple TV , your best alternative might be to AirPlay the movie , but on Lion , you will need third party software like <URL> to get video and music from your iOS device ( your phone in this case ) to play on the mac . Please research this option well ( especially the returns policy before buying ) , since it says it plays videos and it may not work with protected content like a movie rental .
The old ( pre-Lightling ) connection " unofficially " supported a USB keyboard by plugging it into the <URL> USB port . I not sure if this is still possible with the new Lightning port , although , some companies do make a <URL> . Connecting the Keyboard this way lets you use it in any app that supports Bluetooth keyboards ( which I think is pretty much any writing app ) . It does , however , show you a warning on screen when you connect the keyboard , but you can just dismiss it . If you 'd like to read more about what you could do with the Camera Connetion Kit USB port , check out the Using the CCK for more than just photography section of <URL> . On a side note , you can also use you keyboard to fully control your iOS device by turning on some accessibility settings . I do n't remember exactly what I used when I tried this , but it was either : or : So in short , yes , you will be able to use you computer to control an app through the thunder connection , but depending on what you 'd like to do , you may need to be a little clever about exactly how you implement this so you take advantage of some unofficial iOS features . And , if this does n't work for what you want , I know a lot of apps ( <URL> ) connect to the PC via WiFi . These apps send commands to the PC , but I 'm fairly sure you can make the connection go both ways as long as you do n't need to control anything outside your own app . Hope this helps !
It 's not possible to connect it to a Mac . The <URL> says that it 's only compatible with the iPad . Note that the full product name is " iPad Keyboard Dock " . Here are some ways you can use the iPad Keyboard Dock , though : Connect the dock to your computer with the USB cable included with your iPad to sync iPad and charge its battery . Connect the dock to an electrical outlet using the iPad 10W USB Power Adapter ( included with your iPad ) to charge the iPad battery . Use the dock to hold your iPad at the perfect angle to compose email and notes using the keyboard or to watch your favorite videos or photo slideshows . Connect the dock to a TV or video projector using a compatible cable such as the iPad Dock Connector to VGA Adapter or the Apple Component or Composite AV Cable . Connect the dock to a stereo or speakers using an AV cable or a stereo audio cable to play music from iPad .
You actually can not . Let me explain why : The bluetooth hardware of Macbook and iMac are designed to be " sender " rather than " receiver " ... The software/driver is designed without considering using the computers as bluetooth receivers . If you must connect two computers in an area where wifi channels are all taken , you can try using 5G wifi connection rather than the 2.4 G - and if that still does n't work , you are out of luck . Note : wireless audio receivers usually are designed with special hardware component to eliminate lags - and even so there are so significant lags on all devices . So do not expect your computers will sync - in fact , there should be half or one second lag even in an ideal condition . Hope this help !
Yes , a mac mini can have multiple monitors connected to it . There are now very good USB to Video solutions on the market that will correct this limitation . Steps : Choose a good Mac compatible USB to DVI or USB to VGA adapter . There are many available from different manufacturers . Look for adapters that contain the DisplayLink chip as these are Intel-Mac compatible . Make sure you 've downloaded the latest DisplayLink Mac Drivers , like these : <URL> Install the drivers through the guided setup by first selecting the image file ( . dmg ) and opening it , accept the license agreement , select which drive to install the driver on ( Macintosh HD ) , press the install button , and restart your computer . Plug your USB to Video adapter into your computer 's USB port and attach your monitor 's cable to the adapter . You can do this while your computer is on and it will recognize the device in the same way it recognizes most plug-n-play devices . Once your computer recognizes the adapter , it should automatically extend your desktop . If you prefer that it mirror the original monitor instead , or if you want to change any of the resolution settings , go to the Systems Preferences area and select " Displays " . When setting up multiple monitors choosing two of the same size is recommended . <URL>
There is no firewall on iOS and it does not block any ports that I am aware of . I 'd guess your issue has more to do with the fact that Bookman has n't been updated in over three years and some change in iOS 10 finally broke it . I 'm actually shocked it works at all . It sounds like you can use iTunes file sharing as an alternative , presuming that a recent iTunes update has n't caused that to stop working with this particular app .
end question
start question
Rescue Shortcuts for " Frozen " OS X ?
From the article at <URL> Press Command-Option-Esc to force quit , it brings up a dialog so you can choose which app to quit . Command-Option-Shift-Esc for three seconds will force quit the front-most application . Here is another helpful article : <URL>
The size of your package manager will be trivial ( 20 MB ) compared to the data it needs for your packages ( golang clocks in at 250 MB , node at 37 MB ) . I 'd say stick with Homebrew and work with it if you find some libraries are causing large space usages . My thoughts are what specifically are your HDD space concerns ? You could install brew and the files it needs on an external volume , but my guess is you have other files that could be co-located elsewhere - even on an SD card if you ca n't accommodate these files on the boot volume . Here are some target numbers for a clean install of OS X 10.11 with the store Xcode and homebrew installed . 5.4 GB for / System 5.1 GB for / private _ ( most of that is the RAM sleep image on a 16 GB Mac ) 2.4 GB for / Library 1.1 GB for / Applications ( and you could need an additional 5 GB for the full Xcode if you wish to carry that around - most of it is n't needed for command line and open source compilation ) 0.3 GB for / Users So between 14.5 GB of minimal filesystem usage to 20 GB if you carry all of Xcode simulators and SDK for iOS , tvOS , Mac OS that are easily thinned if you only want command line tools . Basically , even if you have a high cost/low storage capacity 64 GB SSD drive to boot your Mac , it 's likely not full of system or tools , but what you 've brought to run .
A few searches tell me that there is n't good SSD support for power pc macs . This seems to be mostly a SATA III compatibility issue . TRIM support seems to have been introduced in 10.6.8 but only for Apple-supplied drives . Since Apple was producing Intel-based systems by that point , that is where they focused the support . There are blog posts where people have talked about specific drives working in G5 and G4 macs but this is notably without TRIM . OWC has some posts about TRIM and how it is n't for everyone . The important question is , why do you need TRIM ?
Those key bindings are programmed into the standard text handing routines by Apple . Unless the programmer goes out of their way to write a text input library on their own , you get those key bindings for free . Same as the close/minimize buttons and much else that is similar between programs . Much of a program comes from Apple 's frameworks and SDK .
<URL> provides a compatibility list for multiple versions of OS X . You can search for an application by name or compatibility status , to quickly scan for apps that are known to be incompatible . <URL> <URL> Apps can be <URL> , and also includes iOS compatibility if applicable . You can also check for feature support , to see if apps contain the latest features available in the new OS , such as iCloud Keychain and App Nap .
From what I can test empirically here , the text replace function handles ' letters ' differently from ' other characters ' . For instance , I can replace ## with $ in the middle of a word , yet I can not make qq do the same thing , it demands either a space , or for me to click on the confirmation box that springs up . I 'd perhaps suggest as a workaround , use a less letter-like trigger . If it does n't spring a confirmation box , then it will replace mid-word . !! @@ # # $ $ etc all work just fine .
I 'd say go with Plex . I 've been using and testing different media center apps for years , and , like you , stuck with Front Row until Lion came out , because nothing else felt quite right . Since then , Plex has won me over , especially with the huge progress made in the last year or so . In terms of user experience , Plex is the closest thing to Snow Leopard 's Front Row . I always disliked the visual clutter of XBMC and Boxee , and even earlier Plex versions . But the current Plex version has a VERY clean interface and works great with the Apple Remote . It can handle almost any file format ( without installing extra codecs ) , unlike Front Row , and you can have it watch any folder on your machine ( or network ) , not just the ~ / Movies , ~ / Videos and iTunes . It automatically downloads artwork and metadata for movies and TV shows in your library based on their filenames , and there are many high-quality channels ( plugins for streaming content ) that you can install right inside the client . The channels have to present their data in the same layout as the native Plex library , so the interface is consistent . Plex integrates with iPhoto and iTunes as well , showing them as available channels . Finally , since Plex is really a two-part setup ( client and server , both of which can easily run on the same machine ) , it 's expandable . Once you set up the server , you can use it with the client on that machine , and you can also view your library on other Macs , PCs , iOS devices , Android devices , Google TV , Roku , LG Smart TVs , and DLNA TVs . I think they even released a WebOS client too . Most of the client apps work with absolutely zero configuration . As long as you 're on the same network , all available Plex servers and their libraries just show up . Start playing something , and the server will even transcode the video or audio ( in realtime ) if the client device does n't have the necessary codecs to handle it . Plex is n't perfect , but it 's under very active development , and constantly improving . And the UI finally looks and feels natural . Also , it 's everywhere . Practically every screen in my house has access to my Plex library . Some of the apps ( iOS , Android etc. ) cost money , which is good for the long-term survival of Plex as a platform , but the Linux ( server only ) , Mac ( client + server ) , Win ( client + server ) are all free .
While I 've had multiple good suggestions for programs here I wanted to post my own answer as no one answered with the program <URL> ( it was in a comment by @MaxRied however ) . X Lossless Decoder ( XLD ) is a tool for Mac OS X that is able to decode/convert/play various ' lossless ' audio files . The supported audio files can be split into some tracks with cue sheet when decoding . While confusing and over the top at first the learning curve did n't take too long to get over and in the end it is a very solid program that does everything I need and then some . One word of warning however , it will not re-convert files . So if you have a bunch of 320KBps MP3s and want to convert them to 128KBps MP3s it will refuse to do so . Other than that huge annoyance ( I switched to Max recommended by @TraneFrancks to finish off these files ) it works great .
Note the original question asked why Apple shipped an old version of bash and then asked how to upgrade . This is an answer to the original . If the question is just the latter then it is a duplicate You would have to ask Apple as to why . However I would note that bash is now licensed under GPLv3 and 3.2.57 is the last version released under GPL2 . As bash is in / bin you should not replace it directly as this can be updated or modified by Apple at any time and now with SIP it is also more difficult to change . Also scripts elsewhere might depend one this version You can however add bash from <URL> or from a package manager like Macports or Homebrew . You can then change the Terminal.app profile to start this shell rather than bash Macports is Homebrew is As of 14/6/16 - the stable version of bash is 4.3.42 and updates usually come rapidly through both port systems . Or you could change your shell to another that Apple supplies e.g. zsh which is more powerful than bash ( version up to date of release of El Capitan ) or ksh which is upto date . ( or tcsh which is a C shell but also reasonably up to date )
You may want to give Mac OS X 10.4.11 a try . Reference : <URL>
You may also want to look into the excellent <URL> . I have n't had a need for it in several years but back in the day it was really one of the best there is . Looks like it is still updated regularly .
I looked around for something like <URL> a while back but everything I found was pretty horrid . In the end I decided to just use and on the command line .
Apple Mail allows importing from . mbox files ( see the import option in the File menu ) . I do n't know how well it supports the other requirements you 've listed but it might be worth a try .
Open the Spotlight pane in System Preferences . Select the Privacy tab . Drag the Applications folder from the partitions that you do n't want indexed into the list area . Shortly thereafter the duplicate results should disappear from the list , leaving applications from the one Applications folder you want . You might need to force a refresh the LaunchServices database afterward too . Finally restart the Finder with the following command to rebuild any data cached within the Finder .
Yes - anything you do to reduce the number of writes to an SSD will prolong " the life of the drive " . Also yes - the memory ( RAM disk ) is an order of magnitude faster ( between 10 to 1000 times as fast based on what exact workload you want to measure ) than just the SSD . Whether you ever get to a point where your SSD fails due to write exhaustion or if something else breaks first ( or you sell the device ) is hard to estimate even for a statistical group of 1000 machines used in a proscribed manner . I would n't worry about trying to extend my SSD life and instead worry about making the Mac you have work well for the specific tasks you need . The OS already caches much of the filesystem to RAM , so you 'll need a very specific workload to do a better job at caching than the OS already does for free . Also , a repair part is not that expensive should you actually wear out that one part before you 're done with that computer . Yes , try not to have un-necessary writes and thrashing an SSD , but since Apple designs the SSD to be covered under AppleCare for three years - it 's not in their interest to have lots of SSD needing replacement due to them picking a part that wo n't last long enough in practice .
The closest analog I know of for general purpose document organizing in an " everything box " similar to iPhoto/iTunes would be Yojimbo . <URL> It lets you catalog and organize information in quite powerful ways . Also check out <URL> if you want files to be in the cloud and do n't already use a service for syncing . I 've heard <URL> is also worth investigating but never really known anyone that used it or tried it myself . Finder is capable of using tags and smart searches , but most people that are inclined to do that have already come up with a folder hierarchy that uses the filesystem for storage and spotlight for indexing files . It really depends on how much time you want to invest in cataloging and the volume and type of files you are organizing .
⌘ Cmd + ` works for me with the same versions of Chrome and OS X , so it might be something specific to your installation . You could try temporarily resetting Chrome 's preferences or disabling extensions . Or change the shortcut from System Preferences or test if it works on a different account .
<URL> can change key combinations like control + c to command + c everywhere : You can add your own settings in <URL> . See the source for the <URL> and <URL> . You can change text editing shortcuts by creating a DefaultKeyBinding.dict . See <URL> and <URL> . Related questions : <URL> <URL>
<URL> provides at least part of the functionality you are looking for . Timing is the best way to keep track of the time you spend with your Mac . Find out where your time goes - without ever having to start a timer again ! Timing automatically tracks which documents you are editing , which applications you use , and the domains of the websites you visit . Afterwards , just drag and drop activities into projects . There are some default categories , but you are free to customize them !
<URL> Shareware The ' Pro ' and ' DJ ' versions of this program integrate very tightly with iTunes and an iTunes managed library if you have one . It can play DRM-protected purchased songs and can synchronize playlists , playlist folders , metadata , sound check adjustments and album art with iTunes . It can also match songs with similiar BPM for smooth transitions and can easily handle thousand-song playlists . The program is definitely designed for a production environment , rather than a live one . It can not do automatic BPM calculation , but has a little feature where you can ' tap ' out the BPM to a song with your mouse/keyboard . And of course you can sort your library or playlist by BPM , or a number of other metrics . I 'm a huge fan of Megaseg , but it suffers from small little usability quirks ( the program 's insistence on sorting songs with each artist in alphabetical order for instance ) . <URL> FOSS This program is gaining a lot of popularity lately . It features some iTunes integration but is quite usable without iTunes and has several integrated organizational devices to make custom playlists or bundles of related songs . This program is more oriented for a live environment . It has the ability to connect to several USB MIDI controllers and turntables , has automatic BPM analysis , a more robust loop control , and the ability to handle multiple simultaneous sample playback . Mixxx has the ability to sort songs by BPM or other metrics of your choosing , though I have found it easier to use other programs to manage music libraries . Where AutoDJ and automatic crossfading are integral components of Megaseg , feel like more of an extra feature for Mixxx .
end question
start question
Is there anyway to turn off the dreaded slot machine date picker in iOS ?
Simple answer : Nope . Sorry to disappoint you . I also dislike this new picker . It is found all over the new UI and it is just terrible . Whoever decided this was good design missed the boat .
This is a <URL> . Cellular downloads are limited to a file size of 20 MB or smaller . See comment below , iOS 5.1 has increased this limit to 50 MB .
Thanks to <URL> for this : In terminal , you can turn wifi off and on with these commands en1 being wifi . Try to see whether that 's right for you or not . Here 's a one-liner to toggle between on and off Create a keyboard shortcut that runs a shell command Start Automator , and create a new Service . Set " Service receives selected : to " no input " in " any application " . Add an action named " Run Shell Script " . It 's in the Utilities section of the Actions Library . Insert the bash command you want into the text box and test run it using the Run button ( top right ) . It should do whatever the script does ( off , on or toggle ) , and there should be green ticks below the Action . Save it , giving it a service name you can remember . Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard , and go to the Shortcuts tab Go to the Services section , and scroll down to General - you should find your service there . If you select the line , you can click " add shortcut " and give it a keyboard shortcut .
If you go to Settings > General > Accessibility > AssistiveTouch and flip the switch to " on , " you will find a black square with a white dot in the middle . When you tap the white circle for AssistiveTouch , tap " Device , " then LONG PRESS on the " Lock Screen " option . You should be set !
I have n't tried this myself . But I know if you have a video open in QuickTime the Youtube option is available there . So basically you can 1 ) select " Reveal in Finder " from the File menu , 2 ) open the video in QuickTime and then 3 ) share to Youtube . Good luck .
Yes - you can find large files in many ways . In the finder search field type size : > 9000 and add a size field if you wish in the list view to sort descending . Add zeroes to the number to get less results back for your file sizes . This does n't work well for network backups in my experience due to lag or incomplete spotlight databases . If that does n't work , get a tool made to analyze Time Machine backups like BackupLoupe . It is crafted specifically to efficiently scan time machine backup drives and network volumes . It creates a comprehensive backup database of all the files and revisions that would make your size query a snap . <URL> Install the app Let it index one or more intervals Use the app 's find window to sort on size after setting the search criteria as follows : Type is directory and match type of none of the following is true <URL> It also helps to reveal the files in Finder so you could decide to remove that file across backups or just to delete that interval entirely . <URL> <URL> Since Time Machine stores each backup in folders , you could unleash any other tool ( DaisyDisk , Grand Perspective , WhatSize or other ) on the backup , but they do n't know how to interpret hard links and may take days or months to make a picture that does n't represent the actual storage allocations . BackupLoupe is smarter than the existing tools and does n't double count hard linked files . It also runs in the background if you wish . Lastly , it reads a database file summarizing the backups so the results are near instantaneous and you do n't even need the backup drive mounted to do the reporting .
As iMessage stands today , this can not be done . Just as you ca n't block a number or email from sending you an iMessage - there is no technical way to get others to not send you a group message ( other than by exerting social pressure to exclude you from further communications ) . I have n't been able to find anything playing on my phone , and several forum posts suggest that it ca n't be done : On <URL> , sla252 writes ( November , 2011 ) : Just got off the phone with Apple tech support . They admitted there is no way to remove yourself from an iMessage group chat . The tech guy says the best thing we can do is go to <URL> There 's also a <URL> in which huntard713 suggests ( October , 2011 ) : Settings-Messages . Turn group messaging off . It 's now November 2011 and I ca n't find this setting on my iPhone , and this was in response to a slightly different problem ( about who sees the other participants in a group iMessage , so I do n't know how effective this . I 'm sorry this does n't really answer your question ; for now at least , it looks like you ca n't leave a group iMessage .
It seems that simply unpairing it turns off Activation Lock . Before you send your Apple Watch in for service , sell it , or give it away , you should turn off Activation Lock on your Apple Watch . Just unpair your Apple Watch from your iPhone : Keep your Apple Watch and iPhone close together . Open the Watch app on your iPhone and tap the My Watch tab . Tap Apple Watch , then tap Unpair Apple Watch . Enter your Apple ID password . If you forgot your Apple ID password , you can reset it . Tap again to confirm . If you ca n't access your iPhone or Apple Watch , or if your Apple Watch is n't paired with your iPhone and you need to turn off Activation Lock : On a computer , go to iCloud.com . Sign in with your Apple ID , and open Settings . Under My Devices , click your Apple Watch . Click X next to your device . Click Remove to confirm . <URL>
As of Mac OS X 10.7 Lion , Terminal has exactly this feature . If you emit a bell ( BEL , Control-G ) in a background tab or window , the Terminal application Dock icon will show a badge with the number of " unread " bells and a bell icon is displayed in the tab of the terminal ( If there is only one tab in the window , choose View > Show Tab Bar to see the tab , which also displays other status information . ) This also applies to minimized windows . When you bring the window to the front or select the background tab , the bell indicator is removed from the tab and the badge count goes down .
Not sure if this is the best method , but there 's at least one way to set a keyword to trigger stuff in spotlight , and that is by making an application with Automator . Personally I use <URL> for this type of stuff , but it 's not overly difficult to do this with Automator . Open It should by default ask you what type of file to make , but if it does n't ⌘ + N Choose a type for your document : Application Start writing : shell Press ↵ Enter twice It should now look something like this <URL> Replace the text with : Save ( ⌘ + S ) Name it : Duplicate ( ⌘ + ⇧ + S ) Rename to : In the text , replace the with : Save ( ⌘ + S ) Now if you open spotlight and write , you should see something like this : <URL> If you want to change the icons , here 's an article explaining how in detail : <URL> Short version : Open the desired image in ( png works the best ) Select all ( ⌘ + A ) Copy ( ⌘ + C ) Select the in finder Go to file info : ( ⌘ + i ) Click the current icon on the top left Paste ( ⌘ + V ) After changing the icons , you might not see them change immediately . You can force spotlight to see the new icons faster by trashing the apps and then undoing it ( taking files off the trast ) . <URL> Links to the icons I used : <URL> <URL>
I 'm not sure how to completely disable the process but I 've set up Little Snitch to disallow incoming / outgoing processes associated with the Game Center . It 's a useful little program .
That is not possible using the default Mail app . It only allows you to differentiate between VIPs and regular senders ( by placing a ☆ next to VIPs ) . If you want to differentiate which account received an email within a notification , you would need to use a separate app for one of your accounts . You will then get separate notification settings for that app , and a different notification icon as well .
Now that the iOS 6 version has swipe-to-delete enabled , you must swipe the list 's title to move between lists . Swiping in the body wo n't work .
When you use a VPN to send all your traffic to another network , you are reducing the ability of the internet to route your packets directly from your phone to the servers and instead are forcing the network to put the packets the VPN embeds to travel first to another network and then to the destination . In the case where you need to hide / encrypt traffic , this downside is clearly worth bearing . For general purpose use , you will almost always add latency and perhaps bandwidth constraints that make the network response slower - even assuming all the encryption is done in hardware and has no effect on battery life on the device nor on performance due to delays in the encryption / decryption . Also , your network is far less resilient and you have introduced a single point of failure ( the VPN termination ) into your path to the internet . These downsides can be mitigated when you apply VPN to some traffic as opposed to all traffic and ensure your VPN is well connected to the internet . In some cases VPN speeds the network if the traffic you send elsewhere is throttled and the traffic to the VPN is not throttled , but this is an edge case and worth considering , but rarely a reason to use VPN exclusively .
Fraser Spiers recently did <URL> and <URL> on this question on his blog . In short , to paraphrase : you do n't " leave apps open " . By pressing the Home button , you signal them to enter the Background state , from where , depending on how they 're written , they are either immediately moved to the Suspended ( not-running ) state , or are Suspended after completing a certain amount of background processing ( such as completing a download ) . As Fraser explains , there is no need to manage the number of apps in the ' multitasking tray ' except in the case where a specific app stops working and needs to be forcibly restarted . Indeed , that tray is merely a " recently running " list ; there 's no way to know at a glance which of those apps have been Suspended and which have not .
Yes . Open the App Store and scroll to the bottom of the featured tab . Tap on your Apple ID and select " View Apple ID " . The tap Ratings and Reviews :
You can search your contacts by partial phone number using Spotlight .
I am fairly certain there is no way to disable this feature , short of jailbreaking your device . Even then , I am not aware of any tools to do so . Sorry this is n't the news you were hoping for !
No , it does n't seem to be possible . If you are in satellite mode , it switches back to " standard " when you start the navigation . It 's a shame , that would be pretty cool .
Go to and then turn and then the . That will reset the dock .
end question
start question
Is it possible to install Mac OS 9 on a VM ?
<URL> will be your best bet . There 's several tutorials laying around on getting OS 9 running in SheepShaver .
This answer has been moved to a more generic question : <URL>
As you said , the only option is to compile the source code . You can download from the <URL> . There is a <URL> . To install it , your have to uncompress the downloaded file . Once done , cd to sSMTP-master directory . The generic compilation process is executing the following commands one by one : The command can be altered with lots of parameters . To let you know your options , you can run
OK , this might be somewhat opinion-based , however ... Possible , yes . Worth it , no . Possible There are tools &amp; online guides far too long to repro or précis here on how to achieve it . It requires hacking the firmware &amp; needs re-hacking at each update - These guides from MacRumors are as good as they get , one for <URL> &amp; another for <URL> . Worth it ? The 1,1 &amp; 2,1 are really end-of-life &amp; now very slow compared to a ' modern ' machine . I really guess it depends on your budget , but you can get an absolute top-flight 5,1 [ or the smart money goes on a 4,1 with the Apple upgrade kit ] with two 6-core hyperthreading Xeons @ 3.46 GHz &amp; 64GB RAM for under # 1800 in the UK . Your existing drives will just carry over [ though idk about the OS itself , mine did from a 3,1 to 5,1 ] . The Geekbench scores on those are about 32k , that 's slightly under the current top model ' trash-can ' at 33k . I just checked the score for the 2.66 Mac Pro , 6k . I took the latter path , even though I was only moving up from a 3,1 - which is now in the hands of my partner &amp; very happily running El Capitan . I wanted a speed boost &amp; the upgraded 4,1 was right on the money for me .
Yes ! After you purchase and download Lion from the App Store , the " Install " screen will appear : Before you click Continue , open your Applications folder and look for the icon labelled Install Mac OS X Lion : If you missed this chance ( and the App is deleted from your system ) , you can always re-download the package using the App Store app . Even if it shows Lion Installed , you can hold the option key pressed , then press the button to re-download the Lion installer app . Right-click ( or Ctrl + Click ) on this and choose Show Package Contents . Navigate to Contents > SharedSupport and look for InstallESD.dmg . Use Disk Utility ( in the Utilities folder inside the Applications folder ) to burn InstallESD.dmg to a DVD . Drag the InstallESD.dmg file to the Disk Utility window , select it , then choose Burn ... from the Images menu . A dialog appears allowing you to burn it to a DVD . The name of the DVD does n't really matter , but I named mine Mac OS X Lion .
Unfortunately it does n't appear to be possible , or at least straightforward . As an alternative , you may want to consider creating an OS X Service that opens Google Translate in a browser window , for any highlighted word or phrase you have selected . If this sounds suitable , follow the procedure below : Creating a translation Service Open the app from your folder Select as the type of document and click In the window that appears , click the search field and type ' AppleScript ' Drag and drop the action from the list on the left into the area labelled ' Drag actions or files here to build your workflow ' Copy the script below and paste it into the action : Your window should look like the following : <URL> There are three values that you may want to change in the above script : - the language used for the page interface - the source language - the destination language Change one or more of these to achieve the desired translation . To find the correct language parameters , refer to the <URL> . In the example above refers to , and to Chinese ( Simplified ) . After making your changes , click > and in the panel that appears type a suitable name ( e.g. ) . Using the translation Service After saving your workflow above , you can make use of your translation service with one of the following two methods : 1 . The Service Menu method Highlight a word or phrase in any application Click the Application Menu to the right of the Apple icon ( ) , then click and ( or the name you gave your Service when saving it ) : <URL> 2 . The Contextual Menu method Highlight a word or phrase in any application Right-click the text and select then ( or your custom named Service ) : <URL> Whichever method you use , a browser window should appear with your translated text : <URL>
In general , it 's not possible to downgrade the modem firmware / baseband software version on iOS , <URL> or use software designed to install modified software on an iPhone . It 's a popular request , so I imagine many people are working on it but nothing is out today to perform the task you ask on the iPhone 4 .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
None that I know of ( as advertised by Apple , I mean ) . I found this on my bookmarks : <URL> , which might give you a better idea of what to do before and after installing applications . There are a few apps that take care of this too like : <URL> which tries to find the documents and settings the application uses ( though it 's debatable how efficient/reliable this apps or any app of this nature really are )
Yes , you can delete these <URL> files safely . These files provide human readable names for code within the framework or application . Removing the dSYM files will not affect the framework or associated application 's ability to run . Purpose of a dSYM Should the calling application or framework crash , the dSYM file is used to provide more readable insight into where the crash occurred in the code . Apple 's <URL> shows how dSYM files are used -- the same approach applies to iOS and Mac OS X. dSYM for Developers Ideally , the developer keeps a copy of the dSYM files and does not distribute these files with their application or frameworks . When crashes occur , the customer sees a technically obtuse crash report which they can report . The developer can then combine their local dSYM files with the crash report and produce a more readable crash report that should help track down the problem .
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
Firstly , you should be sure why you would like to do this and what a fresh environment would provide . This is going to be a bit tedious to do since you have multiple sources for the installs . For homebrew , follow the steps in <URL> . For MacPorts , follow the steps from the <URL> page . For PHP and Apache , it may not be simple to revert them to what the OS came with if you installed these outside of solutions like homebrew , MacPorts , MAMP or XAMPP . The non-tedious way , which may take longer to complete , is to Clone your drive ( using a tool like <URL> or <URL> or <URL> ) . Reinstall the OS afresh . Then use Migration Assistant to bring everything over from the clone . You would have to uncheck the " Other files and folders on ... " option in Migration Assistant to prevent it from bringing back the locations that homebrew , MacPorts , etc. , use . This method would also skip many files ( like in / Users/Shared ) that you would have to copy over manually from the backup .
It is not possible to install Siri . The iPhone 4S is the only iPhone that includes this system-wide functionality . You may have read about the Siri app , which is what the Siri team originally developed before their company was acquired by Apple . This app was available for older iPhohe models . However , when the iPhone 4S was released , the Siri app was discontinued . Hope this helps .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
No . To my knowledge , the native VPN client on Mac OS X does not have functionality for changing your password . There is some code in directory authentication that can do this , but in order to change a password used for VPN , you 'll likely have to log into a web-based password utility that 's bound to the directory the VPN is authenticating to . Additionally , those ehow instructions are quite vague . It looks a little like the system is authenticating to a VPN at login , much like how OS X can authenticate to a directory service at login . Perhaps it is possible to connect to a VPN prior to login on Windows ? On Mac , on the native client , this is not possible : VPN sessions happen AFTER a user has logged in . Now , if your VPN is authenticating to a Directory Service used for login , it may be possible to change this password inside loginwindow ( as changing your account password ) .
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
Yes its possible . The limitations that need to be over came are three fold . There are two things that prevent 10.8 from installing on a MacPro 1,1 . The first is the lack of EFI64 . Mountain Lion as has no support for 32bit kernel and extensions so it will not boot . This is true of many early Intel macs . The other thing is that checks are made by the installer ; against a supported machines list . If your mac is n't on the list , it refuses to install . It 's important to note that an upgraded graphics card is virtually essential . The stock 7300 GT is n't supported and will cause Kernel Pannic . I do n't think the X1900-xt is either , my 8800GT did odd things on DP1 but may be OK on newer builds . Ideally Id try and source a HD5770 or other newer card . Solutions : New compatible graphics card will need to be obtained . The first issue can be dealt with by using the Chameleon bootloader . Chameleon will emulate EFI64 and therefore load 10.8 . Customization of the 10.8 Installer by adding your machine kind back onto the list of supported machines . Sources : <URL> <URL>
It is possible to downgrade to iOS5 . You will just have to " trick " iTunes into thinking you are restoring from one of you backups . Just make sure to first make a backup of your current settings . Then it 's just a matter of restoring from the " fake " backup ( IPSW-file ) . You can download an IPSW ( backup file ) from <URL>
It is possible . You will first need <URL> and then <URL> . The User 's Guide for NTFS-3G can be found <URL> ( PDF ) .
end question
start question
Will a Microsoft Office Add-In developed in Visual Studio work for both a Windows and Mac ( osx ) versions of Ms Office ?
Office : Mac 2011 only supports add-ins that were developed in VBA . Office : Mac 2008 does not support add-ins at all . A <URL> , there have been no announcements as of this writing ( December 2014 ) whether Microsoft will support additional methods of developing add-ins in the new version of Office : Mac . For further information , check out <URL> from the Office : Mac 2011 help files . You might find more assistance in developing Office : Mac add-ins in the <URL> hosted by Microsoft .
No . Home Sharing uses mDNS ( Bonjour ) to advertise . Without a running iTunes instance for the share , it wo n't be available . Your NAS may have a DNLA server built-in which could make the iTunes library on it available though .
There are no special steps . Install it using the installer just like you did on your old Mac . When prompted for the activation key , select " activate by phone " and input nothing , keep trying and it should provide a number to call . Microsoft ( unlike Adobe ) does not have an automated system for licence deactivation . This has been a point of great angst among Mac users as it requires them to call Microsoft each and every time they move the Office application from one machine to another . I believe the number in the US is : +1 (800) 936-5700 . Your product support number may vary . <URL> on activation and product key information .
Turn off Autocorrect per Application You can do this in the Applications Edit Menu under Spelling and Grammar and disable ' Check Spelling While Typing ' .
<URL> Runs on virtually anything , and has awesome security . Not the prettiest , but the best features for the price .
In Finder , go to preferences , then click Sidebar . Under the Shared group , tick Connected Servers .
In the English version of Word and PowerPoint 2011 , Templates are stored inside your Home folder in . In other languages , the part is localized ( e.g. in German ) . The User 's Library folder is hidden in 10.7 and later , but you can go there by holding down option while clicking the Go menu in the Finder , then selecting Library .
Hold & #x 2318 ; and drag it out of the menu . If date and weekday are shown , they will also be removed . Alternatively , you can disable and customize the clock in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Date &amp; Time & #x 2192 ; Clock .
Check out <URL> : cocoaDialog is an OS X application that allows the use of common GUI controls such as file selectors , text input , progress bars , yes/no confirmations and more with a command-line application . It requires no knowledge of Cocoa , and is ideal for use in shell and Perl scripts ( or Ruby , or Python , or ... etc ) . It 's a pretty simple concept -- pass arguments to the executable to create a dialog , and it returns a result string . There are some good <URL> as well as <URL> .
Mac OS X recognizes TrueType and OpenType fonts ( . ttf and . otf ) but not the PC bitmap fonts ( . fon ) . So depending on the copyrights of the fonts you may transfer the . ttf and . otf font files . To install the fonts : Under Mac OS X 10.3 or above ( including the FontBook ) Double-click the font file > " Install font " button at the bottom of the preview . Under any version of Mac OS X : Put the files into / Library/Fonts ( for all users ) , or into / Users/Your _ username/Library/Fonts ( for you only ) .
Originally , I did not mean to have subtitles but change mistakes and correct them . My friend says the best tool here is Premier ( Adobe ) . He says that iMovie is difficult to use .
Apple documents the open source components for each release at the web page : <URL> Internally , they clearly do work before it 's publicly documented as we have 10.9.2 out today but only 10.9 is listed publicly with the versions .
The App Store does n't offer support for paid app updates . You can release new features as in-app purchases for the current app ( as @Jason said ) . If , however , you want to charge for a new version of the app itself , then you need to release the new version as its own app and remove the previous version from sale . A common convention is to name the new app " MyApp 2 " ( with the " 2 " as part of the name ) to distinguish it , since its actual version number will be 1 since it 's a new app . Yes , it 's a little confusing ... One issue to be aware of with this approach is that , because MyApp 1 and MyApp 2 are separate apps , users of MyApp 1 wo n't get any kind of notification that MyApp 2 is available , since it 's not an " update " of that app but rather a separate thing entirely .
According to <URL> the 85W power adapter is the right one . However , there seem to be issue with " T " style ( the old ) vs. " L " style ( the new ) : see <URL> . It seems that for some people , a workaround does the trick : Turn off your computer , flip over the laptop and remove the battery , hold down the circlular button on the battery for 10 seconds , the green light should go out . Re-install the battery and turn your computer on . Your new charger should work fine . If that does n't work , you need to call Apple support to arrange for your power adapter to be replaced with a " T " style adapter : Apple is aware of the issue with the pins being at a different depth in the new chargers with the " L " shaped connection . After having two new ones not work , I contacted tech support . They sent a new version of the old charger with the square mag safe connector . It works fine . Edit : Apparently the <URL> should fix the " L " style power adapter issue on older MacBooks .
The data returned from Backblaze ought to be correctly recognised by the Mac . Folders like iPhoto have a special structure that the Mac shows you as a single file , but in reality it is just a folder . In the same way , Applications are , in fact , folders too - but the Mac hides the structure from you by default . This is what your iPhoto Library looks like on Backblaze ... When you get your drive , you may have to point iPhoto &amp; similar apps [ Aperture , iMovie , Final Cut Pro all have similar structures for their Libraries ] to that ' folder ' initially , but it should then be treated as your regular Library . Edit : I just tested this empirically by downloading my entire iPhoto Library from Backblaze . When it arrived , it was in its original disk/folder hierarchy ; so had that been an emergency situation I could have copied the entire structure right back to where it came from . Initially , it looked like a regular folder , but [ a step you may not need to take if everything is restored to its original locations ] launching iPhoto with the Opt ⌥ key down to choose a new Library &amp; selecting that folder - as soon as it had finished loading to iPhoto , the ' proper ' iPhoto Library icon &amp; ' hidden ' structure was restored to it .
No . CDMA will only work of you buy and activate your 4S device onto a CDMA carrier . The <URL> shows that when you activate the phone it will choose one technology for coverage in country . GSM Registered phones will roam on GSM as will CDMA phones . Sprint should work in 35 unnamed countries and Verizon in 40 at launch .
Right click the song in iTunes and choose Get Info . Second from the right is the section " Lyrics " where you can paste the lyrics of the song . The lyrics will show up on top of the album art when the song is played on the iPod . Tap the album art to show it if you do n't have all the controls visible .
According to Apple 's <URL> : Page Up key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Up Arrow key . Page Down key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Down Arrow key .
Here 's how I eventually solved this problem . It took a few steps , and requires some scripting and command line hackery , but it did the trick . Export the pictures you want to update from Aperture to a folder , say Open the album in iPhoto Use this AppleScript to get a list of filenames for the master images Using any text editor , save the script below to and mark it executable ( on the command line ) To use the script , give it the location of the updated pictures , a folder to put backups ( I 'm paranoid of losing data ) and then pipe in the file generated before . For example : If you have n't already , close iPhoto . Then restart it while holding down Option and Command . That should give you a dialog to rebuild the iPhoto . You should only need to rebuild the thumbnails , though you may want to rebuild everything else . <URL> iPhoto will probably take a long time to rebuild the thumbnails , since it will redo all of them . You have a number of albums to do , it 's probably best to update the pictures first , album-by-album , and then rebuild the library . That 's what I did , and it worked pretty well .
The paid version of quick office ( quick office connect mobile suite I think it 's called ) allows you to add various online storage services : google docs , dropbox , box.net and mobile me . You upload/sync your files on your computer to one of these services then add your account to quick office and you will be able to access and write to the files on the service you added . Quickoffice also has local storage where you can download files to from one of the services . This is useful if you know you 'll want to access a big file when your not on wifi . You can download it while on wifi and then access it later offline . And vice versa you can create a document locally when and the upload it to a service later . Each iPhone app has it 's own sandbox which it can modify and read . It ca n't see or modify any other apps sandbox . So iPhone browser will only see files you added using iPhone browser . iOS 4 now has a documents facilty where if an app can read a word document such as quickoffice it registers that it cam do that and if an app can list files such as the official dropbox app you can open a document in the dropbox app and it will show a Hutton which you can press to open the document in quick office . Quickoffice also has the ability to openema attachments . However I have n't used this so I do n't know how it works .
end question
start question
How can I create a custom alert sound in Mountain Lion ?
You need add the sound file to , or . ( If you do n't know how to locate that easily , you can search for " sosumi " , and follow the breadcrumbs at the bottom of the finder window . ) The sound file needs to be converted to AIFF or WAV format . Macworld has a <URL> on how to do this using iTunes or garageband . Then , in , it will show up as an option for your system alerts .
In OS X 10.8 it 's called burn complete.aif ( or burn failed.aif -- they are the same sound ) and is found in . To get into , right-click the file and select Show Package Contents .
Internet Recovery If you <URL> , hold ⌘ cmd + ⌥ alt + R on boot to begin . An image of OS X will be downloaded from the internet , and can be installed on the internal SSD normally . Once this is complete , you can restore your data from your external drive .
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
Yes , the App store downloads an installer for Mountain Lion and stores it in the usual spot - / Applications . You should only need a network connection after installing to get updates , etc. . and not to run the installer outright . Be aware that the installation process deletes the installer once you are done installing the OS , so you might make a backup copy of the Install OS X Mountain Lion program before you run it .
Apparently both Keychain 's files are in the same place in Both OS versions <URL> <URL> . . Copying all the folder 's content from one to another should do the trick .
Oops , just tried it again . The problem was that I was dropping the files below the page rather than on the page thumbnail .
You can disable it through Terminal with the following command : It can be re-enabled with : With OS X 10.10 Yosemite or 10.11 El Capitan , you can go to System Preferences → Mission Control and switch Dashboard to off .
Though not directly answering your question this line will give you the time in seconds since the last user interaction which comes from what OS X considers to be an idle user . ( independently of screen-savers or black displays . )
Your best bet is reverse engineering the existing Transitions if you investment in time costs less than the $ 50 for Motion which is the official tool for making custom transition effects . Look in and the transition file is simply an xml file with the . motr file extension : Also , you could hire someone that has paid for Motion to make a trivial transition and test that it works for your needs . That would n't help if your true goal is to engineer how it works and understand the tool , though .
Quit Mail , edit the . mailsignature file with a text editor changing the HTML to whatever you like then right click the file in Finder and select " Get Info " then tick the " Locked " checkbox . This prevents Mail from resetting the file to the original version and it uses your version .
To change the default to local just write in a terminal : To change back to iCloud first , type :
Enter Mission Control Hover over the selected space or hold & #x 2325 ; remove by clicking on the x
You may need two approaches : one to switch the version for the applet plug-in alone another approach to switch the version for other parts of the JRE without switching the version for the applet plug-in . My <URL> : Java 8 for apps that do not use the plug-in Java 7 Update 9 for the applet plug-in . To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 quit web browsers and any other apps that use Java or the Java applet plug-in install JDK 8 set aside the plug-in install JRE 7 Update 9 or JDK 7 Update 09 . Setting aside : suggested move If you plan to switch frequently , you may prefer a different temporary location . Result At the same time : To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Answers under : <URL> To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 Install JDK 7 Update 09 then JDK 8 the OS and apps will default to use the greatest version . Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 7 Update 9 . To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 6 Update 37 . Example Generally For users of OS X , some of what 's provided by Oracle is initially misleading : <URL> ... and so on . Simplicity Whilst none of the above is as simple as switching with the Java Preferences app previously installed by Apple , the relatively simple approach of setting aside ( no need for special uninstallation ) is reminiscent of the wish for drag-and-drop installation ... <URL> in the <URL> area . Someone might like to build an app , but I should not recommend using symlinks -- it would work , but could be inconsistent with future drag-and-drop approaches to installation . Side notes At the time of writing , the most recent <URL> are ( for platforms other than OS X ) Java 6 Update 37 and ( for platforms including OS X ) Java 7 Update 9 . As greater releases will be made available , please reinterpret this answer accordingly . Java version terminology in this answer is in line with <URL> terminology .
No , but you can upgrade right from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.8 Mountain Lion when Mountain Lion ships next month ( for $ 20 USD ) , without having to spend the extra $ 30 USD to go from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.7 Lion .
Apparently Apple quietly added the ability to mark calendar events as private in iOS 8 . At the bottom of the event details there is the option to toggle an event as . Setting this toggle works with Exchange . See screenshots below : <URL> <URL>
I suspect it will be serial number based , or model number based . As the new models will no doubt all have serial numbers and indeed model identifiers ( iMac 9,1 for example ) that will allow them to clearly identify which machines are applicable , and allow the upgrade as appropriate . In previous " up-to-date " schemes it has been this way , and not reliant in any way on what is installed on your drive . If you are transferring to a different boot volume , I would recommend using an image file rather than Time Machine . You can pick up a USB enclosure for your SSD , image the existing drive onto it , and then simply swap them over - this is how I have done things in similar scenarios .
As far as the license says , no . You have the right to : So , as far as the license goes , you must already be running Mountain Lion in order to virtualize it .
As it turned out , I defined the Reminders list in the Automator service myself , so I could change it there . Stupid me !
You can not change depth and frequency of the recorded samples , even when changing the input settings in the ( this is the way to change playback and recording settings for sound devices ) . The default values for Garage Band are 44kHz , 16 bit , stereo . They are kept in AIFF format . You can explore them by right-clicking your garage band project and choosing . The recorded files are kept in the folder . Edit ( added Logic 9 ) : In Logic 9 you can change the sampling rate ( frequency ) from the window , tab . Explained in the <URL> . To change the bit depth you should go to - > and check/uncheck ( It 's checked by default ) . It 's covered in the <URL> .
end question
start question
Mac is freezing . How to find the problem ?
Try using Apple Diagnostics to check for hardware issues : Restart your computer , then hold down the D key while the Mac restarts . Check Apple knowledge base on this subject - <URL> If you get an error-code , check this page for how to follow it up : <URL>
This morning , I updated to iOS 8.3 and the Activity app now appears on the last page of the home screen . So I would try to either update to iOS 8.3 or restart the phone if you 're having this problem .
Keychain keeps its files inside of ~ / Library/Keychains . In there is a " login.keychain " file that you can add to your current list of keychains in Keychain Access .
Office 2011 requires activation and is tied to your hardware so it might very well be that you need to reactivate Office 2011 after the HD change . The whole activation procedure is described in <URL> . According to this document , the product key was mailed to you in a mail with subject " Microsoft Office for Mac -- Order Confirmation " .
<URL> allows adding a column for either short paths or absolute paths . See also <URL> .
See <URL> : Cellular and wireless UMTS/HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) 802.11 b/g Wi-Fi Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR wireless technology From <URL> : In North America , GSM operates on the primary mobile communication bands 850 MHz and 1,900 MHz . In Canada , GSM-1900 is the primary band used in urban areas with 850 as a backup , and GSM-850 being the primary rural band . In the United States , regulatory requirements determine which area can use which band .
You are out of luck . If you did n't turn on Find My Mac in your MacBook was never registered , and can not broadcast its location , or respond to location pings . If you have all the important information about the computer ( serial number &amp; whatnot ) you should report the theft to your local police station , constabulary , gendarmerie , etc. .
In most cases , you can determine it by looking at the Story Board ( , often is ) . Here we see the possible templates . Then , how the typical story board layout looks for the ... Master-Detail Application Page-Based Application Single View Application Tabbed Application Game ( which also features SpriteKit framework )
The easiest way to format any disk is to use Disk Utility ( in ) . Just start the application , select the drive to be formatted in the left column , make double sure you 've selected the right one and select the file system type , partition sizes etc. on the right hand side .
No , this is not possible . You are not able to see the last location of a device , only the current location , and since you 've removed the device you ca n't obtain any location information .
How to get serial numbers for displays : Go to . Open this with TextWrangler or a similar utility . Look for a key with an integer value that is n't 0 . With any luck , this should be the s/n of your display . If you have n't used this display for a while , the records of it may be gone . Also , it appears that this is n't guaranteed . Double-check if possible . How to get the serial numbers for iPods : Open . Look under the Devices dictionary . Any iPod you 've connected will have all its info there , including the s/n ( under ) . Good luck .
The easiest method to show which folder an email is currently located is to right click on the header bar in Outlook and add the " folder " ( visible columns have a check mark to the left of it ) column to the current view . This will show you which folder said email is contained in when you perform a search . If you no longer wish to have the " folder " seen in the current view just reverse the process to hide it again . If this is your only customization to the current view you can alternately choose to " reset to defaults " by right clicking on the header bar and choosing the reset to defaults action .
There have been lots of discussion over the past few days on this , but these two threads seem to have the best details : <URL> <URL> The solution boils down to two main causes : BT routers are known to have some kind of limit or cap on them . You 'll need to find another source . Some ISPs seem to not like the kind of traffic that is going through directly to the appstore . The solution is to pause your download , sign into a VPN or download <URL> , and start up the download process again . Once you 've completed the download , you can disconnect/uninstall the VPN access . For the record , option 2 was what I needed .
No , the compiled code must be submitted via a Mac . One " workaround " is to install OS X into a virtual machine on Windows , but that violates the OS X user agreement . So yes , you 'll need a Mac .
Apple 's website has a page dedicated to <URL> for systems earlier than 8.1 . ( They also still have <URL> , but the Downloads link on this page just links to the current OS X downloads page . )
Open Terminal.app Type in ( or better copy-paste ;) : Execute This will display every file deletion on your system . If you want to only display the deletion of " ~ / . Trash " , add to the last command .
No , this option does n't exist . ( Perhaps because it would be to some extent a security risk . ) You might remain signed in for a short period of time , but you ca n't automatically log yourself in .
Open a finder window and set the view to list view . Press command-J and select " calculate all sizes " then click " use as standard " . Now folder sizes will show in your finder . I do n't think it is possible to show sizes for multiple folders , but this might be a good workaround .
On my iPhone , I can find my MAC address by going into Settings , then General , then About . The wifi MAC address is listed under " Wi-Fi Address " . It 's likely that the MAC address for the iPad is in the same location .
Seems I had damp fingers when using the trackpad . Caused the sporadic issues for about 3 days . Then it all went away .
end question
start question
Monitor hard drive usage history ?
How about something simple in your crontab ? Which will , on a daily basis , append to the file drive_usage . log in your home directory with the date and time the job ran . Change @daily to @hourly or @weekly if you want different sampling rates . Sample output : If you want more information you might want to use something like fs_usage ( 1 ) which provides a truly astonishing amount of detail and must be run as root .
Having a second hard drive will certainly decrease battery life by a noticeable amount . Behind the CPU and LCD , the hard drive is the largest drain on battery . A word of caution : RAID 0 is almost never a good idea , unless you 'll be doing backups constantly and do n't mind being totally down if a drive fails . You 'll get better performance from an SSD and you 'll be able to keep your optical drive .
You could use <URL> to try to clone the raw volume ( there are some notes on running it under OS X on <URL> ) . It basically tries to read over &amp; over , getting as much as possible from the disk . This is n't ideal for your situation , since it 1 ) needs enough free disk space ( either a volume or a disk image ) to hold the entire drive , including free space ( i.e. if it was a 200GB drive with 10GB of files , you need 200GB to hold the clone ) ; and 2 ) it does n't tell you which files it could n't read ( you can look at the log and see what blocks it has n't been able to read , but figuring out what files those blocks are part of is not trivial ) . The good news about is that , thanks to its log file , if it missed something you need ( and you have n't modified the target volume at all -- mounting readonly is recommended ) , you can just run it again and it 'll pick up where it left off , and keep hammering on the difficult blocks until they give up their data .
Cydia 's <URL> does exactly what you 've requested . As far as I can tell , it exists since April 1st : New Tweak in Cydia , App Stat , shows you your app usage statistics , frequecy of use , use of time and recent use . Supports IPhone , IPod Touch , IPad running IOS 3.2 or later . Free on Cydia Search for it .
Look in / var/log for and . contains the most current logs ; the other files are archives of successively older log files , made whenever each one reached a maximum size .
Menu > About this Mac Then the Storage tab For cleanup , <URL> exists for Mac ; there 's also <URL> &amp; a whole raft of others . I would n't particularly recommend any of them , as they 've all been known to throw out the wrong bit , just like on Windows .
It is safe to operate the HDD this way . There are many servers that use HDDs vertically . Your main concern , while operating this way , would be the slightly worse cooling . The Twelvesouth guys are saying that they deliver better cooling , but they are comparing it to a closed and put on the table notebook . My experience shows that the best way to keep the notebook cool is to keep the lid open . If I want to use only my external monitor , I close it , wake it with the external keyboard/mouse and then reopen the lid ( only the external monitor works and the cooling is best ) . Note that if you 're not doing CPU/GPU heavy things ( gaming , transcoding movies ) , you 'll be ok .
Disk benchmarks perform many read/write operations to measure the performance of your disk . It is recommend to save any work as high amount of those operations may cause some applications to slow down and crash by being unable to load/save data from/to your disk . Can benchmark app damage your disk ? No , however if your HDD or SSD has been extensively used over its lifetime then it is likely that its health status has decreased , making it more likely to fail . Keep in mind that it would be nothing but a coincidence if it would fail during the benchmark .
The easiest way to format any disk is to use Disk Utility ( in ) . Just start the application , select the drive to be formatted in the left column , make double sure you 've selected the right one and select the file system type , partition sizes etc. on the right hand side .
You can use the drivers CD present in the MacBook box at the time of acquisition . Following the steps you can instal an old version and then update to the last one . Otherwise there should be the possibility of start a recovery and directly download ( using a WiFi connection ) the last versione of the OS . An other option is to use Time Machine , if and only if , you have previously made a backup of the entire system before the swap of HD .
There is a simple way to find out who is the owner of the computer as reported to Find my Mac . In terminal use If it is your name there then you are fine .
You can check it via Finder . Just select the Hard Drive and press . Or Click on the Apple icon on the menu bar Select , then click on . Select Storage
First , I put both the new and old drive into a PC of mine , and loaded up an Ubuntu LiveCD . At this point , my old drive is showing up as / dev/sde and new drive is / dev/sdf ( WARNING : be sure to update the below commands with your device assignments or you can easily ERASE all your data ) . does n't work on the drive because it is a GPT partition table ( ? ) , and so I use instead . I forgot to mention in my question , the drives are of different sizes ( 500gb was old , 128gb is new ) , so I could n't just clone the entire drive . Instead , I recreated the partitions with and copied the MBR over . I most likely went about creating the MBR ( master boot record ) on the new drive completely wrong , but this way worked for me : ( the reason was the first 39 sectors were not part of a partition ) Next , I opened with which there was a problem : the MBR I copied over brought the old drive 's partition table &amp; its sector information ( i.e. new drive thought it was 500gb ) . So I used the " repair " option in as it recommended , deleted partitions # 2 &amp; # 3 , and saved the table . At this point , if I went back into , the disk showed a MBR , and no longer had errors . Next , I created the other two partitions , being extra careful to setup the sector size exactly as the old disk had ( for the # 1 EFI partition and the # 3 Recovery HD partition that is ) . For # 2 , I just did the math , and created the disk accordingly ) . Finally , I used to copy partition # 1 ( " EFI System Partition " ) and # 3 ( " Recovery HD " ) over from the old drive : When I put the new drive in my MBP , I held Command + R to get into the Mac OS X Utilities , at which point I erased my main partition ( at first , the disk was n't listed when I went to install Lion -- probably since I just created the partition and did n't format it ) . I formatted it to the recommended file system ( Journaled -- I forget how they phrased it ) . OS X Lion is currently installing , and seems to be okay . I 'll post back if I get any oddness . Note : mentioned in its help section that it is probably best to use a Mac disk utility if the GPT drive is being use on a mac , so take my solution with a grain of salt . ( I think fdisk says the same warning about NTFS and FAT , but I 've never had a problem with using fdisk/linux to create/format/etc on that end ) .
Apple 's policy has traditionally been that you can install RAM , drives and PCIe cards ( on a Mac Pro ) , without voiding your warranty . However if there 's evidence that you broke something during the install , they wo n't cover that , nor the 3rd party parts ( naturally ) .
Most of the difference was marked probably memory marked as inactive . Any app can still use this memory , so it 's not marked as used by some process . For more info about inactive memory , see <URL> . Wired memory usually makes up a much smaller portion . This is memory used by the OS ; it is n't available to your apps . For more info , see the Apple article <URL> .
Yes . I swap out drives all the time ... it 's basically transparent on a Mac . I 've even booted my MacBook Pro 's drive on my wife 's MacBook Pro and vice versa . It takes a minute longer to boot as it reconfigures itself but once it starts you ca n't even tell the difference .
Have you considered cloning your current hard drive ? With a utility like Carbon Copy Cloner ( which you can use for free for 30 days , I think ) , and an external interface for your new hard drive ( USB , Firewire , etc. ) , you can clone -- i.e. make a bit-for-bit copy of your operating system and installed programs -- the drive that 's currently in your computer . Then , when you install the new hard drive , the computer should see it as the boot disk and everything should pick up exactly where you left off -- just with a lot more storage .
I have the same model of Macbook which was showing the same issues . After replacing the Harddrive with an SSD I still had the same issue . It ended up being the SATA cable connecting the hard drive to the logic board . Over some time the insulation had started to wear off and the cable was occasionally shorting against the base of the case causing IO errors . Once I replaced the cable these errors stopped happening . A good way of checking this would be to use an external USB to SATA cable and try and boot the laptop from it externally . If the drive functions well when doing this then it is likely the SATA cable that is at fault .
On the immediate downsides - You will need special tools and be handling some delicate parts . Also , there is <URL> causes the fans to run faster with non-apple drives . If you really want to get dust between the LCD and the front glass on a brand new mac and take the chance of ripping a tiny ribbon cable - just do some research at ifixit.com or talk with a local tech that works on new iMacs a lot . Do also research fan control and know if you are not planning on an Apple specification drive to install . My guess is Apple SSD are expensive because the parts are cherry picked to be the best of a lot ( more so than the SSD consumers buy ) and perhaps loaded with custom firmware and generally have temp sensors specific to the mac . I could be totally wrong , but even if you feel the drives are overpriced , Apple installing any SSD is better than a consumer due to the labor for for installing them is almost nil as they are installed at the most economical time - at assembly . If you ca n't afford it now - why not expand to an external SSD over firewire or ThunderBolt later . They are totally silent and small . It just seems the risks of DIY on a new mac make it better for most people to pay a trained tech to do the install .
If you are familiar with terminal you can use the following command ; username : your username directory : the folder in which the files you want to copy are located PS Requires an administrator 's password
end question
start question
How can I view iTunes metadata lyrics without using Get Info in iTunes ?
Have you tried <URL> ? It 's an app that displays the current iTunes song lyrics on the desktop . It does display a dock icon . You can also adjust font , size , position , color , shadow , etc. . There are no individual lyric files that are stored on your computer . The lyric information is embedded in the id3 tag of each song file . There is an app called <URL> that will batch extract song lyrics into individual text files .
Please try it with <URL> , see <URL> in the Videolan wiki .
I have no experience with this , but I found a <URL> .
<URL> ( $ 99 ) Lets you capture , copy , convert , share and burn discs or <URL> ( open source ) again does the same but a more basic version which is free .
Yes - stacking gift cards is not an issue . You will just carry a larger balance and less risk of losing the cash . You lose the flexibility to redeem them on another account .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
Is there a Downloads item in the Store area of the column on the left side of iTunes ? If so then you can click on it , click on the stalled download , and delete it . Edited to add There are a couple of places you might check after quitting iTunes . The first is Make sure it 's empty , and if not , remove what 's in there ( set it aside so you can put it back if it confuses iTunes later ) . The other place is : and look for the file ( or or whatever the game is called ) . Delete this file -- it 's the actual now-outdated game that iTunes is trying to update . Otherwise iTunes has the need to download it stored in its database and does n't care about files . I take it that agreeing to the download does n't help ?
As of iTunes 10 ( or possibly 9 ) , the main library window has the option to do exactly what you want . You need to have it in Album List mode ( View menu - > as Album list ; or the 2nd option in the view controller : Then select the " Album by ... " pulldown and select Album by Artist/Year : You should be all set and have a nice organized list of albums sorted by artist and year .
I personally have n't seen an easy setting which will let you choose a destination while the course is being downloaded . You still have two options : In iTunes go to Preferences and then select Advanced tab on top . There is an option to change the iTunes Media folder location . You can connect a USB drive and temporarily select that drive for downloads . I would recommend backing up your iTunes library before you try it out . Also , do n't forget to change it back . If you have enough space on your hard drive you can wait until the download completes and then copy the downloaded files to any location you want . iTunes downloads are stored in the following directory usually . ( unless one has selected some other location ) ~ / Music/iTunes/iTunes Media There are separate folders under this for downloaded Mobile Applications ( ) and iTunes U content also .
fn + return works while navigating with the up and down keys . Edit the song , then press return again to submit changes . For the other columns just press tab to reach the desired column .
To enable the Finder to show all files ( including " hidden " ones ) , you can type the following command in at the command prompt in Terminal : The first part sets a hidden preference so the finder shows all files ; the second part restarts the Finder so these preferences take effect ( killall on its own tells a program to quit ; the - HUP flag asks the program to restart ) . If you want to reverse this so that the Finder now hides the files it normally hides , type this in Terminal : If you are more comfortable using the GUI , there is a <URL> that lets you toggle this setting any many more , but it involves installing third-party software on your system . That said , your actual problem of disk space not being freed up when you " delete " files is actually by design . To permanently delete a file , you need to empty the Trash -- Mac OS X does n't delete files directly in the Finder ; it first moves them to a temporary storage on their original volume , and then when you Empty Trash ... in Finder , the files get deleted . Some users are reporting that is not working on their Mountain Lion systems but ( note the lower case ) is working . On my system running Mountain Lion , I am finding that the command works as written , but if it does n't for you , try lower-casing the F in Finder in defaults write statement .
Use a Smart Playlist . These are playlists that are dynamic and can be built off filters on track metadata . To create a new Smart Playlist select ( or Opt-Cmd-N ) and then set the following options to build a Smart Playlist that always contains all the tracks that are from 1969 in your library : If you wanted to limit it to a specific genre from 1696 press the + button to add another filter criteria and pick a genre like so : You can filter in all kinds of ways -- Smart Playlists are incredibly powerful .
Right click the song in iTunes and choose Get Info . Second from the right is the section " Lyrics " where you can paste the lyrics of the song . The lyrics will show up on top of the album art when the song is played on the iPod . Tap the album art to show it if you do n't have all the controls visible .
You can try the install with iPhone Configuration Utility : <URL> <URL>
In order to uninstall iTunes , you need to delete ( drag to the Trash ) a lot of items : The application 's icon . ( a lot of files ) and drag them to the Trash . Look in / Library / folder for an iTunes folder and if you find one drag it to the Trash . Look in / Home/Library / folder for an iTunes folder and drag it to the Trash . Last , in / Home/Library/Preferences / ByHost / folder look for two files with names com.apple.nnnnnnn.plist and drag them to the Trash . Open Activity Monitor ( Utilities folder ) and in the process list look for iTunesHelper . Select it , then click on Quit Process icon . Quit or Force Quit the process . Now open the Accounts preference pane , click on Login Items tab , look for the iTunesHelper entry and select it , then click the button and remove it from the list . Empty the Trash . This should fully remove iTunes and its associated files/folders . You can find all the information <URL> . But , there is no harm in deleting iTunes , except other iLife apps ( iMovie , iPhoto , ... ) wo n't be able to get music out of the iTunes library for compiling their things ( movies , slideshows , ... ) So I 'm seriously wondering why you want to delete iTunes at all . My advice is to leave it as it is and just ignore it . You wo n't do any harm by it if you just leave iTunes there .
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
<URL> ( $ 5 ) will let you load files directly to your iPhone over your LAN and play them from there . That should work fine if your audiobooks are a ) all one file ( if they are in multiple files there may not be ' playlist ' support , which would be annoying , and b ) not DRM 'd . If they are DRM 'd you 'll need to sync them via iTunes or , in the case of Audible.com , you can download them from the <URL> .
How to see iTunes U courses without iTunes iTunes U courses are RSS feeds , so you will need : An RSS reader , either web browser-based , like <URL> ( * ) or <URL> , or standalone , like <URL> . Make sure that in either case it can display H. 264/MPEG -4 videos . ( * ) Google Reader will not be available <URL> . The feed URL , which for the iOS programming course <URL> is : <URL> For example , after subscribing with Google Reader you 'll see a list with links to the course videos : How to obtain the feed URL Neither Standford University nor <URL> publish the feed URL , so you will need iTunes to get it : Open iTunes and look for " Stanford coding together " Select the course and subscribe : Navigate to iTunes U , right click the course and select Copy iTunes U URL :
It seems to be possible to <URL> , but through your iPhone or iPad it appears not to be possible . You can read more on <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> parental controls at the included links and in <URL> . I hope that this information helps , and let me know if you have any further questions .
I 'm pretty sure you 're ( sadly ) limited to the fields in the view options windows ( cmd + j ) .
end question
start question
How to manage my own reviews and ratings in Mac App Store ?
Open the Mac App Store . On the Featured tab , in the right sidebar , there is a link called Account . Under Settings > Reviews and Ratings , click Manage . You can edit / delete your reviews there .
Well , in my point of view , if the app works 75 % of the time playing AVI files , I would try to contact the developer directly , there might be something required ( like a plug-in ) or a bug that needs fixing . Like it says in the FAQ , if contacting the developer produces no result , then I guess you could ask for a refund . I have heard that they gave refunds to people who were unhappy before , but it was a last-resort solution if I remember correctly . Also , I presume the App store staff will fight for you more if you paid 100 $ for your app , and a little less if you only paid a buck ... :-)
I 've been using <URL> to get this very same information . The filtering and categories make it easy to setup saved searches that cut the results down to just applications and application types you 're interested in monitoring . The UI is nicely aligned with the Mac App Store as well , which is what drew me to it in the first place .
After a bit of research ( in the stores themselves , using Google , and in the Apple Developer Program resources ) , I 'm rather sure no list of these is available from Apple themselves or from any third party . I found the best ways to find the apps tagged as " Essentials , " is to look in these places : Both the Mac App Store and the iTunes App Store have a link on their front page called " New to the ( Mac ) App Store ? " Most apps listed there , which are not games , have the " Essentials " badge . It 's not the way to find them all though , as e.g. the WolframAlpha app you mentioned is not listed on that page in the iTunes Store . There are also some apps which do n't have the badge , e.g. Shazam is tagged as " Editors ' Choice , " but not " Essentials " in the Mac App Store . The iTunes App Store also has a link " App Collections . " Although the page this link leads to is titled " Essentials App Collections , " quite a number of the apps listed in the collections do n't have the " Essentials " badge . On the other hand , you can find a lot of " Essentials " this way . My impression is the difference between the " Essentials " tag and e.g. " Editors ' Choice " is not very well defined , and just picked by a specific Apple store editor . And I noticed some of those apps may be only essential to a very specific crowd . E.g. the djay 2 app , also tagged " Essentials , " is most definitely the best and most popular DJ app for the iPad out there , but it 's only essential to a select group . In the end , although there is no definitive list , going though the various collections made by Apple editors , will lead you to a lot of " Essential " apps .
One iCloud account is the primary account and only that account can use Find My Phone and Backup services , so to have one account with multiple devices implies that that same account also gets the iCloud backups . However , iCloud does n't co-mingle a backup from one iPhone 5 and another iPhone 5 ( although you may want to choose different names for each to avoid confusion when restoring if you happen to have two of the same device ) . Unless you are OK switching up accounts manually to push a backup to an alternate account and then switch right back , there currently is n't a way to do this with stock / unjailbroken iOS .
Open the Mac App Store . On the Featured tab , in the right sidebar , there is a link called Account . Under Settings > Reviews and Ratings , click Manage . You can edit / delete your reviews there .
So I got the message " An error occurred " when it was nearly done . I gave up , shut my Mac down later that day , started it back up , tried the download again and it resumed from where it failed
Yes - all your apps will be removed from their respective App Stores if your developer program membership expires . If your Apple Developer Program membership expires , you will still have access to iTunes Connect . However , your apps will no longer be available for download on the App Store and you will not be able to submit new apps or updates . Source : <URL> Attempting to log in to iTunes Connect will show the following message , but all of the services are still accessible .
Yes , although there are <URL> that cover the same ground already on SE . You can DL app store apps ( including Lion ) on your girlfriend 's computer . Then she can log into her own apple account and buy other apps . The only thing you need to be aware of is that for updates , you can only update the apps you bought with that particular account . So if you want to update Lion ( not likely as it will come through software update ) or other apps , you will have to re-log into your account . I believe most apps have a 5 computer limit .
According to <URL> , " The iTunes Store and Mac App Store uses Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) encryption on all functions that require personal information . " So passwords are sent encrypted , not in cleartext . If the NSA is packet sniffing at your local Starbucks , chances are they know how to get your password ( but if they 're looking for your App store password , you 've got bigger problems ) , but it should be reasonably safe .
I think you should check out instapaper which is free . It helps you do what you want to do without dealing with bookmarks . Here ' is the description from their web site : " Save long web pages to read later , when you have time , on your computer , iPhone , iPad , or Kindle . " I use it so I can save something on my phone and read it later from another device .
The default behavior is for iCloud Photo Library not to store full-size versions of your photos on your iPhone and iPad : The theory is that only thumbnails are stored on your iPhone/iPad until you decide to view/edit/share the photo , at which point a device-optimized or full-size version of your photo is downloaded from iCloud . ( Note : I know a full-size copy is downloaded when you edit/share , but it appears that if your iPhone has plenty of space it will download a full-size copy for viewing as well , as opposed to just a device-optimized version . This is likely to avoid having to do a second download later if you decide to share the photo . ) When you start running low on space , iOS will begin pruning less-accessed photos and return to simply thumbnails or device-optimized versions of those . All of this happens automatically in the background and you should n't have to worry about managing space yourself .
In addition to the other answers posted here , I suggest looking at a few different online bookmarking sites : <URL> <URL> ( and yes ) Delicious.com Most of these services have add-ons or extensions to access the bookmarks . :) ( I really like diigo.com )
Download " password pilot " in Cydia ( the jailbreak app store ) it will save your password so you wont have to keep entering it .
The App Store does n't offer support for paid app updates . You can release new features as in-app purchases for the current app ( as @Jason said ) . If , however , you want to charge for a new version of the app itself , then you need to release the new version as its own app and remove the previous version from sale . A common convention is to name the new app " MyApp 2 " ( with the " 2 " as part of the name ) to distinguish it , since its actual version number will be 1 since it 's a new app . Yes , it 's a little confusing ... One issue to be aware of with this approach is that , because MyApp 1 and MyApp 2 are separate apps , users of MyApp 1 wo n't get any kind of notification that MyApp 2 is available , since it 's not an " update " of that app but rather a separate thing entirely .
You might be interested in one of this choices : my favorite <URL> Features : Create an unlimited number of maps with unlimited landmarks Photos - Import photos from your Photo Album using their own locations . <URL> Then there is the iPhoto app for iPad :)
Read <URL> . It references a page of links to articles/examples on writing Mail.app plugins . You will also need to do some <URL> . Here is a year-and-a-half old <URL> . You might use it as a model . He built his with a third-party module but you might find a way to write your own , if necessary . The scripting of Mail.app might be stable . However , from what I have read - the rules for how to construct a Mail.app plugin may be in flux from one major version of Mac OS X to the next . That could be enough to discourage you from writing what you want for wide distribution but it might not be much of a handicap for personal use .
Yes . Xcode has built-in support for targeting specific devices with your app . It 's as simple as selecting the target device from a drop-down list . This could enable you to create an initial version that targets either iPhone or iPad , and then later switch to Universal and submit it as a new version . The App Store will then automatically recognize that the new version of the app is Universal , and you would need to add additional screenshots , etc. for the new devices .
It sounds as though your iPhone and/or iTunes are n't synced to each other . Unfortunately , for you to manage the apps on the iPhone from iTunes , the iPhone needs to be synced to iTunes . So you 'll have to go through this procedure at least once , and replace what 's on the iPhone w / what 's in iTunes . No way around that , but thankfully , any apps you 've purchased are free to you to download again , so if there are any that are missing in iTunes , just download them again . But yes , if any of the apps are n't in iTunes , and you 've got data stored in those apps , that data will be lost .
Typically , the method that you described will work . However , in some ( rare ) cases , the app will change the way it stores settings and other information , and that would cause the old version to misbehave until you delete the app 's settings ( usually found in the Library folder ) and start anew . But , as far as the App Store goes , your method is pretty much the only way to go , and the App Store should n't complain if you reinstall the old version .
end question
start question
Is " suspend-to-disk " memory dump encrypted when using FileVault2 ?
Everything written to the volume under Filevault 2 is encrypted live and in-stream by the kernel / device drivers . As long as there is n't a bug where data leaks to outside the core storage wrapper , you do n't need to worry about someone analyzing the contents of your RAM by snooping the locked drive .
I found someone 's <URL> to this exact request over <URL> . It 's a four year old post , but the method should still work .
It 's not been shown ( yet ) how to hack apart the Time Machine process on Lion sufficient to do what you ask ( skip the sparse storage format ) . I too was bitten by early network based sparse bundles . Since mid 10.6 ( maybe 10.6.5 ) - I 've been unable to break Time Capsule based despite repeated tests to be really mean . This includes pulling the power of the capsule in the middle of backups repeatedly to regain confidence . This is n't something I 'd do on my main backup , but the Snow Leopard implementation is now rock solid in my eyes . Realize that by having a less reliable network , this sparse format is actually more reliable overall and has checks and balances to make sure you get a good backup even when bad things happen .
I ran into the same problem after updating to 10.7.2 . SafariDAVClient also caused CPU-spikes all the time . Disabling Bookmark Sync in the iCloud preferences , coupled with a reboot " solved " it . It would n't hurt if you would file a bugreport with Apple as well . My ID is rdar : / / 10280447 , it 's still open .
Yes , <URL> : iCloud Security iCloud secures your content by encrypting it when sent over the Internet , storing it in an encrypted format , and using secure tokens for authentication . Encrypting content that is sent over the Internet The following content is encrypted using SSL ( Secure Sockets Layer ) when sent over the Internet to or from iCloud : Photos in your Photo Stream Documents in the Cloud Backup data for your iOS device ...
Yeah , sure . Use Wraparound ( I have n't tried it , but it should do what you 're asking ) . Download it here : <URL> .
According to the <URL> HFSExplorer can open and read encrypted dmg images . HFSExplorer is an application that can read Mac-formatted hard disks and disk images . It can read the file systems HFS ( Mac OS Standard ) , HFS + ( Mac OS Extended ) and HFSX ( Mac OS Extended with case sensitive file names ) . HFSExplorer allows you to browse your Mac volumes with a graphical file system browser , extract files ( copy to hard disk ) , view detailed information about the volume and create disk images from the volume . HFSExplorer can also read most . dmg / . sparsebundle disk images created on a Mac , including zlib / bzip2 compressed images and AES-128 / AES-256 encrypted images . It supports the partition schemes Master Boot Record , GUID Partition Table and Apple Partition Map natively . <URL> .
Everything written to the volume under Filevault 2 is encrypted live and in-stream by the kernel / device drivers . As long as there is n't a bug where data leaks to outside the core storage wrapper , you do n't need to worry about someone analyzing the contents of your RAM by snooping the locked drive .
In Finder navigate to / System/Library/LaunchDaemons / ftp.plist File > Get info Command + i Tick the " Locked " box The file should not change now when you reboot .
No - a simple and properly done RAM replacement does not affect warranty coverage . You can have Apple do the work , or an authorized service provider to do the work or hire someone . Just understand what is covered if something happens before you pay for service . When someone breaks a mac when it 's used in a way not intended , that can result in a denial of warranty service . Also - using aftermarket parts that then damage your mac can also land you in hot water . Luckily with RAM , as long as you do n't physically break the mounting brackets , usually the worst thing that happens is your mac is unreliable or panics until you get proper RAM . The user manual for each Apple product will clearly explain which parts are user replaceable and which are not . You can look up your manual online if you care , but no portable machine other than the MacBook Air has ram that is not user-replaceable .
I would guess that the weakest link is n't the choice of formats , but your picking a decent password and not letting it get observed or captured . In the general case where there is a system tool and a third party one , I usually start with the tool that is built in until I have good , definite and enumerable reasons to not use the default tool . Go with encrypted disk images in the case you have set out .
It is possible . You will first need <URL> and then <URL> . The User 's Guide for NTFS-3G can be found <URL> ( PDF ) .
I believe the iPhone 3G and the iPad 3G use very different baseband processors and putting the firmware from one on the other , if possible , would probably brick it . It 's akin to trying to put the BIOS for a Toshiba computer onto a Dell . Then again , I 'm not entirely sure on this one .
Enable Disk Access was a feature on the iPods , but has never been an option on the iPhone , iPod Touch , or iPad .
From what I can tell , wired memory belongs to the kernel , the innermost core of Mac OS X. It 's many layers removed from the icons in the menubar , which are just ordinary apps showing themselves in an odd way . Wired memory is used for some of the core functions of the operating system -- things like keeping track of all the applications on your system , or open files and network connections , or chunks of memory used by various drivers . The " page tables " that form a map of your system 's memory are also stored in wired memory , and a system with more memory needs larger page tables . I suspect that the memory used by the integrated video chips in most Macs is wired as well , but I ca n't find anything that says that outright . In any case , much of this information is needed to manage and access memory , and so it ca n't itself be swapped out to disk ! To understand why , imagine an enormous library . Think of , for example , the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford , which has eleven million printed items . There 's no way you could possibly fit all that stuff into a single building -- certainly not one in the middle of a university campus . So instead , imagine that the librarians construct a vast warehouse . ( The real Bodleian Library has about forty sub-libraries of various descriptions , plus storage for really rare books , but this is a thought experiment . ) Most of the books are kept in the warehouse , but anything that 's been used recently is kept in the library . If you show up at the library looking for a book , and it 's in the stacks there , you can read it immediately . If not , ask a librarian and the book you want will be transported from the warehouse and given to you the next day . The information in wired memory , then , would be things like the card catalog , keys to the book delivery trucks , and maps of the route to the warehouse . If you stored these things in the warehouse , you could never retrieve books to bring them back to the library -- so they must be kept in the library at all times , lest the whole system break down . Anyway , getting back to practical considerations : wired memory is basically used by your computer for internal bookkeeping of various sorts . You should n't worry about it . And do n't worry if you have lots of " inactive " memory and little " free " memory , either . Inactive memory is basically memory that Mac OS is keeping something in on the off chance it 's needed again ; if your system needs that memory for something else , it 'll be converted to free memory without any performance hit . To extend the library metaphor , imagine that the library keeps books that have been recently used in the stacks . The space is there in the stacks ; there 's no use leaving it empty , so you might as well keep the books you already have there . There 's no harm in it , and sometimes someone will be able to pick up a book immediately that he would otherwise have had to wait for . Similarly , inactive memory can only speed things up ; it ca n't hurt your computer , so do n't worry about it being too high . Really , you should n't worry about your memory use unless wired + active starts getting close to the 8 GB in your computer . That 's when you could get into trouble , because that 's when Mac OS will start consuming disk space to add " extra " memory , damaging performance considerably . Otherwise , you might as well have something in that memory . Ultimately , unused memory is just a waste of power -- if you have it , you might as well put it to use .
You 'll need to copy two files from the old installation of OSX : The first tells Dashboard which Widgets to show , the second contains your notes . Copy these to your new and you should be good . You 'll need to restart , logout and login , or kill the Dock , for example by opening Terminal and running . It worked for me - but I should warn that my home path was the same on the old install and new install .
The built-in AirPrint does n't allow this sort of functionality as of iOS 4 , but if you get the <URL> , you should be able to do B&amp;W printing and manage other settings . This of course only works if you have an AirPrint/ePrint HP printer , it wo n't work with any other printer that you 've hacked to set up with AirPrint .
<URL> could help you out here . It 's very configurable outbound firewall for Macs . The rule set it supports is comprehensive and you can block based on interface as well as IP ranges . You could set it up with everything blocked , tether , let through just the apps you want , and then enable/disable Little Snitch with this ruleset based on how you 're using your Mac at any particular point in time .
I had the same problem and found a great article that helped me decrypt the keychain from my iOS 9 backup : <URL> . Here are the steps for El Capitan : Install pip : Install m2crypto ( see answer to <URL> ) First , install openssl and swig with Homebrew : Then install m2crypto using pip : Install some more Python packages : Download the <URL> Extract your backup : And finally , decrypt your keychain :
If you have an external display attached with an external mouse/trackpad and keyboard , closing the lid will not put the machine in standby mode . You can keep using the computer with those devices . Check <URL> Apple link to read the official statement about it . Requirements for closed display mode : Power adapter External keyboard , mouse , or trackpad External display
end question
start question
How to use an existing Apple ID to download free apps from App Store without using Credit Card ?
Yes , you have to create a new account . You can do this from your computer or from your iDevice . You have to create it from the App Store , not the iTunes store . <URL>
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
Yes , you have to create a new account . You can do this from your computer or from your iDevice . You have to create it from the App Store , not the iTunes store . <URL>
No , the iTunes account are country bounded . So you ca n't buy a Spanish app with your US account . But if you 'll be in Spain for a few months , I assume you have a Spanish address ? So there is no harm in creating a new account for your few months in Spain . All you need is an address or a gift card from Spain .
Tap the item Select " Show more ... " Tap " List " Select the list where to move the item .
There are arguments and reasons to go either way . First the facts we know ( excluding jailbreak and cracking app store DRM ) : You can never change the Apple ID for each purchase once made . However , with MDM solutions evolving and VPP , there is the ability to purchase apps in bulk and then revoke the " purchase " by a subsequent AppleID and return a purchase to the pool for re-issue to another AppleID on later iOS versions . Perhaps that will come to the Mac at some future point . Apple has a <URL> to make the App Store work better for business use . The consumer level <URL> also exists to let one party pay and another redeem . You can change the payment option on your account with great ease . There is a 5 account limit on most devices . Updating apps is a chore each time you have to : get updates for account A go to store preferences enter account B and the password go back to the app store for updates update again - entering password B a second time go to store preferences enter account A and the password iTunes only backs up apps for which that computer is authorized . ( this can be a benefit or a hassle ) Now for some assumptions and commentary . Starting from the simplest scenario , you will either have to use a work credit card or work gift card on your personal Apple ID ( juggling the payment options and providing these receipts to account for these purchases just like you would a cup of coffee , a hotel room and other petty expenses that the business just writes off . ) Having a " work " id means in theory - the work could ask you for the password ( or force a reset of the password since they would likely maintain control of the email or request/force you to put their email as the contact when you leave the company ) . They could then issue that Apple ID to another person that would then have use of the apps you once purchased . In practice - how would you feel getting a " recycled " Apple ID as the new employee or the boss welcoming a new team member . Even $ 1000 a year in app purchases pales in comparison to the training costs to a business for losing an employee . Company " ownership " of these app purchases is not a big deal in practice . If you ask your employees to switch in the business account - what happens when someone fails to do that - you 'll end up with an expense report anyhow or you 'll have a grumpy employee . Banning personal Apple ID is a potential solution as well . That also is demeaning to someone that 's going to be taking their work on the go with them - especially if work did n't buy the hardware . There are times when I really want my work persona to be totally different than my personal . Having that work Apple ID separate from my home ID does n't seem to work at all to have that separation . I would not be able to remember to switch my account - I would go to purchase - see the password and enter it . About half way through the download I would realize my mistake . I can see this working for some , but think through this if you embark on a two ID strategy . I would draft an addendum to your normal expense reporting policy to call for quarterly reports ( if you do n't report these expenses as they happen ) , urge you to use existing work credit cards to buy gift cards or have one work account gift apps to users that do n't need many or are getting started . Once your company hits thousands of dollars of apps - you can look into the <URL> which still lets the business send redemption codes to individual Apple ID . Make it a point to educate everyone - an executive summary ( this is what we 're doing / how it will be controlled ) as well as a detailed guide - who does what and when . Once you think it through - the idea of work asking for a work Apple ID might make as little sense to you as it does to me . I would however , be sensitive to the finance department - the have long held practices on how to purchase software . Sitting down with them and showing them my purchase history and educating them how this all works . Handing them my phone and letting them buy an app - seeing it download and start using it is an eye opener .
Answering my own question . I enabled the debug menu and then selected Reset Application , restarted the App Store and now the Download button shows up again . To enable the debug menu , open Terminal and run
Mailboxes are stored in ~ / Library/Mail . You can move this to your SD card then symlink the new location back to the original location . Move ~ / Library/Mail to your SD card . Symlink the folder :
Go to App Store or iTunes Store and scroll to the bottom , then pick your Apple ID . Select View Apple ID and log in with your current password . Pick Apple ID at the top and change your password , then press Done .
There are a great many apps which offer very little in terms of functionality , and essentially advertise a company and accessories ( such as the Jabra and Plantronics apps ) and some which just display information about select services of the company . There are also many apps which require specific infrastructures to be in place for an organisation to even use the app which offer no functionality for the average user , such as Good for Enterprise , or Excitor DME . As long as it complies with the submission guidelines , there 's no reason Apple would reject it .
You do have to create a new shared album , but you can create the album from the contents of the existing album so you do n't need to find the images again manually . Open the album . Choose Select in the top right , then Select All in the top left . Tap Share in the bottom left , then create a new iCloud Photo Sharing album as usual . Once you 've created the shared album , you can delete the old album .
You can set your payment details to none when you set up your Apple ID . This way you can download free content without the use of a creditcard .
You can copy/paste the application from one Mac to another , they will run as they are self-contained ( no files required in other locations ) . You may not even need to login to the App Store to run them . I had to install Xcode and Final Cut Pro on a very restricted network environment where the App Store is blocked , the apps ran fine . Licensing is an issue if you use the apps in a non-personal environment ( businness , education ) . Download and install work the same way .
No , you ca n't use a gift card . You might want to try a prepaid credit card . You can get them at most places that sell gift cards .
According to <URL> , it uses the following order for song purchases : Song credits . Gift certificate , prepaid card , or allowance credits . Credit cards . Thus , it would appear that you can not charge a credit card without using up your credits or gift certificates first . However , similar to what @Nick said , you could just open up another account , add the credit card to it , and then gift the items you want to your original account . Update : Based on my own tests of self-gifting , these are my findings : Gifts will deduct money from the credit card on your account ; they will not use up song credits nor gift card credit . This means that you do not need to open another account , just add it as a credit card and gift it to yourself . You can not send a gift to the same email address as your iTunes account . This can easily be circumvented by sending it to one of your other email accounts . The easiest method of gifting to yourself is to select the print option . It will show you a code which you then use to redeem the song . It will allow you to redeem the code on the same account .
Icons are definitely not freely copy-able . Apps in the App Store still enjoy the copyright protections afforded under intellectual property laws in your region . If you 've found an app with icons that you 're smitten with try contacting the developer about it . Often developers will purchase icon sets from icon factories like iconarchive.com ( link omitted on purpose ) . These icon sets are licensed to you , for use in your applications , and come with the necessary license to allow you to redistribute and profit off any product that includes them . You can find free and paid-for icon sets out there . The developer might be forthcoming if they purchased their icons from a factory . If the developer has designed the icons on their own they may choose to license them to you or they may say no . In which case : respect their wishes or you may find yourself on the receiving end of a cease-and-desist letter that prevents you from selling or giving away your app to the masses .
You can use this code for the actual URL you provided in <URL> . Feel free to write this command as one line ; all line breaks were only added to increase legibility . You may copy or remove them , whatever you like . What this code does : Iterate over the 8 pages of your account gallery Extract the image names from the preview images Fetch all full-sized images using this list of names If you want to only download files which do n't exist , and do n't know the number of gallery pages up front , you can adjust the code to this : The first code now increments the page number until a redirect or error occurs . The server will redirect you to the last existing page if you try to visit a page after the existing ones . The part will execute only if the corresponding file does not exist yet .
It sounds as though your iPhone and/or iTunes are n't synced to each other . Unfortunately , for you to manage the apps on the iPhone from iTunes , the iPhone needs to be synced to iTunes . So you 'll have to go through this procedure at least once , and replace what 's on the iPhone w / what 's in iTunes . No way around that , but thankfully , any apps you 've purchased are free to you to download again , so if there are any that are missing in iTunes , just download them again . But yes , if any of the apps are n't in iTunes , and you 've got data stored in those apps , that data will be lost .
To expand on <URL> answer , we do this in South AFrica quite often . Register a US account using a valid US Address ( The US Yellow Pages Helps ) Do not register a credit card Download free apps , books , music etc. . Purchase US iTunes gift cards online and load onto account Buy software , books and music . Please note , South Africa has a severely restricted App Store , and we can not purchase games , music or books any other way , and due to legal issues with classification of items , will most likely never be able too
You 'll need to copy two files from the old installation of OSX : The first tells Dashboard which Widgets to show , the second contains your notes . Copy these to your new and you should be good . You 'll need to restart , logout and login , or kill the Dock , for example by opening Terminal and running . It worked for me - but I should warn that my home path was the same on the old install and new install .
end question
start question
iTunes 11 : Viewing albums by Date Added ?
Sure - just make an intelligent playlist with the following criteria : date added in the last week mediatype is music do n't forget the checkmark for refresh automatically at the end
I believe this is associated with automatic downloads and/or iTunes Match . See <URL> Once a device or computer is associated with your Apple ID , you can not associate that device or computer with another Apple ID for 90 days . This article makes it sound like you can only sign in with a different account every 90 days , but this does n't seem to be the case in my experience . I regularly sign into different accounts on our family 's iPad when downloading apps and this has never been a problem . I 've only gotten warnings regarding this 90-day lockout when enabling iTunes Match . The article also notes that : Note : Removing a device from your Apple ID does not override the 90 day timer . The timer must complete 90 days from the day the device was associated before it can be associated to another Apple ID . It looks like you 'll have to contact Apple if you want to have the device reset .
With iTunes 11.0.1 , Apple restored the Find Duplicates functionality in the new iTunes .
According to some <URL> I 've read on the net , it 's a design flaw by Apple - disabling crossfade will make the playcount start to work again .
To get the second window back , all you have to do is click the album artwork thumbnail in the Now Playing area , either in the full version : Or in the Mini Player Both will pop up the larger album art view you are looking for . In iTunes 11.0 , there currently is n't the sidebar album art view that used to be there .
Use <URL> it 'll sync pictures automatically between Mac and iPhone ( it does also work with iPad , Apple-tv 4 and iPod Touch 5/6 ) with iOS 8.1 or newer .
You can set the default boot disk in System Preferences > Startup Disk .
On my Mac ( running 10.7 Lion ) , there 's already a default shortcut for this , ⌥ ⌘ 1 ( optioncommand1 ) . You can access the Clean Up By menu under the Finder 's View menu , which will show the shortcuts assigned : Note that this option is only available on the Desktop or a Finder window in Icons mode ( not List , Column or Cover Flow modes ) . If you do n't have shortcuts assigned by default , <URL> .
Simple answer : No More exact answer : Maybe . You would need to have a inside knowledge of the internal processes of the iCloud . The iCloud is not just one server , but many of them with different parts ( Key Value Storage , Document storage , ... ) I do n't think it 's possible to replace them without extreme inside knowledge . For more info about what exactly the iCloud is ( much more than just a file server ) you could read this <URL> from John Siracusa Of course there are other services which provide the same tools for managing reminders , todos , ... But there is n't a direct replacement for the iCloud and I ca n't imagine that there will ever be one . That would fundamentally contradict with apples philosophy of a closed and controlled environment .
Any application can network directly or use the system settings . As @geekosaur states , Opera has its own setting , as does Firefox ( along with the option to use the system settings ) . Chrome and Safar use the system settings . It 's really up to the application developer how they implement their proxy controls ( if they even have proxying ! ) .
Apple has just issued an update to iDVD to make it more stable , and help with importing from iPhoto . With any luck , it will solve this . Get it through Software Update , or from <URL> .
First of all , to remove any confusion , iCloud 's , and are two different things , and will behave differently . iCloud Photo Sharing From the <URL> : How many photos and videos can be stored in a shared album ? A shared album can hold a maximum of 5000 photos and videos combined . When you reach your limit , you must delete some photos or videos before adding new ones . My Photo Stream Limits Uploads to My Photo Stream per month : 25,000 photos Also note that photos are automatically deleted from your photostream after 30 days .
It seems that the setting is only available on the 3G model . It does not exist on the latest version of iOS ( 4.2.1 ) on the Wi-Fi model .
The serial number will allow you to view the <URL> of the phone . Using this information , you can 1 ) find the original iOS the phone ran , and 2 ) find out the iOS ( s ) with which the device is <URL> However , you ca n't remotely find the current iOS version or specific update to that version based on the serial number alone .
You can do this with a Smart Playlist . Click File - > New Smart Playlist Configure the rule so it reads " Media Kind is Podcast " Make sure the " Limit to " box is unchecked , and that the " Live updating " box is Click OK Once this is done you will have a playlist with all your podcasts . To sort by date , right click the column bar at the top and check " Release Date " . Click on the Release Date column to sort your podcasts by date . The only downside to this view is that this view does not provide the blue dot that indicates whether or not a podcast has been listened to . You can , however , add the " Plays " column and use that instead , as podcasts that have not been listened to will have a play count of " 0 " . You can also have the smart playlist automatically remove played podcasts from the list by editing it and adding the rule " Plays is 0 " .
Apple 's <URL> ... enables you to create a recovery USB . While this recovery USB does not contain the installer image , it is able to install Mountain Lion ( see 3rd paragraph ) . You can download the official software from Apple <URL> . Note that you can create the recovery USB only if you have a partition on your Mac . You can verify this in the Terminal using : . The Recovery Disk Assistant requires just 1GB because is does not store an OS X installer image ( usually named ) . Instead it will download the latest version of Mountain Lion right before the installation - if the recovery USB has been created in Mountain Lion . You are still able to use the recovery USB without internet access if you just want to open Disk Utility from it for example .
Unfortunately <URL> Best bet is external software OR Final Cut Pro 7 has numerous plugins that reduce noise and grain , but they are all very expensive .
I ended up testing this myself . Syncing content works Restoring the device works I have n't exhaustively tested everything possible , but I did write up what I have tested in more detail on my blog . <URL>
Most solutions I found on the net were not working anymore but I found this Safari extension that worked just fine <URL>
The 1st sort column is sorted by when the file was added to the playlist . If you can drag them into the playlist in the order you want ... you are set
end question
start question
Mac does n't respond after sleep mode : how to Prevent this ?
Looks like I fixed it . The problem was , that I divided my disk onto three logical disks . And system was confused , which one to be used for booting . When I chose Startup Disk in System preferences ( even though there was only one option ) the laptop wakes up normally . ( I had no problems during three days )
Testing this just now on my personal rMBP , it does not go to sleep immediately . It appears to trigger the sleep at the normal " power adapter sleep " time.a
You might want to set yourself up a Standard User Account in System Preferences . Or maybe better is removing some of the multi-touch abilities in your System Preferences ( such as disabling Tap to Click , Look up , or any setting you do n't find particularly to your liking ) Setting up a Standard User ( System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > " + " ) allows you to add a new person to your computer who does n't have access to everything like a normal Administrator does . In computer terms the hierarchy is Guest , then Standard , then Administrator , then Root . The Root is the computer itself and can do anything and everything it wants . Admins have similar flexibility with files and folders that belong to them but anything out of their reach requires a password . Standard accounts and Guests can do much with an Admins name and password , Guest files are typically deleted after logging out so what they do is n't meant to last . Consider these tips with a grain of salt and let us know if you need further help .
Unfortunately no , but this is something I would also greatly appreciate .
Looks like I fixed it . The problem was , that I divided my disk onto three logical disks . And system was confused , which one to be used for booting . When I chose Startup Disk in System preferences ( even though there was only one option ) the laptop wakes up normally . ( I had no problems during three days )
I love the setting where you can only sync songs with the checkbox to one or more iOS devices . Simple deselect the songs by plalist , genre , or as you find them and even if they are in a playlist or genius mix that would normally install the song on your device during a sync , iTunes will suppress those songs that are not check marked .
It 's not a super common process name ( in my experience at least ) , so in case no one has a laser-guided answer , some ways to narrow it down : This will show details about where the binary is located on the filesystem , show you in real time the files that process is accessing , and lastly list all open files that the program has . Hopefully there are some bread crumbs you can follow and you do n't have to use or to trawl the filesystem to locate the executable file .
This <URL> . This is on a Early 2010 macbook pro , and OP on the linked thread tied the cause to the " require password after 5 minutes " setting in Security and Privacy . OP solved this issue by switching to " require password immediately " Have you done all updates up to 10.7.5 ?
You can create many calendars in iCal , and sync only the ones you choose to other devices . So create a calendar to contain these alarms .
Boot to Recovery HD or internet recovery since the Disk Management Framework is n't loaded in single user mode : If you run into more problems - and and their repair variants might help to get at the underlying error condition on your volume .
Looks like the computer is set to prefer or prioritise the xfiniti Wifi hotspot over you home wifi , you can set your home Wifi to be of priority to any other Wifi connection and this is how to do that , System Preferences/Network / then select Wifi and click on Advanced , you 'll see all preferred networks there . Click and drag your home Wifi to the top .
Using the included Script Editor.app with OS X , try experimenting with these snippets . Wait 30 Seconds The following snippet will make your script wait 30 seconds before showing a dialog : Sleep The following snippet will put your Mac <URL> : Wait and then Sleep Combining the two snippets above gives an AppleScript that will wait 30 seconds before putting your Mac to sleep : Displays and Desktops I am not sure how best to determine if a monitor is connected . You could certainly poll regularly ; calling and parsing the output would work . Polling is computationally expensive and best avoided . Alternatively , maybe an approach whereby an AppleScript could determine if the number of active desktops has changed ? When two monitors are connected to my Mac , the following snippet returns a two item list : Expanding on this , the following snippet provides more display information to work with :
I used to get this issue as well and what I did was to prevent iTunes from auto syncing when I connect a device , this option is found in the iTunes Preferences/Devices and tick the checkbox as shown in the screenshot It 's also worth going into the user preferences then login items and remove " iTunes helper " which should stop it from launching iTunes anytime you connect a device .
I know this is n't directly what you asked for , but if you are looking for a non-techie approach to sharing printers via Airprint , you could do far worse than to use <URL> . It 's not free , but it is n't expensive and it works very well indeed .
<URL> is not supported on Macbook Air that lack a true Thunderbolt port . The <URL> is purely a video out port , and can not be used for data transfer , despite the identical connector . The only supported option for transferring data between two Macbook Air , using a wired connection , using Migration Assistant , is through ethernet . Since both models of the Macbook Air do not have an ethernet port , you will need to purchase the <URL> for the older model Macbook Air which does not have a Thunderbolt port , and an <URL> for the newer model which supports Thunderbolt . If you do not want to purchase the adapters , you could migrate the data off the Air using file sharing or have the Mac opened by a service technician to remove the storage and assist with a converter or another Air to house the drive while it 's being accessed . By deleting all files that are non-essential you can speed up the time of transfer , but the USB to ethernet adapter is 100MB speed and likely the fastest you could transfer files . Wireless network would be slower in almost all cases than a direct connection and neither would be as fast as a target mode Firewire or Thunderbolt transfer sadly .
The first part of the sync error message means exactly what it says - your iPhone can only be associated with a single iTunes library . The second half is tricky for people that are analytical , but for most users it 's meant to make them want to back up their phone before they erase it . Regardless of how you choose to copy your content ( sync manually or automatic ) it maintains a connection to a single library to which is is allowed to copy music/films/apps etc to and from , and where backups/restores etc can be made . Unless you know exactly what was synced - you could be inadvertently erasing some content hence the scary general error message . If you introduce your iPhone to a new iTunes library , then it can remove any content that is associated with the previous one . Assuming you still have access to the old one you can copy the files from one computer to another to enable you to sync them back again after , or you can transfer the purchases to the new iTunes library assuming it has been authorised using the same Apple ID . This is an attempt to limit unauthorised copying of music and other content etc , otherwise you could happily take your phone or iPod around to all your friends laptops and merrily copy all their stuff onto your device , where you could then happily sync it back to your iTunes library at home . Other phone content , like emails , contacts , settings should remain unaffected , as these are not held within the iTunes library ( even if you have set iTunes to be the sync mechanism for putting them on your phone , they belong outside of the library . Rule of thumb : if the original iTunes copied the content on in the first place , it will be removed . It wo n't just wipe the whole phone , just what came from iTunes .
Booting to Recovery Mode you will find the users ' . plist files in Do n't forget to escape spaces in the name of your main OS X volume with a backslash . Booting to Single User Mode you have to mount your main volume first :
This function does n't exists in . It does n't exist within either . It might be really usefull to read log files with very long lines or output of commands as . The wrapping render them unreadable . I suggest you to fill a feedback about this function on : <URL> To make it a winning improvment proposal I suggest you to ask for an horizontal scrollbar so as to be able to display the text which is beyond the right border .
This issue has been going on for years , and there is no way to " fix " it on the Mac . What happens is the machine gets an address from DHCP , and then performs a reverse DNS lookup to see if there is a hostname associated with the IP in DNS . If you are on a Windows network , all of the Windows machines are automatically registered in DNS when they connect to the Domain . I went on and on with the techs at Apple about this ... There is little that you can do at the level of your Mac . It becomes an issue for your network administrator , and since there is nothing really wrong , he/she is likely to leave things as they are .
The size is normally the size of the full Application . What I do is I open the application info screen and look at the file size . Remember , App Store updates are full versions of the file being downloaded , and the existing one replaced . There is unfortunately now why to do this quickly , you have to check each application individually from the update screen by tapping on it 's icon . As pointed out by @cksum , when finding the App on the iPhone , scroll to the bottom and it will show the size .
end question
start question
Can I use my enterprise developer account to sign Passbooks that will be used externally ?
Yes - if the enterprise entity is the one distributing the pass to end users , then you should be fine using that certificate to sign Passbook items . Any Apple generated code signing certificate should be sufficient to fulfill the requirements . If you are concerned after reading this , a quick call to developer support might help alleviate any concerns you have . Apple documents this at <URL> and the version 1.1 of this document states : Use of Apple-issued Certificates All passes need to be signed with an Apple-issued certificate to be recognized by Passbook . Passes should only be signed by the entity that will be distributing the pass under its own name , trademark , or brand , and that entity 's information should match the information on the back of the pass .
The installation disk coming with a computer is for that computer model only , and I would not expect this to work . If your MacBook runs 10.5 you are eligible for the 10.6 upgrade for $ 29 . I can highly recommend it , if nothing else , for the fixes in Time Machine .
Yes , you do n't have to keep that folder according to <URL> / EDIT It 's the backup of old Xcode installation .
You can use <URL> . The way it works is that it ... ... pull ( s ) a virtual shade over your screen ... dimming the display to a more comfortable level . Shady will save your shade level and restore it next time you launch the app . As it 's just a virtual ( but effective ) dimming method , I doubt that this saves much energy , but I can not confirm this as LED displays should consume less power if displaying darker colors .
The rules for the Mac App store are converging towards that of the iOS App store . The iOS App store currently allows the use of almost any programming language ( even Basic or Assembly ) , as long as everything required for that language ( code , interpreter , runtime , libraries , etc. ) is bundled with the app . For instance , many iPhone games have a built-in Lua interpreter or a C# runtime . If a language used by an app requires any separately installed support other than that built into the Lion Mac OS distribution , the review guidelines say that app will be rejected . Cocoa and webkit ( for Javascript ) are currently built into the Mac OS X distribution . So , if you want to use Java , you might be able to get away with including your own complete JVM and all needed runtime support libraries for Java in the app bundle . BTW , XCode supports using C++ and Objective C++ code , as well as Objective C and its plain C subset . But you may have to use some Objective C APIs to make an application compliant with all the UI guidelines , even in a mostly C++ app .
1 ) As you clarified in the comments , you have used your GMail account for instant messaging using Adium . My guess would be that Adium took your OS X account picture ( or you assigned it manually ) and synchronized it with Google . It should be easy to verify this by changing your contact picture in Adium . I ca n`t test it right now , but will try later and also try to come up with a solution to turn of the synchronization . 2 ) <URL> But I do n't think that OS X has anything to do with it , since I believe that the updating of your GMail avatar was done by Adium .
Directly from the Apple <URL> : Automatic setup . Seamless switching . AirPods connect automatically with all your Apple devices . They 're simultaneously connected to your iPhone and Apple Watch , and sound switches instantly between the devices . Want to listen to your Mac or iPad ? Just choose AirPods on those devices .1 Requires iCloud account and macOS Sierra , iOS 10 , or watchOS 3 . AirPods have the same Bluetooth technology as your iPhone / Apple Watch . They connect automatically with your Mac as the iOS devices do . On your Mac you just change ' Speakers ' to AirPods . This is a big hunch : iPhone is paired with your Apple Watch / AirPods and communicates with your iCloud account to your Mac to ' trust ' these devices .
Each Mail account on your iOS 4 + device is able to sync notes . When you have it enabled for multiple mail accounts you 're able to have notes stored in different accounts . The Default Account setting will be for which account the notes are associated with unless you say so otherwise ( Identical to the Default mail account in terms of functionality ) . The screenshot below might help - namely showing the Notes app is like the Mail application - an All Notes ( Mail ) view and just viewing on the individual accounts . ( <URL> )
iOS 4.3 , available for free download on March 11 , 2011 , includes the Personal Hotspot feature introduced with the Verizon iPhone 4 . You can get Internet access via 3G on the iPhone , then use your iPad via a WiFi connection to the phone to share the phone 's Internet connection . It does n't use Bluetooth , but it effectively works as well ( better , in fact , since Personal Hotspot supports multiple connected devices and WiFi is faster than Bluetooth ) . Here is a <URL> that discusses how the Personal Hotspot feature works . It 's pitched to the feature on the Verizon iPhone , but it should apply to the GSM iPhone 4 's running iOS 4.3 as well .
You could create a smartlist that only includes songs with the status Matched , Uploaded and Purchased .
There is no serial number ( like a Windows 7/8/10 product key ) tied to the OS X installation . If you did n't configure iCloud/iTunes accounts while setting up the system it 's almost plain vanilla . But installing OS X in Internet Recovery Mode will install the system the Mac originally was shipped with . Moving the disk with this system to a newer Mac - which usually relies on a newer OS X version - will probably fail to boot . Usually newer Mac contain newer or additional hardware . The older system usually does n't ship with the newer or additional drivers needed . Example : The iMac Late 2011 ( Mac12 ,1 ) was shipped with OS X 10.7.2 . The iMac Late 2013 ( Mac14 ,2 ) was shipped with OS X 10.8.4 . Attaching the external disk to the iMac Late 2011 and using IRM 's Restore OS X will install 10.7.x on it . The same disk attached to the iMac Late 2013 will probably fail to boot because the system is too old .
Yes , the content on iCloud is separate from any particular device ( except Backup ) and can be accessed from a different device regardless of what happened to the original . You wo n't be able to access all your iCloud data without an iPhone or Mac though ( e.g. Safari History and other app data ) .
No . You need to be a registered developer agreeing to the license agreements AND your device needs to be registered as a development device . As always , there are ways around this , but that is illegal . Torrent sites sometimes offer the software and in the comments developers offer to register your device as a development device . But these developers are at risk to lose their own development access . Furthermore the first betas tend to be buggy . Unless you have an obsessive need for the latest stuff or are a developer you do n't actually want it on your phone .
It 's highly doubtful that it would work with a guest account , since everything is deleted upon logout . If you created a " friends " user account with no password and gave them " standard " user access , it might be possible ( though it certainly wo n't be pretty ) . First , because Valve apparently has no idea how easy it is to use to broadcast messages between user accounts , they 've set the Steam app up to prohibit multiple instances from running . In other words , for a guest to be able to launch Steam.app in the friends user account , it can not be running in any other user account . If it is , you 'd have to go into that user account first to quit it , then go back to the friends user account . ( It honestly takes about 10 lines of code to have Steam broadcast a message to all other user accounts that the Steam that you 're launching now is in control , and all other instances could quit themselves , but Valve is fairly challenged with such things ) . So , provided it is n't running in another user account , it would work . However , given the ridiculous amount of files and data Steam wants to be able to write to inside its own application bundle ( inside the Steam.app bundle ) , you might be better off creating a separate copy of the application altogether , specifically for that user . Reason being , the Steam application will take on the ownership of whoever first installed it , and when another user tries to use it , they wo n't have write permissions to the application bundle . You could also try modifying the bundle to give it less restrictive permissions . ( This whole thing could be handled by using a simple , privileged helper tool ) . So , provided you have a copy of Steam which the friends ' user account has write access to , then we move on to the real fun , which is the several GB worth of . gcf files that make up the content of the game . By default , the game files are stored in : / Users / < username > / Library/Application Support/Steam/SteamApps / Since one user does n't have access to another user 's files ( for obvious reasons ) , you would need to re-download all of the needed files , or copy them over from the other user account . You could also try re-locating the SteamApps folder to a common location that all users have access to , such as the / Applications / folder . ( I 've written an application that helps with creating the symbolic link after the relocation process : <URL> ) . You 'll then run into the same issues with permissions as with the app itself , so you 'd need to change them to make sure they 're writable to the users in question . For a guest account , it might work if you had everything in a central location , and then had a global login item or a launchd job in the / Library/LaunchAgents / folder that would perform a couple of operations in the guest user account upon login . It would need to copy the files inside the / Users / < username > / Library/Application Support/Steam / that are responsible for saving the Steam user account and password to the guest user 's Application Support folder , so that the user would be able to login automatically without having to enter your Steam ID and password each time . It would also need to make sure there was a " SteamApps " symbolic link inside the / Users / < guest > / Library/Application Support/Steam / to point to the location of the game content files . In short , what you would like to do , i.e. be able to play Steam games from another user account on the same Mac , is a perfectly reasonable desire . As far as I know , it 's something that is already possible in the Windows version of Steam , without having to jump through 100 hoops first . It 's also something that 's entirely possible for them to have done in the Mac OS X version by using a central data location along with a privileged helper tool ( I 've been using such an approach in my own application for the last 7 years and it works well ) . In its current implementation , however , it 's not possible to do this in the Mac version without some pretty ugly workarounds .
On iOS 7 and a newer version of Find My Phone/iCloud , the battery level is reported so you can know approximately how much longer the tracking might be active without a recharge . When this question was asked , the battery level was not shown so the answer then was no . Either way , once your iPhone runs out of power , it will shut itself off . There is residual power left in the phone to run the screen and respond to buttons for a while , but once that last remaining power drains , eventually the voltage in the battery is not sufficient to run even the button sensing part of the device . Plugging it into power will re-start your phone and once it establishes a network connection , find my phone will resume . In your case - if Find My Phone says your device is not found - you ca n't really tell if it was turned off by intention or automatically or has lost network connectivity ( by having a SIM removed or just being out of range ) .
No , if it was not originally purchased/downloaded from the Apple App Store , you will not find it in the Purchased section . Usually , enterprise apps are distributed from that company 's ' app store ' only . If they are deleted from your iOS device , you can revisit the company app store and re-download the app again . It 's up to that company if they want to have a Purchased tab or some other way of seeing previously downloaded apps .
As @Timothy pointed out in the comments , the App Store will work normally on a jailbroken device . As for your own apps , you can run them , but if you do n't have a paid developer account it is harder to get them on the device . If you have a paid account , you can use the normal methods to install and run them . A device which is not jailbroken will refuse to run any app which is not signed with an Apple-approved certificate . When you jailbreak , the code which performs the checks is modified . It will still only run signed apps , but those apps can be signed by any certificate . Therefore , you can create your own certificate to sign your apps with . However , the normal methods of installing an app will perform the check and refuse to install it . This means you need to find an alternate method of installation , most likely using SSH or USB to copy a package over and modifying permissions .
The Mac App Store does not currently have the concept of an " authorized " or " deauthorized " computer . If you download an app legitimately from the Mac App Store , it is DRM free ( at least with regard to execution ) , and completely functional on your computer . The immediate answer to your question is actually that you can not deauthorize your computer in the Mac App Store :) .
No you wo n't be charged anything extra . The dialog is only warning you about the high data usage .
This seems like it would be a good solution for you . No installation required , it should run on almost any desktop . <URL> This product also may meet your needs . <URL>
end question
start question
Stop asking for password so often ?
OS X Mountain Lion makes it impossible to do that , because of Security Reasons . You ca n't store your Mac App Store password or iTunes Store password in the keychain . For everything else , there 's <URL> .
The icon in the menu bar with binoculars inside of a screen is definitely the way to disconnect . Thanks to Chard Marmon for the answer in the comments of my question .
4.2.2 has , due to customer feedback , added a setting under You and Settings ( Gears icon ) to turn off the Week in Review and all notifications that fall outside the normal notifications . In detail , click the blue ' In ' icon in top left corner of screen , then the ' You ' pane , then the gear icon in the top right corner of screen , then set ' Notifications ' to ' off ' .
Recovery HD The simplest way may be to use the Recovery HD . Boot into the Recovery HD ( hold ⌥ alt/option at boot and select the Recovery HD ) . Once it has booted , click Utilities , then Terminal . Type then ↩ enter . Follow the instructions . Restarting Setup Assistant In addition to using the Recovery HD , you can also restart the Setup Assistant , create a new Administrator account , then use that account to reset the password to the original account . You can restart the Setup Assistant by performing the following : Boot into Single User Mode ( hold ⌘ cmd + S at boot ) . Mount the drive by typing then ↩ enter . Remove the Apple Setup Done file by typing then ↩ enter . Reboot by typing then ↩ enter . Continue setup , making sure not to transfer data . Setup a new administrator account . You can use this account to reset the password to the original account ( through System Preferences → Users &amp; Groups ) . The new account can then be deleted once the original account has been recovered .
FYI , iPhone 4 does have heat sensors and if it gets dangerously hot it will show a black screen with a yellow warning sign and shut down . It 's perfectly reasonable to be concerned and take the measures you have to increase heat dissipation , but batteries warming on charging is quite normal . I would n't worry unless the iPhone displays an overheating warning consistently .
Here is how I solved this : launch go to - > tab - > item check box ( which was unchecked for me ) choose in the resulting dialogue box I can only guess that checking and canceling the resulting dialogue shook some sense into some forgotten settings .
Well - at the most basic level iOS and Mac OS X are the same kernel and startup processes using launchd and standard unix-heritage programs . iOS has full sandboxing and arguably tighter access control infrastructure to build up - so in some ways , iOS does more to start up than Mac OS X does . Once you add on mac things , of course it is more extensible so many people have much bigger loads to lift on an OS X reboot than an iOS boot . I would argue that all the above arguments are moot and to a first approximation , you are seeing the CPU capability of the Mac hardware shining as well as the read speed of the mac storage as opposed to the iOS storage and the effects of more RAM being a better advantage and more than offsetting the larger library and binary size on Mac OS X.
A few months ago my organization made the decision to make docking stations a standard item to be ordered with all Macs . We 've evaluated the Belkin Thunderbolt dock , the Matrox DS1 , the Kwikdock , the LandingZone docks and had previously used Henge docks . The Henge docks proved to be a constant pain for both users and our support team . The connections in the bottom of the dock frequently came loose , meaning the end user would lose USB connectivity , network connectivity , etc even though from their perspective the Mac appeared to be docked correctly . The Kwikdock did n't have the build quality we desired . The Belkin Thunderbolt dock and Matrox DS1 dock are both very similar in that they 're a hub that you connect all of your connections to , then connect to your Mac via a thunderbolt cable . The downsides we found to these two were cost the necessity to order a thunderbolt cable in addition to the dock . Our end users are also much more accustomed to the traditional docks offered by Dell and other PC manufacturers , were you click it into place and go . This is the same reason we did n't pre-order a Zendock . We ended up going with the LandingZone . It offers the traditional docking style that our users are accustomed to , the build quality seems to be very good , it 's much cheaper than the alternatives and can be further reduced in cost by ordering in bulk . It DOES require a separate driver for network connectivity but it 's very lightweight and they seem to be committed to providing updates in a timely fashion . I 've deployed about 25 of the LandingZones so far and aside from two support calls where it had n't been locked completely in place I 've only heard good things from my end users . We have yet to receive our 13 " Retina MBP docks but we do have a tracking number so I 'm confident they 'll arrive soon . Hope that helps !
The old OS has to run until the new one is in place and ready for the device to restart . Right there , you have 2x the space of a generic OS image . Then , the OTA updates take more space than iTunes with a computer assisting since your iPhone must have space not only for the compressed image , but also to store uncompressed contents of that download . Lastly , some amount of temporary space is needed as it actually installs the updated firmware . This space is for upgrade scripts , patching settings , upgrading databases and getting all the old content ready for the new code . Here 's an accounting of the current fall 2013 upgrade with specifics . iOS 6 took up something like 600MB of space , but required something closer to 2.5 GB of free space for the OTA update download/installation process , so it should be no surprise that iOS 7 asks for 3 GB space . Here is a <URL>
It turns out the issue for me is that OSX has created 2 entries in the Calendar app for my Gmail account ( even though I only have the account entered once under the Internet Accounts system pref ) . The Calendar app wo n't let me delete the duplicate since it thinks the duplicate is managed under the Internet Accounts pref . Deleting and re-adding the gmail account in Internet Accounts did n't help either . After deleting the Internet Account , the duplicate still sticks around in the Calendar app is not deletable since the Calendar app ca n't delete it , and there is no corresponding Internet Account for that calendar . I got around the issue by un-checking the " Enable this account " checkbox for the duplicate in the Calendar app ( since it wo n't let me delete it ) . That at least makes it stop checking for calendar updates so I do n't get pestered for passwords .
No . A device technician is needed to unlock firmware . Start with online AppleCare and they can go over your options . Find My Mac just handles user account passwords .
I do n't know if there 's a difference in Canada , but here in the US if you select the Purchased tab in iTunes , it now appears to be split into 3 sections . Music , Movies and TV Shows . This more apparent on the iPhone . On the iPad in the upper left corner is a tab indicating " View : Music " . If you tap it you can change to Movies or TV Shows .
No . To my knowledge , the native VPN client on Mac OS X does not have functionality for changing your password . There is some code in directory authentication that can do this , but in order to change a password used for VPN , you 'll likely have to log into a web-based password utility that 's bound to the directory the VPN is authenticating to . Additionally , those ehow instructions are quite vague . It looks a little like the system is authenticating to a VPN at login , much like how OS X can authenticate to a directory service at login . Perhaps it is possible to connect to a VPN prior to login on Windows ? On Mac , on the native client , this is not possible : VPN sessions happen AFTER a user has logged in . Now , if your VPN is authenticating to a Directory Service used for login , it may be possible to change this password inside loginwindow ( as changing your account password ) .
It 's pretty common for a repair facility of any kind to ask for a username/password for the sake of verifying functionality . This is why it 's always a good idea to have a separate administrator account setup for these kind of tasks . Usually an " Administrator " account with a unique password works . I 've worked in the IT industry for almost 20 years , and I 've always appreciated when a user has a separate admin account . It makes working on the machine faster as there usually is n't as much stuff loading on start up . It also keeps me from seeing any of your information , which is great for legal reasons .
Save a plist like this as : Then load the plist with or by logging out and back in . is supposed to open an application hidden and without raising any windows . For some document-based applications like TextEdit , it opens a new visible window if the application is open but has no visible windows . and the option for were added in 10.8 . The option is only shown in the help message and not on the man page .
Go to App Store or iTunes Store and scroll to the bottom , then pick your Apple ID . Select View Apple ID and log in with your current password . Pick Apple ID at the top and change your password , then press Done .
As another answer pointed out , iOS 8 <URL> , much the same way FileVault encrypts a hard drive on a Mac . The more data you have , the longer it will take to de-crypt or re-encrypt all this stuff as you toggle it . The secondary reason for this is by design : Mac OS and iOS have <URL> , as most are aware ( side note : how cool is it iOS auto-fills ' underpinnings ' after I type ' UNIX ' ?! ) . UNIX systems implement a <URL> , which is designed to resist brute-force attacks because it takes so damn long . While the effectiveness of this technique has waned as processors become faster and more powerful , it 's still noticeable as the little spinny thing on your login screen just before you log in to your Mac , which would make sitting there and typing random passwords very annoying ( read up on pam_unix if this interests the developer side of your brain ) .
Usually this is a problem with spotlight . The simplest step is to shut down the mac , disconnect all external drives , and start up to make sure no extra volumes are mounted . The next step would be to <URL> index . Lastly , search in other user accounts to be sure another user did n't somehow install or copy that App into their home folder .
Set call forwarding to forward calls directly to your voice mail or your home number ( assuming you have an answering machine ) . As long as you do this before leaving the country it should not result in huge roaming bills . You will still get SMS though , and data roaming may cost a lot as well .
It appears that the login gets blocked after the wrong password is entered too often ( see <URL> ) . Maybe somebody else has a AppleID similar to yours ( or you fell victim to a DOS attack ) .
end question
start question
Is Apple changing OS X branding to macOS retroactively ?
Yes , there is proof of this change in several places . First and foremost , it should be made clear that this change is not being applied to old OS releases in the sense that if you boot into an OS prior to 10.12 Sierra , and go to Apple menu > About This Mac , you will not see it suddenly say " macOS " instead of " Mac OS X " or " OS X " . The change is in relation to documentation and references in updated software , such as the startup disk selection screen in Sierra . Here is a screenshot to illustrate : <URL> There are places on Apple 's own website where the change can be seen ( although , again , it is not nearly everywhere ) . <URL> about Xcode states : Xcode 8 requires a Mac running macOS El Capitan version 10.11.4 or later . In the <URL> of a video from a session at WWDC 2016 , there is this language : Launched last year with iOS 9 and macOS El Capitan , the new Transit feature ... Found on <URL> , in a footnote describing system requirements is this text : Some features require iOS 9 and macOS El Capitan . There are a couple of Apple support articles , listed below , which refer to a number of OS versions in a row behind macOS . <URL> : This plug-in is no longer enabled in macOS Sierra , El Capitan , Yosemite , and Mavericks . <URL> . ( This one is right there in the title . ) Other companies/projects are recognizing this , too , such as <URL> : Apple has decided to rename Mac OS X to " macOS " , and apparently is now retroactively referring to old releases that way too .
If I remember correctly , you should be able to install Ubuntu into Boot Camp , and then virtualize it using Parallels Desktop . Works great with Windows ; most likely with Ubuntu as well .
Yes , The USB recovery drive shipped first with a MacBook Air and Lion was also sold as a full retail OS on USB write only format instead of the retail DVD/CD that used to be available for purchase . Apple discontinued this practice a few years ago and has started distributing OS X via the <URL> . You can make a bootable version of the installer from the App Store version if you have a USB stick handy . There 's a free , AppleScript-based program called <URL> that will help you build a bootable USB stick for Mavericks . You 'll have to download the installer from the App Store first . Just cancel the installation after the download and Mavericks will remain in your Applications folder for DiskMaker X to find and use .
By default the directory should not be directly writable , by other then root , without being prompt for permission with other users in Finder and or using from the command line . IMO should be used over for most applications as that is the default location . Also I certainly do not want to bloat out my Home folder with applications . I like keeping User Data separate from the OS and Applications , it just makes logical sense for many reasons .
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
I 've just tried this , and the answer was unexpected ... When I created the image it was stored in the following folder :
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
This is a tough one to answer . I have seen discussions on <URL> about just this subject . And if you keep up with news online about such tings you will find that opinions vary from " Chicken Little " to , " nah , do n't worry about it on a Mac . " The truth likely lives somewhere between the two . Generally viruses of all types have a bit of a harder time on the Mac . I run without an installed virus scanner on all my Macs . But I have been working , professionally , supporting Macs since System 6 . So , with care , recent backups and an alert mind ( yeah right ... ) you are fairly safe without a virus scanner . That said I always recommend that you have a virus scanner installed and kept updated . Ransomware usually ( like many other forms of malware on the Mac ) requires that you enter a username and password to give the malware installer rights to do it 's dirty work . However there are vulnerabilities on Mac O/S that supposedly do n't require administrative authentication to root your computer . There is also malware that tries to masquerade as ransomware . A co-worker recently opened a link to a video that then infected Safari on his Mac with what looked like some malicious javascript . But starting Safari in Safe mode , resetting to defaults and then a thorough cache cleaning ( we used Onyx ) removed the so called ransomware from his Mac . he was annoyed with himself for falling for it saying , " I knew better and never should have opened that video . " Yeah that does not fully answer your questions ( parts of 1 and 3 ) but an online search for articles on ransomware on Macs and a search of MacInTouch , might help educate you further . Or maybe someone here has some more experience with it .
No , System 1.0 is not open source and not in the public domain . Apple provided it with the purchase of a Macintosh . The system software was not available for separate purchase . History With MacOS 1.0 you are probably referring to the first version of Apple 's operating system . In 1984 , with the release of the first Macintosh ( 128K ) , the system was actually not called MacOS but was just Mac System Software . Apple has called it MacOS since version 7.6 . You can read ( and learn ) a lot about it <URL> . Emulation About an emulator of the first Mac system . There is one you can use : <URL> It will require <URL> to run vMac and finally <URL> Unzip everything , start the mini vMac , it will load the ROM and you 'll get a blinking floppy with a question mark because it could n't find the system . To solve it just drag the system image over vMac and the system will start !
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
Simplified explanation : When an application is started , an entry is written to disk that says this app is currently active . When an application quits , that entry is removed . When the system starts and finds entries in this list , it 's an indicator that the system crashed or did not shut down properly and it can offer to relaunch those apps for you . It takes virtually no practical overhead at all to track this . Each application individually may also be tracking which documents you opened pretty much the same way and then reopen your documents when it is being launched . There 's no need to " constantly track the state of everything " , the system just needs to make a few notes here and there when key events happen ( such as an application launching or quitting ) .
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
Macs work just fine with non-Apple keyboards . Alt becomes option , and the Windows key becomes the command key . And if you want to rearrange them , you can easily do so in the System Preferences : However , I prefer to use Apple keyboards with my Mac as they have buttons on the top to control expose , volume , and pause/rewind/fastforward of media playback . Apple keyboards also have the command key better positioned for keyboard shortcuts than the Windows key is on regular keyboards .
Since this topic popped up again , several months later , I 'll add a quick and impolite answer : No , you can not install 10.7 on any Mac that does not have an Intel processor . All releases of OS X starting with 10.6 require Intel processors .
There is anti-virus software available for Mac OS X : <URL> <URL> ( Free ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> is free ) Is it worth it ? That 's largely up to you . Personally I 'd say unless required there 's no reason to so long as you practice " safe computing " ( eg . not opening files from just anywhere , being aware of what is installed on your computer , etc. ) . However there are some companies that require any computer ( regardless of OS ) to have up to date anti-virus software installed and operational . There are no viruses available for Mac OS X but there are several pieces of malware and trojan horses that a user must manually download and install . The anti-virus products ( and actually a feature in Mac OS X Snow Leopard ) will help fight against these threats but the primary defence is actually user education as the attack vector is primarily social engineering and not using any security hole .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
Submitting apps built with beta versions of an OS or beta versions of Xcode are not officially supported , but you can <URL> by changing the OS version prior to archiving the app inside Xcode .
The Mac mini ( mid 2010 ) is extremely finicky accepting RAM with a faster clock-speed ( some work , some do n't ) . You must use 1066 MHz or buy a pair that is known to be free of issue . For some reason that particular model was <URL> ( many posts on the internet regarding its inability to run under these conditions ) . For what it 's worth , the new Mac mini ( mid 2011 ) do not suffer from the same problem , accepting higher clocked RAM without complaint .
This <URL> shows how to do it using Terminal . The Terminal command that opens Chrome using the Safari user agent string : I tested this , and it works with the current version of Chrome . You can find various User-Agent strings <URL> .
Have you tried using <URL> ? Plug in your phone . Select it from Devices . Select the photos , hit the little " no " icon ( the circle with the line through it ) near the bottom of the window , and delete the photo . Also good to delete photos you do n't even want in photos .
end question
start question
How to move Lion installer to another Mac ?
Unfortunately the installer package contains the source files for the installation and this package is deleted once installation has completed . If you still have the installer in Applications , right-click on it and Show Package Contents then browse to the / Contents/SharedSupport / folder and look for the InstallESD.dmg disk image . This image can be burnt to a dvd saving future downloads but I am afraid you are going to have to download it again .
Tap the item Select " Show more ... " Tap " List " Select the list where to move the item .
This can not be done on the phone . You can sync your contacts to a Mac and do the changes from Address Book on the Mac . You can also do this via <URL> .
First , open the trash can by clicking on it in the Dock . In the Finder , press Command-shift-G ( go to folder ) and go to ~ / . Trash In the Finder window for . Trash , click the proxy icon in the title bar of the window and drag it to the sidebar . You then have a trash folder in your sidebar . To empty the trash from the sidebar , open Automator and create an application . As the sole action in the application , select " Run AppleScript " and use this AppleScript : Save the application as " Empty Trash " , and drag it to the sidebar .
Not sure it 's possible with the stock software . <URL> and <URL> let you define trackpad gestures to do pretty much anything , including mapping them to the key sequences for switching between spaces ( by default + arrow keys ) .
I 've managed to get pretty far on my own , so I 'm posting an answer . If someone else has a better way , I 'll be glad to accept their answer . I ran into some gotchas along the way , so I wanted to share those as well . Here are the steps I took . Make sure TextMate is not running on your new Mac . On your old Mac , tar up the TextMate and Avian folders under ~ / Library/Application Support : ( You may or may not have the Avian directory . If not , skip instructions related to that . ) Copy those two tar files to your new Mac and place them under ~ / Library/Application Support , and then extract them : Copy the TextMate . plist files from ~ / Library/Preferences on your old Mac over to the same locations on your new Mac . For me this was the following two files : ( Here is the ' gotcha ' which took me awhile to figure out . ) You need to unquarantine the files you just copied over to your new Mac . Do this ( on your new Mac ) by clearing the extended attribute as follows : The and options to say to handle all files in those directories ( recursive ) and delete the attribute specified . If you get a bunch of permission errors , place in front of the xattr commands . The above appears to have restored the majority of the TextMate " behaviors " from my old Mac to my new Mac . I still had to open up the TextMate - > Preferences menu and do a side-by-side comparison , checking and unchecking boxes for various settings that did not transfer over with the above steps . Update : If you have a . tm_properties file , e.g. , , you 'll also want to copy that over to your new Mac .
In system preferences security change the download from to anywhere .
Yes the installer is updated with 10.8.x releases as they come out . You will need to update the installer app through the App Store as you would for any other app . ( Source : <URL> ) . Like any other application purchased from the Mac App Store , these OS installers are updated in-place as part of the normal Mac App Store update process when new versions are released . It 's as if your Mac OS X 10.6.0 installation disc gradually morphed into a 10.6.1 installer , then a 10.6.2 installer , and so on . Example given is 10.6 , but the reviewer is talking about 10.8 .
Just move them is probably the best solution . The user caches and preference files stick with the user home folder , so other than convention - most cases it does n't really matter which volume contains an application . You 'll need or file permission tweaking to actually delete some of the apps , but I 've found no downsides to moving any apps to an external drive . Spotlight still indexes them , updates to the App Store work as long as the drive stays mounted when you want to see that an update is available . Tools like LaunchBar and others will probably need hand-holding to find your moved applications - especially if you do n't place them in / Applications on the destination volume . You will need to re-introduce the moved copies of the App to <URL> , but in some brief testing , the following apps worked flawlessly when moved to the root of an external drive . Mail iWork 09/Keynote Utilities/Terminal
This OSXDaily article <URL> describes a method of doing this . You may have noticed that when you log out or reboot Mac OS X Lion , you get a dialog window with a checkbox next to " Reopen windows when logging back in " that restores all of your currently open applications and windows . If you do n't like it and you 're tired of unchecking the box to no longer reopen the windows , you can use a third party script to render the feature useless . To clarify , what this does is disable the feature completely on a constant basis , regardless of whether that checkbox to preserve windows is checked or not , the windows will not restore . Type the following command to download the script , place it in the appropriate location , make it executable , run it , then remove it : The content of the script is for those who want to know what 's being executed and/or do it manually is : Finally , if you want to go back to normal resume behaviour type :
Once you have downloaded it from the App Store , but before you run it , you can copy the Install Mountain Lion app into the Applications folder of any Mac you have an Admin account on ( and have signed into the App store as you obviously ) and run it from there . If the Mac is not recent enough to install Mountain Lion the installer will tell you , otherwise it will happily install Mountain Lion for you . That 's how I updated all the Macs at my place . Note that once run the installer will delete itself from the Applications folder .
One person sharing two or more Macs , all running Lion Method A : physical share of a disk For your file to be versioned , save first to removable media with a file system that supports permanent version storage . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . Use the volume with other Macs running Lion . Examples : a USB flash drive using MS-DOS ( FAT ) lacks support a USB flash drive using JHFS + does support permanent version storage . Method B : electronic file share of a disk image In a directory that is shared using Apple Filing Protocol ( or any other appropriate <URL> ) , create a disk image , maybe a sparse bundle . Choose a format -- a file system -- that supports permanent version storage . Open the image . For your file to be versioned , save first to the volume that is imaged . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . At another Mac running Lion : connect to the file server open the image . Hints The <URL> preference pane can help you to enable advanced image options in Disk Utility . An image of a volume may be not reliably backed up whilst the volume is attached/mounted . For reliability , unmount/eject the volume before backing up . Multiple users Either method A or B will work , but both require negotiation between humans :-) Method C For each version that you wish to share , use the Duplicate command then save a separate file . The downside of this traditional approach is separation . Users of other Macs ( not necessarily running Lion ) might take a Cover Flow view of the files , but that 's not as neat as a versions browser view of a single file . AFP , Apple versions and security/privacy You might wonder why saving to an Apple-oriented file service , for example a service using <URL> , does not save Apple versions on the server . Think : privacy , security . Example Someone in Government saves a file that describes the true state of the economy , a state that is terrible . The person changes the file to present a different truth , a truth that will keep the lions at bay , saves his or her changes . When ready to share , the author puts the one file on an AFP server . Other users of the server open the file in any application that supports Apple versions . They see only one version , the most recent . We ( other users ) might wish to see all versions of a file -- including versions that were not intended for sharing -- but for Mac OS X 10.7 ( Build 11A511 ) the sanest default is : share nothing other than the most recent version .
Based on your updated question , the answer is no ; there 's not a standard , built-into iOS way to go to the end of a file . Individual apps are able to create custom gestures or menu commands to perform that function , so it might exist in specific apps but there 's no standard way that works with every app .
Drag protocol can be a bit confusing , however , it does follow a recognisable pattern ... To the same volume Drag will move - unless the file is in a protected location [ root level of the volume , or in a protected System folder ] , in which case it will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will override the simple drag behaviour for protected files &amp; move instead [ but will need Admin authentication ] . To a different volume Drag will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will move [ ie , copy , then delete the original . ] So , Opt ⌥ always copies , but Cmd ⌘ reverses the default behaviour of just dragging . Worst case scenario - you can change your modifier key &amp; check the added icon on the file you 're dragging to see your end result , right up until you let go of the mouse button . Just to complete the set - Cmd ⌘ Opt ⌥ dragging will make an Alias at the destination . edit ... &amp; after all that I realise that Preview will not adhere to that behaviour ... Move appears to not be an option at all . Best guess is that you can not move an open document &amp; even hope that an app could keep track of where it went . The Finder can . You can move the file in the Finder whilst open in Preview , but then Preview will tell you you are working on a copy &amp; you need to save a fresh version . Pretty safe &amp; sensible behaviour , really .
Unfortunately for you , the answer is : you ca n't . The way the Mac OS X Menu Bar is set up , Application Menus get added starting in the left hand corner ( after the Apple menu ) and going right ; System and 3rd party Menu Extras get added from the right hand corner and go left . There 's no way to absolutely position a menu on the menu bar ; you can only change the order of the items . As Tony mentioned in his answer , the user can reorder <URL> by dragging them while holding Command . Only the developer of an app can reorder the Application 's menus . But there 's no way to position anything in the center .
You can find many answers here : <URL> Specifically : Cut ( for cut copy paste , indeed for almost all windows shortcuts that use CTRL simply use Command instead ) : Command + X Move to Trash : Command + Delete Open Get Info Window : Command + I Open an aggregate Get Info Window for multiple files : Option + Command + I Show Inspector : Command + Option + I Get Summary Info : Command + Control + I Goto Previous Folder : Command + [ Goto Next Folder : Command + ] Quicklook ( Preview ) : Spacebar ( or Command + Y ) As for this " why Apple decided not to do such obvious operations in Mac OS X ? " you just need to remember that what you are used to in Windows is n't necessarily obvious , it 's just what you are used to . Everything has an equivalent in OS X , you just need to learn what is different , and eventually you might even come to think that the OS X equivalents are actually more obvious than what you use now ( Command + R instead of F5 for Refresh , for example ... )
The Acrobat Reader installer not only installs the application itself into but contains a bunch of other packages which need to get installed into other places ( e.g. browser plugins ) . These things ca n't get installed by just using a simple application bundle ( at least not as easily ) . <URL>
You certainly can . In iTunes , you can choose where your music library is stored : If you want multiple iTunes accessing the library , it can get complicated . If other music players just use the folder structure , it should just work . Extra scripts and config options can be set up so that iTunes uses a small local library if the network drive is not mounted , etc. .
Sorry but there is no way to reformat a Hard Drive while keeping the current data intact . You can either move the data off , reformat to HFS + then move the data back on or add a second partition that is HFS + , move the data to that partition then remove the old NTFS partition and expand the HFS + one .
You ca n't , as Apple does n't provide this ability . From <URL> : You can not merge two or more Apple IDs into a single one . You can , however , use one Apple ID for iCloud services and another Apple ID for store purchases ( including iTunes in the Cloud and iTunes Match ) . You can keep using all the old apps , but they wo n't update without the original password for the original Apple ID . In practice , you will eventually tire of the prompts or delete the apps in question . In the short term , you can use them all without needing the other account name or password .
end question
start question
How do I install Eclipse ?
Unfortunately Eclipse is not a well behaved app . Yo need the Eclipse.app and the other files in the downloaded directory to keep the same relative directory structure . Thus you need to move the whole directory from Downloads as is . I moved it to ~ / eclipse.helios and then dragged the Eclipse.app into the Dock .
If I remember correctly , you should be able to install Ubuntu into Boot Camp , and then virtualize it using Parallels Desktop . Works great with Windows ; most likely with Ubuntu as well .
disable Gatekeeper ( " Allow applications downloaded from : Anywhere " ) run Eclipse once reset Gatekeeper to a more strict level ( " Mac Store and identified developers " . ) Doing this has allowed me to start Davmail , also a Java app , after Mountain Lion initially claimed the binary was corrupt ( " App is damaged and ca n't be opened " error message ) even when back on the stricter level . Another option , as mentioned in John Siracusa 's <URL> , is to do the following from the Terminal : I have not ( yet ) personally tested this but John 's a solid source .
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
I got this error I tried updating the Java to the latest Java 8 update 25 but still did n't work . but after going to the recommended website from apple and download and install it : <URL> it worked just fine again . It was able to start . It says Java 6 . I 'm not really sure what other repercussions will be . It 's like a downgrade . i still do have 1.7 in my eclipse compiler though .
Launch the Terminal mail app with : You 'll see a list of all your messages . From the mail prompt , do And that should be it . Make sure do to the after the command , that saves the changes to disk .
I 've managed to get DBP installed on my Mac ( version 10.6.8 ) . I 've made the compiled plugin available on my blog , since compiling Gimp from MacPorts took an overnight compilation session , and is way too much hassle for folks who just want to plug-n-play . So ... anyone is welcome to <URL> as they wish . If it 's useful , please comment , and if it does n't work , please comment ; in either case if you can state versions of OS X and Gimp , that will hopefully help other users trying to avoid compiling it themselves !
That would be under System Prefs > Trackpad ( or mouse , if you use that instead ) > Screen Zoom options :
always is your home folder ( for instance ) . If ~ / . vim exists , that 's where you 'll find it . Unless you 've used vim before , the folder likely will not already exist , so to create the folder , open Terminal.app and type Assuming you downloaded ColorSamplerPack.zip to your Downloads folder you can then proceed with to unpack the content into the folder . A restart of gvim may be required afterwards . On second thought , the same result can be accomplished by just opening Terminal.app and executing
<URL> for almost all devices on 03/24/16 which means you ca n't install it . And no , <URL> to iOS 9.3 since Apple is no longer signing it . Update : iOS 9.3 ( 13E237 ) has been released on 03/28/16 for most devices , so you should be able to download the new firmware and install now . If you still ca n't install , you likely have one of the few devices that still do n't have an updated version of iOS 9.3 . You can check your device 's signing status <URL> .
Troubleshooting a slow mac is fairly easy , but sometimes tedious . You will want to and quit all apps . You might even go to the Users &amp; Groups preference and remove all applications that start when you log in to your Mac . Turn off WiFi and then shut down the Mac so you can start isolating it . Remove all peripherals except the keyboard , display and power cord . Power on and then log in and let it run for 5 minutes and then take a snapshot of the Activity Monitor . Look and see what CPU usage is and if the background tasks are taking any CPU time . If so , dig deeper - open terminal and run " sudo sysdiagnose " If not , go ahead and connect your peripherals one at a time . Check the CPU/Activity Monitor and watch both the Memory Pressure graph and the CPU . If you want , you can also look at energy , but that 's better for half hour snapshots for me . At this point , you should know the OS is fine and all of your peripherals and hard drives are not causing the slowness . Now go ahead and start the apps you choose to run when it 's slow . Again , you are still disconnected from any network - just checking the OS and the CPU . When that 's fine , you can conclude that the data coming in from the network was causing a load the OS was n't handling . If you can narrow things down , get a from a clean start and again when it is " slow " and post a second question with details of what your initial troubleshooting has shown .
This has happened to me in the past . The solution that worked for me was making sure that the disc surface is clean and scratch free , and I mean very clean . Using normal CD wipes is good to get dirt off , but if it is scratched more than slightly , then you may have problems . Or the disc may be defective from the factory , it does happen and they do exist . Try talking to your local Apple Store about a possible replacement , or if worst comes to the worst , you can order one <URL> ( Apple still stocks them ) . Hope this helps !
Microsoft has officially released Skype for Business for Mac on October 26th , 2016 . You can find the official download link here : <URL> If you are using Homebrew ( and Cask ) , you can install Skype for Business for Mac with the following commands :
You can remove all settings and information from your iPhone using " Erase All Content and Settings " in Settings > General > Reset . If that does n't help you can also try the same from iTunes , see <URL> for details . Connect your iPhone to your computer Select it when it appears under Devices Select the Summary tab , and click the Restore button verify to reset to factory settings and erase all data Afterwards you can restore your data again from a previous backup in iTunes .
When you turn on the computer , put the disc in the drive with one hand , and hold down the option key with the other . This forces the Mac to look for ANY bootable media . If nothing comes up , the hard drive is blank ( as you suspect ) , and the ROM drive ca n't read the disc you are putting in ( or the ROM drive has failed ) . You can try creating a Mountain Lion USB key . Incidentally , what Mac are you putting this disc in ? A Mac Book Pro , an iMac ? What generation ? What CPU is in it ?
Xcode 6 currently requires an active <URL> or <URL> Developer Program membership , available from <URL> , as Xcode 6 and Swift is not publicly available yet . Once Xcode 6 is out of beta / prerelease anyone should be able to download it from the MAS , but that is speculation based on past experience and not something Apple has announced .
I 've never been able to figure out why this function seems so unreliable - holding D for diagnostics does n't seem to work for me in practice . I wish I had a better explanation than " many models do n't have this and even the ones that do , this is n't something I can count on . " I have come to rely on AHT that are available for authorized Apple technicians to download so you might be able to get help from one closer than an Apple Store - <URL> Apple will usually run a very good test for free as past of a genius bar appointment , and both Apple and Authorized Service will usually check a mac in for diagnostics under coverage for no charge . Out of warranty , expect to pay $ 39 to $ 85 for a diagnostic . Lastly , you can order replacement media if yours are misplaced from Apple . 800-APL-CARE
It 's actually pretty simple , in that , if it is not in the app store it ca n't be installed , unless you want to go the jailbreak route because you found an " R " app for jailbroken IOS devices .
Inside the Eclipse.app is a setting for the font size . To make the fonts globally larger edit Eclipse.app " Contents " MacOS " eclipse.ini and remove the line from the file . Save the file and restart Eclipse .
A . dmg file is kind of like an USB stick in a file and can be handled more or less the same way . To install from a . dmg file you usually do the following : double click the . dmg to make its content available ( name will show up in the Finder sidebar ) , usually a window opens showing the content as well drag the application from the . dmg window into / Applications to install ( may need an administrator password ) wait for the copy process to finish eject the . dmg ( by clicking the eject button in the Sidebar ) delete the . dmg from Downloads
end question
start question
Where does GarageBand put its downloaded instruments and loop libraries ?
As for total size , that is difficult to say . I got my GarageBand instrument , sample library and loop files from an iLife DVD installation a few years ago , rather than downloading them from the Mac App Store , which is the only way to get them today . It 's my understanding that when you first purchase and install GarageBand from the Mac App Store , you do not get all the musical instrument sample libraries and loop libraries that are listed in GarageBand 's indexes . If you try to select an instrument or loop from an index and it is not found on your Mac , then you are prompted to download another large section of the libraries . Then there are the music lessons , which you must purchase one at a time , download and install . My basic installation for GarageBand instruments and music lessons in ~ / Library/Application Support/GarageBand is 2.74 GB . The loops for GarageBand are stored in ~ / Library/Audio/Apple Loops / , and my installation is 629.9 MB . However I do not believe that I have downloaded the whole set . At an Apple retailer where I have worked , their installation in ~ / Library/Application Support/GarageBand is 14.57 GB , and their installation in ~ / Library/Audio/Apple Loops / is 32GB . This includes the GarageBand-compatible instruments and loops that you get when you purchase <URL> , which you can get from the Mac App Store for $ 30 . However , this does not include all the music lessons you can purchase within GarageBand . Furthermore , you can purchase all sorts of Audio Unit-format effects , musical instruments , sample libraries and loop libraries from third parties that you can use within Garage Band or Logic , so you could add many hundreds of gigabytes of additional material if you want to . It is worth mentioning that electronic musicians who work with large libraries of virtual instruments , samples and loops in GarageBand or other similar programs invariably move all such libraries to external high-speed disk drives so as not to slow down their systems with too much read-write activity on the system hard drive . If your work with GarageBand is simple enough -- not too many tracks in a mix -- you can work with just your Mac and system hard drive . But if you discover that Garageband is glitching , hiccuping , or failing to record or edit correctly , or you get errors about input and output being too slow , you need to incorporate additional high-speed hard disks into your system . It 's a general principle that you need at least three hard drives : your system drive inside your Mac , which holds Mac OS X and the GarageBand app an external high-speed hard drive for sample libraries , virtual instruments and loop libraries another external high-speed hard drive for recording and mixing audio tracks . All of these have to be interfaced with a high-speed interface such as FireWire 800 , USB 3.0 , or Thunderbolt . USB 2.0 will not work , because it is not fast enough for composing , recording and mixing music and audio .
Where the list of disabled fonts is stored depends on the version of OS X you are using . First of all , the and have never been used by Apple for the handling of disabled fonts ; rather , fonts are simply deactivated in place : there 's no need to move them out of the / Fonts / folder in order to deactivate them . Those folders are most likely created by the Microsoft Office installer for Mac , or some other application installer . As I mentioned , where the list of deactivated fonts is stored depends on the version of OS X you 're using . OS X 10.3 : stores a list of file paths to the fonts which have been disabled in Font Book . OS X 10.4 -- 10.6 : The enabled or disabled state of a particular font is stored within the font cache files themselves . There is no saved external record ( like the preference file used in 10.3 ) of which fonts were disabled . In OS X 10.7.x and later , while the enabled or disabled state of a particular font is still stored within the font cache files themselves , an external record of which fonts were disabled is stored in .
There 's an OS X feature called <URL> that stores the FileVault key in the SMC for the duration of the reboot . Apple acknowledges <URL> that it does reduce FileVault security for the duration of the restart : On supported hardware , allows restart of a FileVault-enabled system without requiring unlock during the subsequent boot using the command . WARNING : FileVault protections are reduced during authenticated restarts . In particular , deliberately stores at least one additional copy of a permanent FDE ( full disk encryption ) unlock key in both system memory and ( on supported systems ) the System Management Controller ( SMC ) . must be run as root and itself prompts for a password to unlock the FileVault root volume . Use to prevent saving the key across standby modes . Once is authenticated , it launches and , upon successful unlock , the unlock key will be removed .
I found a quicker way here : <URL> Basically , in ~ / Library/Mobile Documents/XXXXX ~ com ~ apple ~ mobilegarageband you 'll find the songs you 've saved in iCloud from GarageBand on iOS .
Some of the files used in restoring applications are located at . These files are updated while an application is running , and if it crashes they are used by the system to restore it ( if the application crashes during the restore process , OS X offers to discard the saved state when relaunching a second time ) . But some applications such as Chrome store more information elsewhere . Chrome stores your open tabs and other data in . There I see files such as and . ( For comparison , Safari uses . )
Nope , the latest versions of the AppleTV have 8GB of storage however the device does n't allow the user to view or modify anything about the status storage ( at least in a stock state ) . During the introduction of the first all black AppleTV Steve Jobs said , People do n't want to think about managing storage , they just want to watch movies and TV shows .
Garageband as included with iLife '08 will work fine with Tiger but you 'll need to complete the free online upgrades to 10.4 to bring it up to date .
Yes , at : ~ / Library/Preferences/com . apple.LaunchServices.QuarantineEvents . OS X uses the data in this file for the warning messages that come up when you open a downloaded app .
To confirm that my solution was to use an excellent 3rd party tool , although costly ... <URL> It managed to extract the data from my iPhone 4 . Because the iPhone was trying to update , I forced it into DFU mode which this application uses to get the data . My next step is to do a restore , which I do n't mind doing now ! :D
The Control key is used as a modifier for various purposes in different applications . In OS X , it is also used for Emacs bindings supported in many applications . The <URL> that is recommended for application developers discourages the use of the Control key ( the closest equivalent to the Control modifier key in Windows is the Command key on OS X ) : As much as possible , avoid using the Control key . Because the Control key is already used by some of the universal access features -- as well as in Cocoa text fields where Emacs-style key bindings are often used -- it should be used as a modifier key only when necessary . Here are some examples of shortcuts from <URL> : Sleep and shutdown shortcuts with Control Command-Control-power button Force your Mac to restart Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Show restart/sleep/shutdown dialog Command-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer Command-Option-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer Shift-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Put all displays to sleep Finder shortcuts with Control Command-Control-I Get Summary Info Command-Control-Up Arrow Open the folder that contains the current folder in a new window Application and other OS X shortcuts with Control ( may not work in some applications ) Control-A Move to beginning of line/paragraph Control-B Move one character backward Control-D Delete the character in front of the cursor Control-E Move to end of line/paragraph Control-F Move one character forward Control-H Delete the character behind the cursor Control-K Delete from the character in front of the cursor to the end of the line/paragraph Control-L Center the cursor/selection in the visible area Control-N Move down one line Control-O Insert a new line after the cursor Control-P Move up one line Control-T Transpose the character behind the cursor and the character in front of the cursor Control-V Move down one page Control-Tab Move focus to the next grouping of controls in a dialog or the next table ( when Tab moves to the next cell ) Shift-Control-Tab Move focus to the previous grouping of controls Control-F1 Toggle full keyboard access on or off Control-F2 Move focus to the menu bar Control-F3 Move focus to the Dock Control-F4 Move focus to the active ( or next ) window Shift-Control-F4 Move focus to the previously active window Control-F5 Move focus to the toolbar . Control-F6 Move focus to the first ( or next ) panel Shift-Control-F6 Move focus to the previous panel Control-F7 Temporarily override the current keyboard access mode in windows and dialogs Control-F8 Move to the status menus in the menu bar Command-Option-Control-Comma ( , ) Decrease screen contrast Command-Option-Control-Period ( . ) Increase screen contrast Command-Shift-Control-3 Capture the screen to the Clipboard Command-Shift-Control-4 Capture a selection to the Clipboard Command-Control-C Copy the formatting settings of the selected item and store on the Clipboard Command-Control-D Display the definition of the selected word in the Dictionary application Command-Control-V Apply formatting settings to the selected object ( Paste Ruler Command ) Control-Right Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Left Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Down Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Up Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Space bar Toggle between the current and previous input sources Option-Control-Space bar Toggle through all enabled input sources Universal
You can change the library location from the window on the tab . and select the tab . At the top where it says click the button : In the Finder window that opens , move the to the place where you 'd rather it exist . This can take some time if it 's a large library . Once it 's moved , double click on it in Finder and your Photos app will update and point to the new location .
On Windows XP On Windows Vista/Windows 7 On Mac I believe that the updates do not delete after they are installed . Via <URL> .
Apparently , Push Notifications Permission are reset if the devices are restored or the app is uninstalled for a day . Extracted from <URL> The first time a push-enabled app registers for push notifications , iOS asks the user if they wish to receive notifications for that app . Once the user has responded to this alert it is not presented again unless the device is restored or the app has been uninstalled for at least a day . Therefore , these preferences must be stored where iOS System Settings are stored .
This only hits your second requirement but , if you ask me , it 's the more important of the two by a long shot : <URL> . It can play just about anything you throw at it . It has support for play lists ( both building and saving them ) but it does not do any organization of your media . It is strictly a player .
I figured out that the problem came from fingerprint ( Touch ID ) , as when I turned their options off , it worked like charm . Just turn off those settings under " Touch ID &amp; Passcode " section : 1 . iPhone Unlock . 2 . iTunes &amp; App Store .
You can not change depth and frequency of the recorded samples , even when changing the input settings in the ( this is the way to change playback and recording settings for sound devices ) . The default values for Garage Band are 44kHz , 16 bit , stereo . They are kept in AIFF format . You can explore them by right-clicking your garage band project and choosing . The recorded files are kept in the folder . Edit ( added Logic 9 ) : In Logic 9 you can change the sampling rate ( frequency ) from the window , tab . Explained in the <URL> . To change the bit depth you should go to - > and check/uncheck ( It 's checked by default ) . It 's covered in the <URL> .
I 'm pretty sure you can do this with a hot-corner and the built-in VNC server . ( You would need a VNC viewer for iOS , there are LOTS of them . You could also create an applescript : and run it using the VNC connection . Alternatively , you can turn on ssh , ssh in , and issue the command : ( See the <URL> ) to put the mac to sleep . This would require a ssh client for iOS . Again , there are a LOT of them . Personally , I have used iSSH , and it works fine . As @mankoff stated in a comment , <URL> states in it 's store description : SLEEP AND WAKE : Put your Mac to sleep by holding the Play button for 3 seconds while controlling any Apple application , just like the hardware remote . Rowmote automatically wakes up sleeping machines which are connected via Ethernet !
I seems that I use filters in GMail to skip inbox , and the sound is actually come from Mail.app . As a result , no new mail arrives to the Inbox of Mail.app , but to the Archive of the Mail.app . In the preference of Mail.app , one option is to choose " Inbox Only " for " New message notifications " . But it seems that this option will not mute the new messages sound when new message arrive to other mailbox , only skip the notification alert that shows up in the upper right corner of the screen .
Preview 's " Reduce File Size " feature takes a 512KB file down to 254KB , but makes the text very blurry and difficult to read . On Acrobat Standard ( Windows ) , the " Reduce File size ... " feature takes the 512KB file down to 418KB , but maintains the exact same quality that the original had . Therefore , reducing the file size after the file was combined is not a good option . A better option is to use a more efficient program to combine the files ... I found out that Acrobat Standard is better than Preview at combining PDF files and maintaining a small file size . For example , if you have two 61KB files to combine , Preview will produce a 311KB file , while Acrobat ( with the " Default File Size " option enabled ) will produce a 106KB file .
You can view all your past workouts ( per day ) on the iPhone Activity app ! It gives you all the same information you see when you save the workout on your watch . You can also view past workouts in the Health app ( Workouts data in the Fitness section ) .
end question
start question
Why wo n't Migration Assistant recognize my old Time Machine backup ?
Seems that many people have difficulty restoring from a backup of a case-sensitive installation to a case-insensitive one . Please see comments for some discussion and various ideas . A work-around which seemed to be successful in this case : copy the data you need manually from the backups , using the Finder . ( I would n't expect to be able to recreate the entire machine with all settings etc this way , but documents should be easy to restore this way , and perhaps even your entire home directory . )
This is most likely the carrier intentionally deactivating the old SIM . When iPhones first came out , your current phone would normally get deactivated at the moment you purchased a new phone and told the carriers to move the service to the new phone . Now , they wait until the new phone checks in to perform the swap to account for delivery delays , backups , etc. . . Your first step should be to contact the carrier and explain that you want service on both phones and arrange for which number rings to which device . They might be able to accommodate this over the phone , but if the old SIM has been deactivated in the networks , most carriers are very unwilling ( or unable ) to re-activate the old SIM and instead ask you to get a new SIM from them at a convenient local retail spot or by them shipping you new SIM card ( s ) . Apple 's restore process and activation of the device does n't affect network activation and for locked phones , you just need a SIM for the correct carrier to activate the device . iOS does not check or care that the contract is expired , not established or live for iOS activation - just that the SIM is manufactured for the correct carrier .
If you are using an entire drive for time machine backup , I would suggest using <URL> latest version with block-to-block copy . I have seen people use Disk Utility for this but I have n't got this to work .
No - Time Machine will not preserve the encryption of the source disk since it reads the files in an unencrypted manner just like any other process once you log in to the Mac . You would need to ensure that all Time Machine destinations are also encrypted to properly secure your data both on the main computer as well as have it encrypted on the Time Machine volumes . This is as easy as ticking a checkbox on the Time Machine preference pane in system preferences . On macOS 10.12 Time Machine will throw a helpful notification if you do in fact select an unencrypted destination for encrypted OS .
The short answer is Yes . If the Time Machine drive is accessible to Windows ( via MacDrive or anything else ) , then it can be corrupted and directly destroyed . For this reason , I recommend turning off your Time Machine drive while in Windows . Another possibility is that modifications to your primary drive could cause its ID to change , which would break its association with its existing Time Machine backups . The old Time Machine backups would still be there on the backup drive , but they would be treated as being backups of a different system . It sounds like this is probably what happened . It could be because you ( or something ) renamed the primary drive or otherwise tried to change it at the root level . But since you saw a MacDrive error , its more likely a glitch in MacDrive . There 's not much you can do to prevent that except not use it . Try running a Disk Utility check on all drives , preferably while booted from a DVD or an external drive . That will at least make sure nothing worse happened .
This answer explains things for a Windows-based server , but it should work fine for Ubuntu . In Terminal , type the following command : Now , as long as you have a connection to your computer 's shared drive , you should be able to see it in Time Machine . To connect to that shared drive : Finder > Go > Connect to Server . Type in the IP address or host name of the server . You may be prompted to log in . Configure Time Machine to use the drive , and try creating a backup . Time Machine will try to create a " sparse bundle " on the drive , and will fail . Open Console and check . You will see the name of the file Time Machine was trying to create . The name of the file will be something like You will need to create a sparse bundle with this name and put it on the hard drive manually before the backups will work . To do this , open Disk Utility . Click New Image > Set image format as " sparse bundle disk image " > Set partition map to " no partition map " > Set the size as the maximum size you are willing to allot to Time Machine . Do n't modify anything else . Though the file on the hard drive will need to begin with a period , you will not be able to do this right away through Disk Utility , so just call it whatever you want right now . You can rename the file so that it has a period before its name from Terminal on OS X or Ubuntu . Your final name should be like . If everything is done right , you should now be able to use Time Machine with an Ubuntu Server . Note : This answer was copied from <URL> and has been formatted for AskDifferent . I 've used this method myself , albeit on a Windows shared drive .
Problem resolved : ( You will need another mac with a Thunderbolt port to make this work . We 'll call the problematic one A and the other one B ) Connect a Thunderbolt cable between the old machine ( A ) to another one ( B ) . Start A in target mode ( Press T on boot ) . You 'll now see A 's drive as an external drive on B 's desktop . Go to ' Startup Disk ' in ' System Preferences ' . Pick A 's drive as your boot disk . Reboot . If everything 's working , you should see A 's Finder etc. on B 's display . Connect Time Machine to B. Start it . Click ' Options ... ' and exclude B 's drive from the backup . Run another time machine backup on the HD . I eventually went out and got a new MBP ( which I was planning to do anyway ) and migrated directly from the time machine latest backup .
I 'm pretty sure you ca n't , and you would n't want to . The OS only bypasses the bundle for locally attached backup destinations . Direct attached storage ( DAS ) uses the HFS + filesystem and / Backups.backupsdb folder structure Network attached storage ( NAS ) uses the sparse bundle format to embed a HFS + filesystem on whatever filesystem that the NAS uses natively . Time Machine 's backup format plays some very interesting tricks with the Mac OS Extended filesystem that are n't really possible over a generic network storage volume . It 's also optimized to minimize network traffic when files change . This speeds both backup , browsing and restore operations and minimizes the volume of data file changes on the NAS for small changes on the source disk . In order to get TM to work over a network connection , it stores a disk image ( in sparse bundle format ) on the network server , and mounts that locally on the client . Since it 's mounted locally , the client has full access to the filesystem and can play all of the necessary tricks . So , without the . sparsebundle , you would n't be able to back up over the network since it optimizes the amount of data sent to the Time Capsule when a file changes as well as reduces the load on the Time Capsule to handle easier IO to the disk . You can still mount the sparse bundle image on any OS X machine and navigate to files . The only drawback might be if you are using an OS that does n't have a filesystem plug in for sparse bundle storage format .
The copying should work without a problem , but if you happen to upgrade to Snow Leopard at the same time , you might run into some compatibility issues , depending on the " ports " you have installed . Same goes for old " ports " that may have been specifically built for your old system ( maybe processor dependent ) , you could run into problems there , too . Remember to run , and the installed ports ( where needed ) .
Your preferred setup is not possible : OS X ca n't share an NTFS disk with Windows for backup because Time Machine needs HFS + ( from <URL> ) : Manually preparing a new disk for Time Machine ( ... ) If you want to partition the disk , click the Partition tab and select a layout . Make sure " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " is selected in the Format menu for the partition that will be used for backups . Click Apply . Luckily , you do n't need two separate drives . Using <URL> you can trick your computer into thinking it is connected to more than one drive , although there 's only one . In this case , two partitions will suffice , one HFS + and one NTFS . ( Why only one NTFS partition although you back up 3 Windows computers ? Because Windows stores backups in folders named after the computer name so there are no conflicts whatsoever ( see this <URL> ) . You can use one NTFS partition to store backups of multiple Windows computers . ) I 'd recommend that you create the HFS + partition on your Mac first , then , on your Windows computer , format the other partition to NTFS : Plug your drive into your Mac . Open Disk Utility ( in Applications/Utilities ) . Select the drive and select the Partition tab . Create two partitions . Format the first partition as HFS + ( and give it a name like " Time Machine " ) . Leave the other partition as " Free Space " . See <URL> for more details . Eject the drive and plug it into your Windows computer . Format the second partition as NTFS . When you 're done , plug the drive again into every Mac/Windows computer and select the corresponding partition as backup drive ( see <URL> for OS X and <URL> for Windows ) . To prevent the NTFS partition from being mounted every time you connect the drive into your Mac add this entry to ( as explained <URL> ) : Replace with the NTFS partition name . This setup works like a charm . I have a very similar configuration : My external 1 TB drive , which I use for backing up my Mac and my wife 's Windows PC , has two partitions called " Time Machine " and " BACKUP_WINDOWS " :
Your answer lies deep in the settings app on your iPhone . Go to iCloud - Storage &amp; Backup - Manage Storage - your device Backup settings allow you to save space in iCloud by excluding app data in the next back up . You can toggle on more and more buckets of data until the estimate is low enough to allow the next backup attempt to succeed . When you turn off data under iOS 7 where it says Backup Options : Choose the data you want to back up . - this does delete the backup copy of that data , so consider paying for more space ( or cleaning up elsewhere ) if you can not afford to lose that backup copy . Assuming you have data you are willing to risk losing or is backed up to iTunes on a computer , then you can clean enough space and add things back slowly ( triggering another backup after each addition ) once a small minimal backup has been completed successfully . <URL> Furthermore , if you go to the above screen and turn off Camera Roll backup , it will prompt you to delete these files from the iCloud server backup , freeing the space immediately ( just because you delete the videos on the device , they take up backup space on iCloud until you purge the backup by category or delete it entirely and start over ) . Your iCloud space has to remain full of files that were backed up and now deleted on the device for it to function . After a few days of backups , the old backups expire and no longer take space but in your case you might want to purge them intentionally rather than wait for it to happen programatically .
In Finder , click Go = > Connect To Server ... In the Server Address field , type " afp : / / xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx " ( IP address ) or " afp : / / your-ngnas-name . local " Connect using the credentials you use to connect to the Time Machine service . Finder will open a window in / Volumes/ReadyNAS . You should see a list Time Machine 's . sparsebundle files . At this point , you can delete a . sparsebundle . It 's also possible to Ctrl + Click on a . sparsebundle and select " Show Package Contents " to browse inside . UPDATE Sometimes files inside the sparsebundle package or the package itself will be locked , preventing deletion . To unlock : Get Info > General > Locked > uncheck .
I ended up following the instructions in the article I linked to in my original post to move my Time Machine backups to a new drive . It took 28 hours to transfer 1.9 TB of backups . I then ran Disk Utility " Verify Disk " on it and it was good . So , the errors did not transfer over . So now , I can just repartition the old drive to get rid of all the errors , which I will do after a few days of ensuring that this copy of my backups is indeed good . I later tested the transferred backup by reformatting my iMac and restoring from the TM backup , and it worked fine ( I 'm on it now ) .
Given the rather tricky use of hard-linked directories , access control settings and other special filesystem features I doubt that you will find a cloud storage which supports all this . Options you may want to consider : copy the whole Time Machine drive into the cloud as an image ( requires a lot of bandwidth at least for the initial copy ) use to periodically copy your data to a remote ( cloud ) system
Apple tried encrypting each user 's files in FileVault ( 1 ) and did away with that when FileVault 2 arrived . The easy / recommended way to do this is make no user an admin so that they can not get around the prohibition to look at other user files . Also , you will have to physically secure the backup drive or trust that no one breaks the policy to not access that drive . One easy thing you could do is have each Mac encrypt the backups by ticking that switch to prevent some users from seeing files from another computer but hat wo n't prevent same computer users that are admin and know what to type . The downside there is for several computers managing the passwords becomes onerous to a less than ideal step up in privacy . I would recommend you set up storage on a Mac mini server and have it serve up time machine to each Mac so that you can control access better than using TimeCapsule . The performance will go up substantially along with the cost . The setup is fairly easy and there are inexpensive books to guide you if needed . AppleCare also supports server so hat is extremely inexpensive for three years of phone support for enterprise caliber support .
Since I 'm running Lion , and TimeMachine uses a different file transfer ( AFP ) , I ended up setting up a FreeNAS box , and hooking a cheap WD HDD to it . If I was n't running Lion , I could have simply shared the WD HDD from my Windows 7 machine . The AFP protocol adds a bit of complexity .
Pressing on both machines will exit the migration assistant . I have a feeling that it copies all files to temporary location before installing them/creating user accounts . So you should be fine . Depending on how far in you might have problems .
You could try <URL> : it will give you the size of each backup , the backed-up files and catalog the backups with colors to quickly identify the big ones . There are also lists of files excluded by rule or that you add manually to exclusions : <URL>
I 've migrated between many macs over the years , and I 've always found that the best way to do it , is manually . Normally I use a firewire cable ( but you can also use WiFi , USB , external hard drive , dvd/cd , etc ) to hook up the two computers , then just drag over files from one computer to the other . Mostly everything the average user has on their mac will be found in their user folder ( home folder ) . You can just drag/copy this entire folder over , or you can be more selective about which folders in your home folder you move ( for instance , you may not want the folder ) . Then , anything outside of your home folder ( Applications , for one ) you can drag/copy over if you want .
As a rule of thumb system files are preserved from the fresh install and your data is copied from the Time Machine . You 've mentioned file associations -- I presume you 're referring to file associations with your own files , and therefore a Time Machine restore would copy those associations . The main exception to this is if the application that the file is associated with is missing . Then the file would change it 's association to the ' next best ' app . From the rule of thumb you can generally guess what 'll be restored and what 'll be left alone , but feel free to add more specific detail to your question .
end question
start question
How to fix dark screen after locking iphone 4 ios6 ?
I 've had that issue before , and it indeed seems to be a bug of sorts . As evidenced by the fact that one should n't have to hold their phone up to direct light , or manually adjust brightness on a frequent basis . I would recommend starting with a phone reboot - hold down the power and home button until you see the Apple logo . This may help the situation Next , you could also try turning off " Automatic Brightness " . Open the Settings app , tap " Brightness &amp; Wallpaper " , then switch " Auto-Brightness " off .
What 's an FKEY ? FKEY 's ( Function Keys ) are resources containing executable code that are called upon by hitting the keys Command-Shift - # ( any number 0-9 ) at the same time . In the standard System file there are two FKEY 's ; with an ID # 3 and # 4 that are used to dump the current screen or window onto disk or printer .1 So far as I can remember/find , screenshot commands were first added to the OS itself in <URL> .2 1 Text and image from <URL> by John Holder ( MacTech magazine , 1988 ) 2 Further reading/references : <URL> and a forum posting from 2003 , <URL> ( the latter of which features some guy named <URL> ) .
As others already let clear , Apple does n't offer any good solution for those issues . They should n't exist , Apple would say . But they do . That said , your best bet is jailbreaking and getting <URL> to " Free Memory " or some specific app that does it , such as <URL> . I 've just installed it on mine through <URL> , but you can also find it on <URL>
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
The behavior you describe is inconsistent . In my experience , sometimes the podcast will continue and sometimes the iOS device will switch to the music app . I believe ( but have n't confirmed ) that this depends on whether or not the podcast app , be it Apple 's or third party , is still considered active by the system . When it occurs I just open my podcast app and playback of the the last podcast resumes ( unless I was streaming it in which case I may have to hit play . ) Because this is a memory management issue there is no way to force the behavior you seek using a dedicated podcast app . However , if you uninstall Apple 's Podcasts you can continue to download podcasts using iTunes and can move them over to your iOS device with a playlist . This solution is less than ideal -- for example you ca n't download fresh podcasts directly to the device . iOS 7 UPDATE : It is my understanding that under iOS 7 you no longer have the ability to listen to podcasts from within the Music app . Perhaps better memory management and multitasking will provide resumed playback more consistently , but it seems that a podcast client ( or listening via Safari ) will be required .
When you connect your iPad/iPhone you choose your device in left column under the Devices section , then got the Apps tab and select the Apps you want to sync ( Screenshot in german but looks the same in english ) : Afterwards select " Synchronize " at the bottom right to update your iDevice .
iOS 5 and iCloud should be coming out tomorrow . There should be improvements in this area . Hopefully this will help you . I know it is not what you would want to hear , but I have seen disappearing content like you describe . Especially with Exchange , and OS 10.6.x
Go to configuration by type in address bar and press enter key then enter scroll in filter box , now you can change all scroll options .
You need to install XCode 4.1 from the app store , which will replace XCode 4.0 with 4.1 . When updating XCode to 4.1 you will get a message to quit iTunes to continue the installation . The installation is actually waiting for iTunesHelper process to be terminated . You can terminate the iTunesHelper process using activity monitor . On my Mac the upgrade to XCode 4.1 failed . So I needed to uninstall XCode 4.0 first .
I used <URL> ( PDF ) to cut my normal SIM into microSIM format . It was very easy to follow and it works perfectly !
Yes . You can always restore from and older to a newer iOS version , however you ca n't go from a newer iOS version and restore to an older version .
The iPhone ( apart from the obvious phone/messaging features ) , will give you an ultra-portable computing device to carry around with you when you are not near your iMac or do n't want to open the Macbook Pro . This will give you the ability to check your emails , browse websites , listen to music , watch podcasts and even record and edit videos . You will also be able to read books and take part in the eco-system of hundreds of thousands of 3rd party applications that available on the Apple App Store . Best of all , because all your devices are from Apple , you benefit from not only knowing how most of these items work and are configured , but the huge benefit of interoperability . You most probably have your music in iTunes already , so you 're music can be synced with your new iPhone . Your web bookmarks are probably already in Safari , so can be synced with Safari on the iPhone .
You could just <URL> like this : See for a reference of the date format .
Your iPhone 4 supports iOS 5.0 , which can now sync photos wirelessly using <URL> . For setup instructions , see <URL>
This is the first I hear about this so-called " counter " . I do n't believe in such and I 'm pretty sure when you restore an iPhone using DFU modus , the iPhone is completely wiped clean . As a matter of facts , I 've jailbroken all my iPhones so far and passed by the Apple Genius bar several times . Once I even forgot to restore the device when asking a Genius for help . And he just smiled at me and said " jailbreak , right ? What 's your favorite app ? " :) So , no . I do n't think there is such a counter and you 're safe with a DFU Full restore .
No . The iPhone can either act as a client or an Access Point , not both simultaneously . If the WiFi access is n't registered against the device 's MAC address then you should be able to use the login on either the iPhone or Laptop ( but probably not at the same time ) . If it is MAC address based registration then you could register with your iPhone and then change your Laptop 's MAC address to match the iPhone 's MAC address so that you only have to buy one WiFi access card .
I think your friend is confusing sea shanties with reality . What old mariners call " salt air " is really just the smell of decaying seaweed and dead fish . Salt , being a solid crystal , ca n't evaporate , so if there 's any " salt in the air " it would be in the form of salt rocks flying around . I imagine that 's probably a lot less likely than " sand in the air " , since there 's typically not a lot of unsequestered salt at the beach . Also , I put salt crystals in glass all the time ( e.g. , measuring cups ) , and have yet to see the salt scratch the glass at all , so I think the chances of this hypothetical " salt in the air " causing damage to an iPhone are practically nonexistent . I would worry more about a seagull pooping on it .
From Wikipedia : <URL> Although they are not yet at the power levels to replace xenon flash devices in still cameras , LEDs ( specifically , high current flash LEDs ) have recently been used as flash sources in camera phones . LEDs are expected to approach the power levels of xenon in the near future and may replace built-in xenon flashes in still cameras . The major advantages of LEDs over xenon include low voltage operation , higher efficiency and extreme miniaturization . So , now that we know that we have a LED ( Light Emitting Diode ) in there , let 's see how much should that live ( according the the super-experts @ wikipedia ) : <URL> ( read all that for more info ) Short answer : " Typical lifetimes quoted are 25,000 to 100,000 hours but heat and current settings can extend or shorten this time significantly . " Now do you think your iPhone will last 25,000 hours ( worst case scenario for the LED ) ? That 's a little bit less than three years . It 's certainly possible for an iPhone to last much more than that ( I still use a 1s-gen iPhone ) , however , I highly doubt that you 're going to use it with the flash ON , for three years , non-stop . :)
By now it is possible to down-grade your baseband - at least for the iPhone 3G and 3GS ( unfortunately not 4/S ) - from the iPad 's 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( un-lockable ) thanks to the great work of the iPhone Dev Team : The iPhone Dev Team is happy to announce a baseband downgrade option in redsn0w for those who are using the iPad 's 06.15 baseband on the iPhone3G or iPhone3GS . Typically you 'd have the 06.15 baseband if you unlock with ultrasn0w but updated your iPhone baseband past 05.13.04 . With this new capability , you can now downgrade specifically from 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( even if you never had 05.13.04 on that device before ) . This gives you the best of both worlds : ultrasn0w compatibility and a normal iPhone baseband with full GPS and the ability to use stock IPSWs again . See <URL> on their blog .
It is almost certain that you have a hardware problem , something wrong with the actual touchscreen . Since the iPhone 4 is less than a year old it 's still under warranty , Apple will fix it for free . If you have n't done so already you can try a complete restore of your iPhone , erasing everything and returning it to it 's brand new state ( after backing it up ) . Odds are not good that this will fix it , but it 's worth a shot , especially if having Apple repair it is a hassle . Apple explains how to back it up and restore it here : <URL>
end question
start question
How do I reset my ipod touch 1st gen 's password ?
Found it and putting it here for reference , simply hold the home and power button down for 10 seconds ( ignoring the power off slider when it comes up ) then keep the home button pressed down and release the power button . This needs to be done while connected to iTunes . At that point iTunes will offer to restore it .
Yes - I had to do this for the same devices : 2G to 4G . I think I just synced the new iPod Touch ( there is no such thing as an iTouch ) with iTunes , and everything went over , but I might have had to restore a backup from the old to the new .
Enabling the root user decreases security . Apple turns it off by default which means that someone trying to perform a remote log in both has to guess an admin user name and the password . It 's not a huge decrease in security , since all admin users can become root knowing an admin password , but by enabling root , you have either doubled the exposure ( the first account on a Mac has to be an Admin account and the root doubles the exposure ) or if you have several Admin accounts , it increases the number by one . Since it only takes one password to be guessed or " stolen " - having fewer openings is a more secure stance from a numbers and chance standpoint .
I would try to fix it , sell it , or recycle it . In that order . Try looking into fixing the iPod if your up for the task , since like you said there should be nothing really wrong with it other than a super dead battery . Probably the only thing you would need to buy to fix it is a new battery and a few simple tools to aid in opening the case . I recommend looking at <URL> from iFixit . Once you fix it , you tremendously increase its value and make it a better candidate to sell to people who do n't like fixing things themselves . A 20GB iPod still holds its own in 2012 for playing music , and there are a lot of people who would find this device useful , and hence the parts as well even if you do n't fix it . Its worth much more than most small electronics things going to be recycled . After fixing it or not you could try to sell it on eBay , a yard sale , flea-market , Craigslist , etc. . Working today March 16 , 2012 its worth about $ 50 USD and for parts about $ 10 according to recent eBay completed listing prices . And again if you do n't fix it you can still try to sell it for parts . However if you do n't fix it that may not be a good idea if you have personal information still stored on the iPod , eg address book , photos , etc. . Because you will not get a chance to erase it . But if your not worried about losing any personal information from the iPod then by all means you can just sell it as is without having to break it open . And lastly if you just do n't want to deal with it anymore than just getting rid of it . Check into your local responsible recycling options , you may be able to simply drop it off at a nearby retail store or community waste disposal location that accepts electronics waste . Contact the people who take away your trash and see what their options and recommendations are . If your in the USA you may find the following <URL> from <URL> useful .
It appears that the login gets blocked after the wrong password is entered too often ( see <URL> ) . Maybe somebody else has a AppleID similar to yours ( or you fell victim to a DOS attack ) .
Apple uses WiFi hotspots ( and presumably the corresponding signal strength ) to triangulate your position using a data from Apple . Similar to how Google maps a hotspot using their StreetView cars , a 3rd party at one time scanned the area you travelled to and mapped the SSID and probably MAC address of the local hotspots . Though I do n't know if they still do , Apple at one time did not maintain this information internally but sourced it from a 3rd party . Some of the initial privacy concerns about iOS regarded how this information was ' phoned home ' to Apple without consent ; That is , when your iPod was connected and ' knew ' its location , it would also scan the local SSIDs and send them to Apple to improve/update the database . This data was sourced by <URL> . Based on my own inference from experience ( though not 100 % sure , and I no longer use an iPod , so even if this was true at one time it may not anymore be so ) , when you map a route in Maps , it caches the relevant SSID information for the areas to which you are travelling before it goes offline .
The iPod Touch has a lithium-ion battery , which really does not need to be conditioned like the older battery technologies did . In fact , completely discharging a lithium-ion battery too often can severely shorten its life , so I would n't recommend doing a full discharge too often . And I would n't recommend using something that goes outside the normal voltage range of the battery either . Discharging occasionally , perhaps once every 30 charges , can help to calibrate the battery so that it can given a better indication of run-time . Apple <URL> discharging completely about once a month . Lithium-ion has a limited life-span anyway , typically 300-500 cycles ; and they degrade over time too . How quickly they degrade depends on how hot they 've been stored . ( See <URL> for more information on this )
Yes . The " location services " work the same way on all iOS devices , while the specifics of how that data is obtained are hidden from the application . This Apple support article might be helpful to you : <URL>
Yes , if they activated " Keychain " using another device you should change your passwords . Keep in mind that activating " Keychain " in the iCloud preferences should require you to confirm the device using another device . Please check to see how your account 's authentication is currently set up ( e.g. log out of your Apple ID on your Mac ( iCloud ) , turn on iCloud using your Apple ID and try to activate " Keychain " . Now your Mac should prompt you to activate Keychain using on of your other devices .
I just solved my question . As it turns out , the password is stored in the Keychain Access . I just searched for the server and ticked the " Show password " checkbox on that particular item . Problem solved !
Since my speaker system is hooked up to my desktop computer I use <URL> to airplay music and podcasts from my iphone to my desktop .
Having used 4.2 GM on my iPhone 4 for a couple of weeks now I personally find it much much better at managing and minimising memory usage ( regular checks using iStat ) . This should translate to better performance on older devices with limited RAM as less RAM to flash swapping will be required .
Fully charge the iPod Touch Go to the Settings menu . Scroll down until you see the " General " settings , and hit that , then scan to the very bottom , where you 'll see a mini-menu titled " Reset . " Press this . This will bring up a few different options , but the one you want is " Erase All Content and Settings . " ( ) you can see full detailed <URL> . Also you can use itunes , and go to the <URL> . This will take your ipod back to factory default .
The application you point out is a Mac only application . That 's why it does n't work on Windows Vista . However , here 's two alternatives : <URL> which is a paid multiplatform app <URL> which is less polished and windows only , but free . You may as well be interested by <URL> which allow to browse any connected iOS device without jailbreaking them . It does the job and works on Mac OS &amp; Windows . It 's a shareware , but the demo is fully usable .
It is a feature called activation lock <URL> I would suggest changing your Apple ID password to something simple then after about 5 minutes change it back
I solved this by creating a separate iPhoto Library and storing that Library within a password-protected encrypted sparse image . ( You create sparse images using Disk Utility . ) I 've appended a step-by-step tutorial to the end of this answer . I then created an alias to the private library and stored that alias in my Pictures folder alongside my regular libraries . To open the private Library , double click on the alias icon . You will be prompted for a password so that the encrypted image can mount on the desktop . When you 're done , be sure to " eject " the disk image . iPhoto defaults to opening the last Library opened so if you want the program to open the " regular " file next time , go ahead and open that Library . ( You can either double click it 's Library icon or open iPhoto while holding down the Option key . ) I 've just developed the habit of opening iPhoto using the appropriate Library icon from my Pictures folder . The disadvantage of this method is that you ca n't mix " private " images into your iPhone sync and it 's possible that leaving iPhoto with the wrong " default " library could interfere with an iOS sync . ( I use Aperture for my main photo collection/iOS sync anyway , so I have n't fully explored this . ) Creating an encrypted , Password-Protected iPhoto Library -- Step-by-Step The reality is that many of us have pictures we want to keep but do n't necessarily want to share with partners , children or grandparents . What happens at Burning Man stays at Burning Man . Right ? To keep those pictures from prying eyes -- and inadvertant display on your big screen TV via AppleTV -- I advocate using a separate iPhoto library for your private pictures and protecting that library by storing it inside an encyrpted container . I 'm keying this tutorial to Mac OS X 10.7 Lion and iPhoto '11 ( current at time of writing ) but this system will work for previous versions of the software . ( To a point -- the encrypted disk image was added to the OS in 10.3 . ) You can use this method to safeguard Aperture libraries as well . Open your existing iPhoto Library and select the images you want to put into the encrypted library . One way of doing this is to <URL> to those pictures . I used fmeo ( short for for my eyes only ) . Next <URL> that includes the images you tagged . Export or copy the tagged images into a folder on your desktop . Leave the images in your original iPhoto Library until you 're sure you 've sucessfully completed this entire process -- but do n't forget to go back and delete the images once you 're satisfied with the results . Next you need to <URL> for your private images . Quit iPhoto if it 's open . Open iPhoto while holding the Option key down . Create a new library from the dialog box displayed . I named mine FMEO . I strongly suggest you not give it a name like Pictures I Do n't Want My Spouse To See because the filename will be visible in the Finder if follow my complete plan . Import the images you want to protect into iPhoto ( making sure you 're using the FMEO library ) and organize them as you see fit . When you 're happy with the results , quit iPhoto . You can safely delete the Finder folder containing these images . Use <URL> if you 're concerned that someone will try to recover the deleted files . So far , all you 've done is created a separate library for your private photos . It is n't protected in any way . In fact , assuming the FMEO library was the last library used , iPhoto will display your private images the next time it 's opened . The secret to keeping those images from prying eyes is to store the library inside an encrypted container . Fortunately , Apple provides everything you need to create this container free of charge in OS X ( 10.3 + ) . Open Disk Utility . ( It 's in your Utilities folder . ) Create an <URL> : Choose New > Blank Disk Image from the menu Enter a name . Again , be discreet as this name will definitely be visible from the Finder . Choose a size for your container . It must be big enough to contain the current library and , assuming you want the ability to add images in the future , should allow ample room for future growth . You can afford to be a little generous with this because you 're going to use a <URL> image format , meaning the container will initially only take up as much disk space as its contents plus a little overhead and will grow ( but never shrink ) as necessary up to it 's maximum formatted size . Do n't worry too much about creating an image that you might outgrow someday as you can always create a new sparse image file and transfer the library into a bigger home if your library becomes too large . For Format Just use the default Mac OS X Extended ( Journaled ) unless you have a compelling reason not to . Same for Parition settings , just leave them be unless you know better . Encryption : I 'd suggest 128-bit ( more than adequate for most purposes ) but you 're free to use a higher level if you think it 's necessary . Click Create button . Enter a good password when prompted . Do not store the password in the keychain because that would
No , I hate screenprotectors Most of them really do n't There are certainly bad ones , that are hard to apply or peel off easily , I 've even had one that would blur the screen Only the ones that blur your screen ;-) They have a slightly matte finish so fingerprints wo n't be as obvious Yes , yes , and yes . I suggest you just replace them , they 're not that expensive I believe it is all stupid ... They just make you feel better . The glass on the new iPhone is incredibly difficult to scratch , and even the older ones hardly scratch at all . I suggest you stop caring so much about a little scratch , the device is supposed to be used . You 'll hardly notice it if there even ARE tiny scratches . If you want to protect it , what you really need to worry about is the thing breaking after you drop it , try a protective case instead . :-)
You can easily check the model of the device using information found in Settings > General > About and a simple Google search . . Open the Settings app and select General . From the General * pane select * About . Scroll down in the About pane until you find the Model . Type the model number into a Google search box . That should be sufficient , but you can add additional search terms like Apple or iPod Touch if need be .
To import audio files into Garageband for iOS , connect your iOS device to your computer . Then do the following : On your computer : Open iTunes Click your device in the left-hand column Click " Apps " in the bar at the top of the right-hand pane Under " File Sharing " select " Garageband " in the " Apps " column Click " Add ... " in the bottom-right of the " GarageBand Documents " area In the dialog that opens up , select the file ( s ) you want to transfer over Once you 've selected the file ( s ) , it transfers over to your iOS device . On your iOS device : Open GarageBand If you 're not already , switch to the multi-track view by tapping the button In the upper right-hand area , you should see a loop icon with the number of newly transferred files on top of it , like this : Tap this icon . It brings up a screen like this : Just like the screen says , you can tap and hold and drag the desired audio files into your track listings . They each appear as Audio Recorder tracks : That 's it ! There is one caveat : GarageBand for iOS is limited to a maximum of 320 " bars " for the length of a project , and it does not appear that it 's possible to bypass this . If you need to edit audio that 's longer than that , you will need to use another app .
looks like they just updated to version 2.8.1202 , release notes say " Quick Deposit for iPod touch - Now you can use your camera-enabled iPod touch to make a deposit . "
end question
start question
What is the keystroke to switch between windows in a guest os ( Ubuntu ) in VirtualBox ?
You have to hit the Left COMMAND key once and the mouse switches to finder and other apps . If you click inside of virtualbox it activates the virtual machine which in this case is ubuntu . ( This assumes that you are running in the default mode which captures on click ) . It 's confusing because it 's displayed with a left arrow , but what they really mean is the left COMMAND key . ( The one that looks like it has a four leaf clover on it ) . The key looks like this : ⌘ It 's also known as the Apple key . This key is on either side of the space bar . Each works the same . So for example if you wanted to print a document in Windows you could use the keyboard shortcut CONTROL + " P " ( Press the control key , continue to hold it while pressing the " P " key ) , on a Mac they use a different key - it 's the COMMAND Key not the CONTROL key so you need to press ⌘ and the letter " P " to print . So if you know several keyboard shortcuts for Microsoft Windows , just try them on the Mac but instead of using the CONTROL key substitute the COMMAND key . The CONTROL key , SHIFT key , OPTION key , and COMMAND key ( or Apple key as some like to call it ) , are all what 's called modifier keys . You press them to modify the function of other keys on your computer . However in Virtual Box they have mapped the left one , to the left of the spacebar to allow you to leave the virtual host 's screen and return to Apple 's Finder or any other program that 's currently running .
From <URL> When you mute your iPad , only certain sounds are muted . Sounds such as alerts , notifications , sound effects , and game audio are muted . Media playback ( such as music , podcasts , movies , videos , and TV shows ) are not muted . So , that would explain why background music/videos are n't muted when I 'm using our iPad .
It is possible to downgrade to iOS5 . You will just have to " trick " iTunes into thinking you are restoring from one of you backups . Just make sure to first make a backup of your current settings . Then it 's just a matter of restoring from the " fake " backup ( IPSW-file ) . You can download an IPSW ( backup file ) from <URL>
Yes , Google Chrome has a sandboxed built-in version of Flash . Download Chrome . Navigate to : Macintosh HD > Users > Guests Right Click and select " New Folder " and change its name to Applications Open the Google Chrome disk image and drag Chrome.app to this folder Google Chrome and its Flash player will only be accessible to the Guest user .
There are three categories : Top Free , Top Paid , and Top Grossing . In the Top Free category , the apps with the most downloads that have a price of $ 0 make the list . In the Top Paid category , the apps with the most downloads that have a price greater than $ 0 make the list . The Top Grossing category lists the apps with the highest total revenue ( that is , price * quantity sold + revenue from in-app purchases ) . A $ 50 app is likely to have fewer downloads than at $ 0.99 app . The Top Paid list will likely include many inexpensive apps that get purchased often . The Top Grossing category is to indicate which apps have the highest total spent on them .
I just discovered that it can be done by switching to the adjacent workspace using Ctrl + Left ( or Right ) arrow . Update : After I restarted the OS ( or maybe created a new user , sorry not sure ) I noticed that when I switch to new profiles they are now created under the same app group so I can do again Cmd + tilde . Update 2 : I just discovered that the green maximize icon now in Yosemite will now full screen the app . The shortcut to maximize the length and width of the app window can be found in this question <URL> ⌥ + ⇧ + Click on green or outer right icon ( plus icon )
The easiest way is to install from <URL> and follow the provided instructions . Example output : Once you are done , you can create your own scripts under .
The typical place for this kind of information is one of ( for OS specific stuff ) ( for system-wide preferences/settings valid for all users ) ( for user-specific preferences/settings ) and the folders beneath them ( e.g. and ) . They are saved as individual files , usually named so you can identify them and with a structure which is ( at least most of the time ) understandable by mere humans . Most of these files are Property List files ending in which can be pretty-printed into a human-readable form by running in Terminal .
The only difference between those two categories is how iTunes groups things by default . In the Movies view , there 's not grouping . All movies are displayed alphabetically by default . In the TV Show view things are grouped by show -- so you get a single icon for each show and you drill down to access the episodes within the show .
As you 've pointed out , there is plenty of virtualisation software . However , the most famous are Parallels and VMware Fusion ( the other ones I have n't used , so I ca n't give you an opinion about them ) . In my opinion , Parallels is the more robust one and gives me the best performance . There are a lot of <URL> going one between both camps and there both apps have their ( dis ) advantages . For me , Parallels is the best way to go , because it has the <URL> For most people it 's a close race and they let the price decide . Both companies often hold special sales , so you should look for those kind of things .
You have to hit the Left COMMAND key once and the mouse switches to finder and other apps . If you click inside of virtualbox it activates the virtual machine which in this case is ubuntu . ( This assumes that you are running in the default mode which captures on click ) . It 's confusing because it 's displayed with a left arrow , but what they really mean is the left COMMAND key . ( The one that looks like it has a four leaf clover on it ) . The key looks like this : ⌘ It 's also known as the Apple key . This key is on either side of the space bar . Each works the same . So for example if you wanted to print a document in Windows you could use the keyboard shortcut CONTROL + " P " ( Press the control key , continue to hold it while pressing the " P " key ) , on a Mac they use a different key - it 's the COMMAND Key not the CONTROL key so you need to press ⌘ and the letter " P " to print . So if you know several keyboard shortcuts for Microsoft Windows , just try them on the Mac but instead of using the CONTROL key substitute the COMMAND key . The CONTROL key , SHIFT key , OPTION key , and COMMAND key ( or Apple key as some like to call it ) , are all what 's called modifier keys . You press them to modify the function of other keys on your computer . However in Virtual Box they have mapped the left one , to the left of the spacebar to allow you to leave the virtual host 's screen and return to Apple 's Finder or any other program that 's currently running .
You may need two approaches : one to switch the version for the applet plug-in alone another approach to switch the version for other parts of the JRE without switching the version for the applet plug-in . My <URL> : Java 8 for apps that do not use the plug-in Java 7 Update 9 for the applet plug-in . To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 quit web browsers and any other apps that use Java or the Java applet plug-in install JDK 8 set aside the plug-in install JRE 7 Update 9 or JDK 7 Update 09 . Setting aside : suggested move If you plan to switch frequently , you may prefer a different temporary location . Result At the same time : To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Answers under : <URL> To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 Install JDK 7 Update 09 then JDK 8 the OS and apps will default to use the greatest version . Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 7 Update 9 . To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 6 Update 37 . Example Generally For users of OS X , some of what 's provided by Oracle is initially misleading : <URL> ... and so on . Simplicity Whilst none of the above is as simple as switching with the Java Preferences app previously installed by Apple , the relatively simple approach of setting aside ( no need for special uninstallation ) is reminiscent of the wish for drag-and-drop installation ... <URL> in the <URL> area . Someone might like to build an app , but I should not recommend using symlinks -- it would work , but could be inconsistent with future drag-and-drop approaches to installation . Side notes At the time of writing , the most recent <URL> are ( for platforms other than OS X ) Java 6 Update 37 and ( for platforms including OS X ) Java 7 Update 9 . As greater releases will be made available , please reinterpret this answer accordingly . Java version terminology in this answer is in line with <URL> terminology .
No , unless you buy a specific mouse The option to define custom mouse acceleration curves was present in OS X 10.4 , but apple simplified it in 10.5 , and removed it entirely in 10.6 . <URL> is a supposedly forthcoming pref-pane that completely replaces the OS X mouse HID kext . However , development is really slow , or stalled . Personally , I have poked about a bit in the kernel myself , but am unfamiliar with kernel programming . Fixing the mouse acceleration on OS X will at minimum require a custom kext , which is non-trivial to code . The option that is out there is to buy a Microsoft mouse , and use it on OS X. Microsoft has released <URL> for their mice that <URL> . Essentially , the windows " Enhance Pointer Precision " option applies linear velocity-based acceleration to the mouse movements , e.g. the distance moved is proportional to the speed the mouse moves . Think of it as basically having the DPI of the mouse inversely proportional to the mouse 's speed . OS X on the other hand , has a stepped acceleration curve , where the mouse moves at one DPI when slow , and another when moved faster then a threshold . There are pref-panes that let you disable OS X 's acceleration curve , but none that allow you to substitute windows . As far as I can tell ( and this is opinion ) , this curve is optimized for trackpads . In my opinion , it is more then useless for mice ( using a mac mouse actually damaged my mousing efficacy on windows , which really affects my work ( CAD Stuff ) ) . Personally , I have entirely dispensed with the idea of using a mouse on OS X , and ust bought a Magic Trackpad .
Whichever dictionaries you enable in the Dictionary app 's preferences will be available in the dictionary popover . You could either change these whenever you want to switch , or perhaps just leave both languages enabled all the time .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
By default the directory should not be directly writable , by other then root , without being prompt for permission with other users in Finder and or using from the command line . IMO should be used over for most applications as that is the default location . Also I certainly do not want to bloat out my Home folder with applications . I like keeping User Data separate from the OS and Applications , it just makes logical sense for many reasons .
It seems the theoretical limit is <URL> hard links on an HFS + volume . Indirect node files have a special identifying number called a link reference . The link reference is unique among indirect node files on a given volume . The link reference is not related to catalog node IDs . When a new indirect node file is created , it is assigned a new link reference randomly chosen from the range 100 to 1073741923 . The limit for links to a single file is <URL> , the maximum number of a UInt32 , which is about four times larger than the volume limit , which you 'll exhaust first . linkCount For indirect node files , this field contains the number of hard links that point at this indirect node file . As a practical matter , this design is quite strange , and suffers from performance issues . The more hard links you have on a volume , the slower it will be to create a new one , as the system must first find an unused link reference number , then insert it into the metadata directory . Then that metadata directory must be searched to dereference a hard link . You may begin seeing performance problems with only a few thousand links ; your great-grandchildren wo n't live long enough to create a billion if you start today . In practice you 'll notice this most often when <URL> , which use hard links extensively .
You ca n't set it to go back to the last Desktop you were in , but you can set it to go to a specific Desktop when you exit full screen . Just move the application in windowed mode to the desktop you want , right-click the app in the Dock and set to " This Desktop " . Whenever you come out of full screen , it will always go into windowed mode in that particular desktop .
You can press the option key to change the behaviour move instead of copy between different volumes copy instead of move on the same volume
A multi-output device allows you to mirror audio output to multiple devices at the same time . An aggregate device allows you to tie multiple devices together to appear as one , single , device with more I/O than any one single device has . Aggregation has a lot of applications in music production where you might want to use more than one audio capture device at the same time from Logic Audio or GarageBand . To do this , you aggregate devices in to one new , virtual device and access the single device from within Logic . Some examples might help illustrate the difference . Example 1 : Multi-Output Device Let 's say I wanted to play music in iTunes and have the audio go to my iMac 's built-in speakers and my AppleTV via AirPlay at the same time . How would I do this ? I would create a new , multi-output device . Assign both my Built-In Output and AirPlay sources to this device and then select it as my output device for audio on my iMac . Now audio played in iTunes goes to both my iMac 's speakers and my AppleTV at the same time -- it 's mirrored . Example 1 : Aggregate Device Let 's say I wanted to record 4 streams of mono audio at the same time but all I have are two audio input devices that each have 2 mono streams on them ( they 're basically stereo capture devices ) . I could create an aggregate device out of the two devices ( assuming their drivers support aggregation in OS X ) and use this new , aggregate device in GarageBand or Logic and now , instead of seeing 2 channels of input , I 'd see 4 channels of input and the devices would function as one , bigger " virtual device " . It works in a similar fashion for their outputs . They all act as independent outputs on one virtual device .
end question
start question
Is system maintenance software required ? If so , what is the best ?
Are there Mac equivalents that monitor startup , configuration and the like ? <URL> , <URL> , <URL> are some options . How necessary are they ? Not very . Any optimization that needs to be done is already built into the Mac OS X . What is the best general purpose package ? Ca n't help you there , I do n't use such utilities .
It 's the folder where iTunes saves the backUps of your iDevice . And it takes so much space because each time you sync a device , previous backUps are not deleted . Deleting the folder will , then , mean losing those backUps . Doing this regularly is advised for saving HD space . Just make sure to make a new backUp afterwards , and that you wo n't need those backUps . You can do that through iTunes too , by : Opening iTunes / Preferences / Devices . A list with all the Devices will be show . Select the one 's backUps you want to delete and click Delete Backup . Note that all of the backUps of that iDevice will be deleted .
<URL> should do the job . CCC ( Carbon Copy Cloner ) creates a bootable backup , and preserves all your files , and in the right hierarchy . You can also have incremental backups ( it only backs up items that have changed since the last backup ) . You can schedule CCC to backup regularly . CCC also has the ability to backup over a network . I also like the Growl notifications . <URL> is another handy little application . We used to use it for backing up before Time Machine came out . It has the ability to do incremental backups , so you wo n't be backing up the whole hard drive ; just the data that 's changed . Unlike CCC , it costs $ 27.95 . Another option would be <URL> or <URL> . Both will have the option to make a perfect backup , invisible files included . Rsync can also backup incrementally , which means it will only backup what has changed . With rsync and cp , you can also schedule it to backup with <URL> or <URL> .
A few months ago my organization made the decision to make docking stations a standard item to be ordered with all Macs . We 've evaluated the Belkin Thunderbolt dock , the Matrox DS1 , the Kwikdock , the LandingZone docks and had previously used Henge docks . The Henge docks proved to be a constant pain for both users and our support team . The connections in the bottom of the dock frequently came loose , meaning the end user would lose USB connectivity , network connectivity , etc even though from their perspective the Mac appeared to be docked correctly . The Kwikdock did n't have the build quality we desired . The Belkin Thunderbolt dock and Matrox DS1 dock are both very similar in that they 're a hub that you connect all of your connections to , then connect to your Mac via a thunderbolt cable . The downsides we found to these two were cost the necessity to order a thunderbolt cable in addition to the dock . Our end users are also much more accustomed to the traditional docks offered by Dell and other PC manufacturers , were you click it into place and go . This is the same reason we did n't pre-order a Zendock . We ended up going with the LandingZone . It offers the traditional docking style that our users are accustomed to , the build quality seems to be very good , it 's much cheaper than the alternatives and can be further reduced in cost by ordering in bulk . It DOES require a separate driver for network connectivity but it 's very lightweight and they seem to be committed to providing updates in a timely fashion . I 've deployed about 25 of the LandingZones so far and aside from two support calls where it had n't been locked completely in place I 've only heard good things from my end users . We have yet to receive our 13 " Retina MBP docks but we do have a tracking number so I 'm confident they 'll arrive soon . Hope that helps !
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
There are commercial programs that specialize in sync ' ing folders between systems . The one I use is Synk Pro , found at <URL> . Synk Pro allows either folder sync or Master - > Slave copying , so that one folder is designated as the primary repository . Synk Pro can also remain running while the computer is on , keeping designated folders in sync . But there potential problems synchronizing home accounts across different machines . The first one that comes to mind is ~ / Library/Preferences , which stores the default setup information for your system : some of the settings may not work properly on different machines . The Mail folders in ~ / Library could easily lead to data loss : if you update Mail on both systems inadvertently , then synchronizing the folders could result in overwriting messages in one folder with different contents . This can be avoided if you only retrieve mail on one system , and copy that Mail setup to the other machine . If you only synchronize user folders , like Documents and Downloads , most of such pitfalls are avoided . There are also companies that provide data file sync through the internet , by copying your files to their servers , and then copying from their servers to the other systems you select , and authorize by password . Two examples of these are Dropbox and www.sugarsync.com . These services can not guarantee synchronization if you have the same file open on two machines , however . There are some programs designed to work with Dropbox , that allow changes made on one computer to automatically show up on another machine ; for example , 1password or TextExpander . But many programs are not so designed : Apple programs like Pages and Numbers will not work this way . You must close the file on all machines before the file can be sync ' ed . And it should have been opened on only one machine at a time . And these services require $ $ per year for large amounts of content . Dropbox provides free accounts for up to 2 GB of data , so you could try their service for free to see if it meets your needs . It has been very reliable for me . SugarSync is designed to sync files through the internet and provide offline backup . It has been working well after some initial problems , when their Mac program was still in beta . Both these services allow you to sync files to Windows based machines also . And both allow retrieving previous file versions from their servers . Note that if a machine has been shutdown , it may take a long time to complete the updates over your internet connection . My desktop remains running even if I am away from my desk .
Crowd-sourced Wi-Fi and cellular Location Services If Location Services is on , your device will periodically send the geo-tagged locations of nearby Wi-Fi hotspots and cell towers in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to augment Apple 's crowd-sourced database of Wi-Fi hotspot and cell tower locations . In addition , if you 're traveling ( for example , in a car ) and Location Services is on , a GPS-enabled iOS device will also periodically send GPS locations and travel speed information in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to be used for building up Apple 's crowd-sourced road traffic database . The crowd-sourced location data gathered by Apple does n't personally identify you . <URL>
I would say there is n't really any default music player on the iPhone . You could say that Apple 's Music-app is the one that opens when you press " Play " on the lock-screen or the " multitasking bar " , but there 's no real advantage in that . To answer your question , no . You are pretty much unable to change any default things in the non-jailbroken version of iOS . With that said , you can do some tweaks having jailbroken your device . If you would like to use Siri to play your Spotify music , there is a jailbreak app for that called <URL> . Other than that , you could use the jailbreak app <URL> . It makes the Spotify-application the one used on the multitasking bar .
What is Steam ? According to them , they are The Ultimate Online Game Platform . What this actually means is that they are a portal for you to buy , play and update games . With certain benefits . But " steam " is just that . They sell games ( more on this later ) , they offer you a community where you can have Friends , Chat with them , unlock achievements , etc. . If you 're a user of an iPhone/Pod/Pad that has <URL> in it , think of Steam as a pseudo <URL> . Why Steam and not normal retailer ? The advantages of Steam are a few , and I could n't list them all because some things may not be better for everybody , but let 's just say that the strength of the platform and what makes it different from buying a boxed game could be summarized in a few bullets ( in no particular order ) : Very easy to buy a game ( and discover new ones ) Instant buy , start downloading , no delivery costs . Automatic updates without having to worry If you buy a game on your Macintosh and one day decide to play it on your Windows computer , provided that the game is supported in that Platform , you can continue your game there , as if nothing has happened . You re-download the game in your Windows machine and voilá . Friends , Achivements , Progress ... Steam as a platform sports game achievements that you unlock by playing . Discounts , sometimes you will get " cheaper " versions of the games or promos that you can take advantage of . More , I 'm sure there are other advantages but think of an AppStore for games with a plus . Can games be played independently ? Yes and no . I do n't believe you can copy that game over another machine ( tho you could probably install steam on that machine and copy the game ... I have n't tried this ) . But you can play offline if you do n't have Internet . Bonus : Is it worth ? If you have a Mac and like gaming , it 's definitely a big plus , as a lot of games get ported and put into the Steam network . If you 're in Windows , I believe the ease of use and " point and click " nature of the service make it worth . And also the fact that you do n't have to pay to use it . Did I mention it 's a free service ? ;) But Does it have Cons ? Some invaluable readers pointed out a few cons , which I will update ( and I encourage everybody to contribute ) : When you start it , it automatically updates , giving you the sensation that the client is hang . Also if your network speed is not optimal , this process can demand a lot of time . If your network connection is not good , downloading three gigabytes of game might not be the best idea , given that you usually ca n't start playing until almost most ( if not all ) the content is downloaded . In order to play offline , you have to log in , and tell steam " I 'm going offline " , which kind of voids the possibility of an unexpected loss of connectivity or forgetting to do it before disconnecting for example . I did n't mention this , but it 's important to note that not all the Windows games are available on Steam and not all work on OS X. Although decent amount ( and growing ) catalog is available , not every title is there . UPDATE : There 's a dedicating <URL> in Stack Exchange for that . Do n't hesitate asking gaming questions there too , those guys may seem like gamers , but they are n't playing at all ;)
From my experience , 3.1.3 is indeed the best version for iPhone 3G , if you do n't want any new or updated app . I 've installed 4.2 on an iPhone 3G and it does become slower , though not so bad . If you put <URL> , you 'll see the 3 outperforming the 4 for most tasks ( other than some native multi-tasking maybe ) . Other than the slightly faster performance , the best iOS for any iDevice is the latest one , like wjlafrance said . Unless it is jailbroken , I ca n't tell what could possibly make iOS 3 slow . On iOS 4 it is only multitasking that can harm the performance AFAIK . Same issue with jailbreaking - gets slow if you install too much stuff running on the background . And an old device will suffer aging impact only on the battery . Hopefully a fresh restore would solve the " sluggish " but I 'm afraid it might not . Anyway you can easily * downgrade without jailbreaking . On 3G , you just * need the <URL> , <URL> and option + click on Restore from iTunes . * It is that simple , but there is more to it and it can become complicated . If you need more details , try <URL> or this another <URL> .
That totally depends on the apps you want to do . Do they need GPS localization ? A microphone ? Front or back cameras ? Hi-res camera ? Besides , you ca n't test an iPad app on the iPhone , so you 'll need an iPad no matter what . Edit : According to the comment , an iPod Touch would be enough for you .
There are no special steps . Install it using the installer just like you did on your old Mac . When prompted for the activation key , select " activate by phone " and input nothing , keep trying and it should provide a number to call . Microsoft ( unlike Adobe ) does not have an automated system for licence deactivation . This has been a point of great angst among Mac users as it requires them to call Microsoft each and every time they move the Office application from one machine to another . I believe the number in the US is : +1 (800) 936-5700 . Your product support number may vary . <URL> on activation and product key information .
No , the compiled code must be submitted via a Mac . One " workaround " is to install OS X into a virtual machine on Windows , but that violates the OS X user agreement . So yes , you 'll need a Mac .
Are there Mac equivalents that monitor startup , configuration and the like ? <URL> , <URL> , <URL> are some options . How necessary are they ? Not very . Any optimization that needs to be done is already built into the Mac OS X . What is the best general purpose package ? Ca n't help you there , I do n't use such utilities .
Easily spoken , you could say ispw files are not complete . They 're missing that so-called signature . It 's like a contract ; it has no value without the signature . Every time you install new firmware on the iPhone , iTunes calls to the Apple servers and ask for that approval signature . For numerous reasons , Apple does n't give out those signatures for older firmware versions . There 's not much you can do . The only thing you can do is downgrading to 8.4.1 and hope one day somebody releases the jailbreak for it . But for now , you 're stucked .
I use the Wikipanion free version on my iPad and there 's a Wikipanion Plus available that supports offline viewing . I 'm happy with Wikipanion on my iPad and iPhone . Hope that helps !
I believe that you 're looking for the info straight from <URL> , which contains all the information that you need to keep your battery as healthy as possible . In any case , as with any other modern battery , avoid excessive heat not only when recharging but also when the device is not in use .
When the user tries to install the update , the app store will alert the user saying something like " you must have iOS5 to install this update . " . The user will still be able to use the current version they they have , though .
Microphones are hooked up to a pre-amp to boost the signal before recording . The internal microphone on the Mac probably has a built-in pre-amp while the external jack does n't . Typically external mikes are connected to a sound or mixing board before hooking up to a computer .
You do n't say what you 'll be using them for . I 'm ( among other things ) a programmer , and for me being able to see a tall vertical area in my text editor is of primary importance . Thus , given 2 widescreen monitors , I 'd set them up vertically , next to each other . I 'm not unique here : when I visited Google , most of the programmers I saw had this layout too . I would think this could help with your neck problem , since it makes the display area closer to a square , and not a really wide rectangle . Alternatively , you could keep them horizontal , and stack one right above the other . Depends on the shape of the things you 're going to be looking at most , I guess !
end question
start question
Do I need to re-index my Volume ?
Open terminal and type : You will be asked for your password , provide it , as this command requires administrator privileges to run . After confirming your Spotlight index will be re-built and your files should appear in the search . ( Depending on the size of your HDD it can take a while ) To turn Spotlight on/off use : To fine tune your Spotlight settings open System Preferences > Spotlight Exclude certain folders from getting indexed :
What you should do is similar in concept to <URL> that you 've quoted . The main difference is that your MBP will have the Restore partition on its drive instead of the USB solution for the MBA . Follow the instructions on Apple 's <URL> : Just hold down Command-R during startup and OS X Recovery springs into action . It lets you choose from common utilities : You can run Disk Utility to check or repair your hard drive , erase your hard drive and reinstall a fresh copy of OS X , or restore your Mac from a Time Machine backup . Since you 've already backed up your data , pick the erase and reinstall option , and you 'll have a clean copy of OS X installed on the MBP before you bring the machine back for servicing/replacement .
The iPhone ( apart from the obvious phone/messaging features ) , will give you an ultra-portable computing device to carry around with you when you are not near your iMac or do n't want to open the Macbook Pro . This will give you the ability to check your emails , browse websites , listen to music , watch podcasts and even record and edit videos . You will also be able to read books and take part in the eco-system of hundreds of thousands of 3rd party applications that available on the Apple App Store . Best of all , because all your devices are from Apple , you benefit from not only knowing how most of these items work and are configured , but the huge benefit of interoperability . You most probably have your music in iTunes already , so you 're music can be synced with your new iPhone . Your web bookmarks are probably already in Safari , so can be synced with Safari on the iPhone .
Macs introduced after 10.7 was released ( <URL> ) support internet recovery : if you start up with a new hard drive , you are shown a gray screen like this and something like the contents of the recovery partition are downloaded over the internet : <URL> If you happen to encounter a situation in which you can not start from the Recovery System , such as your hard drive stopped responding or you installed a new hard drive without OS X installed , new Mac models introduced after public availability of OS X Lion or OS X Mountain Lion , automatically use the OS X Internet Recovery feature if the Recovery System ( Command-R method above ) does n't work . OS X Internet Recovery lets you start your Mac directly from Apple 's Servers . The system runs a quick test of your memory and hard drive to ensure there are no hardware issues . OS X Internet Recovery presents a limited interface at first , with only the ability to select your preferred Wi-Fi network and , if needed , enter the WPA passphrase . Next , OS X Internet Recovery will download and start from a Recovery System image . From there , you are offered all the same utilities and functions described above . You can then install the OS your Mac came with for free or restore the old installation from a Time Machine backup .
Migration Assistant can use a Time Capsule as a Time Machine backup source , without the need for a direct connection . Once you 've installed OS X , use Migration Assistant to restore from a Time Machine backup , then select your Time Capsule .
Here is the answer to your question : Go to System Preferences Select Accessibility Select Mouse &amp; Trackpad Select Trackpad Options Select Enable dragging withoug Drag Lock
This in Terminal will show Notification Center again : You will have to restart your Mac afterwards . Reported to work in El Capitan ( 10.11.1 ) as well .
I have a copy of Leopard that came with the MacBook . However it fails checksums . You can try to repair the disc using <URL> method . Never done it but the author claims he has , and it worked for him . Your mileage may vary . I have an upgrade copy of Snow Leopard on DVD . ( Unsurprisingly ? ) the MacBook wo n't install from it . You seem to have bad luck with physical media . From <URL> ( and Diago below ) , the Snow Leopard upgrade disc contains a full installer , allowing the installation even over a system without any OS whatsoever . If it fails to boot , it could likely be damaged . I have a full copy of Snow Leopard for Mac Mini - I tried to install and it says it does n't work on MacBooks . That is also correct . Minis ( like many of the machines Apple manufacturers ) come with their own specific versions of OS X . The Mac minis , like the MacBook Airs ship with special versions that differ from the ones you purchase through other channels . Therefore , you can not use an installation disc from a MacBook Pro on a MacBook or iMac . I have a new MacBook Air with Lion preinstalled . Apple machines that ship with Lion can not be transferred to other devices . If you purchases Lion through the Mac App Store , you could install it on any Mac ( except those that ship with them of course ) . In all honesty , the best advice I could give you is to book an appointment at one of your local Apple Stores and speak to a Genius . Tell them your situation ( bring in the machine and the Tiger installation disc ) . They 'll either give you a Snow Leopard installation for free or boost you up to Lion . I 'm not sure if they will give you a free USB Stick , but they 'll do something for you . I guarantee that .
This only gives you one more notch below 1 , but it might do as much as you need it to . Use the decrease volume button to lower the volume to 0 . Then , press the Mute button once . This will let sound play , but at a lower volume than 1 . Also , you can change the volume in 1/4 increments with the following shortcuts : ⇧ + ⌃ + volume buttons in Snow Leopard ⇧ + option + volume buttons in Lion or later
Open terminal and type : You will be asked for your password , provide it , as this command requires administrator privileges to run . After confirming your Spotlight index will be re-built and your files should appear in the search . ( Depending on the size of your HDD it can take a while ) To turn Spotlight on/off use : To fine tune your Spotlight settings open System Preferences > Spotlight Exclude certain folders from getting indexed :
Two 27 " displays will ( obviously ) take up quite a bit of room . You 'll probably want to look for a desk that has built-in mounting points for your VESA arms ( or built-in VESA arms ) so you do n't have to hang the displays off the wall . ( If you want to rotate the monitor , Apple 's Thunderbolt displays do n't have any built-in rotation ability , so you 'll need an arm that does that , too . OS X 's Displays preferences are where you 'll go to set the rotation on the display . ) There are several different caddies for your MacBook ( such as the <URL> ) that will keep it out of the way of your displays .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
This is the first I hear about this so-called " counter " . I do n't believe in such and I 'm pretty sure when you restore an iPhone using DFU modus , the iPhone is completely wiped clean . As a matter of facts , I 've jailbroken all my iPhones so far and passed by the Apple Genius bar several times . Once I even forgot to restore the device when asking a Genius for help . And he just smiled at me and said " jailbreak , right ? What 's your favorite app ? " :) So , no . I do n't think there is such a counter and you 're safe with a DFU Full restore .
You can disable the XProtect updates in , and there uncheck the box " Automatically update safe downloads list . " Now you can change the version info in
I have the same model of Macbook which was showing the same issues . After replacing the Harddrive with an SSD I still had the same issue . It ended up being the SATA cable connecting the hard drive to the logic board . Over some time the insulation had started to wear off and the cable was occasionally shorting against the base of the case causing IO errors . Once I replaced the cable these errors stopped happening . A good way of checking this would be to use an external USB to SATA cable and try and boot the laptop from it externally . If the drive functions well when doing this then it is likely the SATA cable that is at fault .
It 's not necessary . For more details than you could possibly want , read <URL> by Amit Singh ( author of <URL> ) .
Make sure the old Apple TV Remote is out of Bluetooth range , then while in front of the Apple TV set top box press a button on the new remote . This should pair the remote to the Apple TV . If not , try pressing Volume Up and Menu simultaneously on both remotes for 2-3 seconds , new and old , then do the aforementioned steps again with the new remote .
Network issues only ever result in the audio cutting out , they ca n't really change the content . Distortion means your speakers get overloaded . Turning down the volume is your only option . The reason your speakers are fine on the Mac is that after the slider in iTunes the sound gets further attenuated by the system volume buttons on your keyboard . If you turn those up far enough you 'll get distortion as well .
Yes it does , but the review times are much faster . I just submitted an update and it was reviewed and live within 5 days ( counting the weekend ) .
The control center works ( swipe up from bottom of screen and slide volume slider as desired ) . In iOS 9 at least , you can also go Settings - > Sounds and under the Ringer and Alerts section , turn off " Change with Buttons " , then use the volume buttons on the side of the phone to adjust the media volume . You can leave this option off to always have media volume control with the hardware buttons if you are OK with the ringer volume being just off or on at a preset level using the silent toggle switch on the side of the phone .
end question
start question
Fastest way to split a video file into two ?
You might also be able to do this using Quicktime X. Open the movie , then choose Edit - > Trim ... Trim away the second part of the movie file and do a save as to get the first part in a separate file . Re-open the original file and trim away the first part , save as to get the second part in a separate file . I 've only been able to try it with a 5 minute long movie , which was quick enough , but I 'm unsure of how quickly it 'll work with a 2 hour movie .
You can use MPEG Stream Clip : <URL> Simply open the file and choose to export it from the file menu in a format of your choosing , selecting the appropriate rotation in the selection box . You can find out the current format of the video by choosing File > Show Stream Info as to match the export to the input settings if required .
A quick look suggests that this feature does not exist in any PDF reader . One responder on this forum [ <URL> ] believes that there are no such readers . Most of the links in this Google search [ <URL> ] are requesting such a feature be implemented in some reader , any reader .
Unfortunately , there is no direct way to force OS X to use battery-power mode ( <URL> , <URL> and <URL> ) . OS X uses <URL> which changes the P-state of the processor depending on the computer 's power status ( AC/battery ) . AFAIK , the only thing you can do is set your AC mode power management settings to the same as battery mode . Using , you can see and set the power settings that your Mac uses for AC and battery scenarios . Below is an example : A brief run-through of the command : : pmset : get settings : displays custom settings for all power sources To equalise your AC power settings with your battery consumption settings , you can use the following command : A brief run-through of the command : : see above : converts entire output to one line : removes output following " A " of " AC Power : " : removes output preceding " : " of " Battery Power " ( example output as of this stage ) : passes the above argument line one by one to Now , the output of looks like this : Note that for similar properties that had different properties ( i.e. , which had on battery and on AC ) , they are now the same . It is advisable to keep a backup of the original AC power settings in case you would like to revert . As follows , you can generate a string that you can use to reset your AC power settings with the following command : The difference between this command and the one above is that with this command , we are taking the value after AC power ( aka original AC power settings ) . To reset your settings to your original settings , take the string generated by the above command and pipe it through to : I would also advise following <URL> to decrease power consumption .
FileVault 1 used to do just this but the current FileVault 2 is whole disk encryption . It is technically possible to use the Logical Volume Manager underpinning FV2 to accomplish this , but it 's rather complicated and not supported by Apple or any GUI System Preferences . You could consider using an encrypted disk image created with DiskUtility . This would give you an optionally mountable disk that is encrypted . It appears on the HDD as a large file ( like most installer . dmg files ) and mounts with a double-click and password . This is similar to what FV1 used to do with a user 's home directory .
You can use or to inspect the file contents directly - it is a binary file . I would start with a perl or Python package rather than reinvent the wheel . <URL> <URL>
I just tried it with a QuickTime movie and was able to run the exported . ppt in PowerPoint as well . But this is probably no guarantee that it will work in all cases given the multitude of video formats , codecs , drivers etc. . So in your case you probably get the best results if you start with a specific video format/codec on the Mac side ( QuickTime and either MPEG4 or H. 264 would be my first choice ) do a test run yourself , maybe involving various target PCs ( if this is a scenario you have to be able to work with ) stick to the setup once you have proven it to work
No - this general behavior was n't changed in iOS 5 as part of the video / music app split .
For broadcasting the video , you can use <URL> . It will allow for live interaction during the broadcast over chat . <URL> .
I found it ! If you select the " big event " in " Events " view , then go to the menu , " Events " - > " Autosplit Selected Events " it will automagically split the one event into the many events .
<URL> is the best tool I 've found for recovering files . It does have some baffling limitations however , like the fact that it ca n't recover . dmg files . It 's a command line program but still very easy to use . And it 's free :) <URL> on their wiki makes it even easier .
If you want an exact copy of the TC drive , the fastest way is to connect the USB drive directly to the TC and use the archiving option in : Other things to consider : Transfering data over wire ( ethernet ) is faster than over Wi-Fi Connecting the USB drive directly to the computer ( than to the TC ) gives better results if you use the Finder to copy data .
In your case , the problem is the file system on the drive as opposed to how it is connected to your Mac . The drive is most likely formatted as FAT32 system . This is a typical partitioning format that is supported by practically all computers ( windows , linux and mac os ) . FAT32 limits file sizes to 4GB and device sizes to 2TB ( or 16 TB for 4 KB sectors ) . For you to be able to store a file greater than 4GB in size , you 'd need to reformat the drive to either ExFAT ( file size is limited to 16EB , or 16 BILLION TB ) or a MacOS partition format ( called HFS plus , file size limited to 8EB , or 8 BILLION TB ) . I 'd recommend the MacOS partition format for it 's reliability , but only if you 're working in a strictly Mac OS environment . HFS plus is NOT supported by Windows . If you need to transfer files between computers of various OSs , I 'd recommend ExFAT . Note : Changing partition formats WILL DELETE ALL DATA ON THE DRIVE , so make sure you back up all the data on the drive before you start . Back up all your files on the USB drive onto a secure location on your Mac . Open Disk Utility by searching it in spot light or opening it from / Applications/Utilities Select your desired drive on the left side . Go to the " Erase " tab . Choose your desired partition format from the drop down menu , and name your drive as you please . Click " erase " Restore the files back to the drive .
If you want to avoid the firewall exceptions , there are options such as <URL> , which has an <URL> and a web client , and is free for the first ten devices you want to manage . The caveat is that you must install an app on the device which you want to access . The iOS app works smoothly over both WiFi and LTE , in my experience .
I ended up going with Snow Leopard because Leopard itself was slow ( SL offers countless improvements in how it is built , for Intel Macs only ) , and Tiger , as reminiscent at it would have been to use it , did n't have Time Machine ( which admittedly was n't a requirement in the original question ) . The reason why I did n't go for Lion is because I would n't be able to have it in it 's best iteration : Mountain Lion is reported as superior in speed ( but not compatible with this MacBook ) . Snow Leopard is running fast and smooth , and personally , I think it 's the best fit for this machine .
I use Hazel with an applescript to keep my filename extensions hidden . Hazel is just a way to make sure that anytime I create a new file , the applescript gets run on it . The applescript is pretty easy -- you can see all three lines of it in the screenshot below . I also like to set the color labels by file type , thus the selection of only PDFs and the red color labels . You can skip both of those if you like . Just to be clear , you do n't need to use Hazel . You could use folder actions or an automator workflow to initiate the applescript on the files you want to change .
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
If the folders are the same name , drag one to the location of the other , and BEFORE releasing the mouse or trackpad , hold down the key . You will be presented with three options , one of which is to Merge .
I finally found the exact combination I needed , and I found it in <URL> . I will expand on the question a bit and spell out the fact that I was already working with mp4 contained video/audio , so MP4 Video ( . m4v ) and AAC Audio ( . m4a ) . I absolutely wanted an as-is version of the audio extracted from the video . First off , it 's pretty easy to install things like ffmpeg , mplayer , things built off them , and similar open source packages nowadays . Between <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and Fink ( does anyone even use fink anymore ? ) , third party software is a snap to install . So , after installing ffmpeg , and having the accessible at the command line , I ran a command like this : ffmpeg : The command . - i videofile.mp4 : The source video file . - vn : Do not record ( do not consider ) video data . - acodec copy : Copy the audio source as-is , here 's where all the magic is . ffmpeg will write the audio data out as various supported codecs , but specifying copy leads a bit-for-bit exact copy of the stream . Coupled with disabling video via - vn leaves you with a lone audio track inside an mp4 container . audiotrack.m4a : The output filename . I ca n't believe something like this was so difficult and hidden for so long . Since I always intend to rip aac audio data out of an mp4 container/video , I wrote a quick little script to do it . Now , I simply invoke and I am left with an audio only version with the same filename , ending in m4a instead . Simple ! For me anyways . No GUIs , lightning fast , this is just one of those things that the command line does better .
I solved this by using <URL> . Select the movie as the source file . Near the upper right of the Handbrake window , there 's an option to select a range of chapters . Tell it to go from 1 to 1 . Name the destination file 1 . mp4 , so that it can be distinguished from the other files that are soon to be created . Start the encoding . Repeat this process for every chapter of the movie , clicking Add to Queue so that the files will be lined up to be created immediately after 1 is finished . Sure enough , now I 've got 18 movie files that together make up an entire film ! To my knowledge , no one has asked this question online before , so I figured I 'd share my answer with the world . Hope it helps someone !
end question
start question
Manage a multilingual iTunes library ?
No . Every field is part of the songs <URL> ( or meta tag ) and only one field can exist at any given time . A song can only have one track name , one genre , one composer , one album title , and so on : Whether you set the name of the song , for example , to English , or some other language , it does n't matter as it would require two distinct fields for one ID3 entry , and that is not supported in the metadata container . This is not a limitation of iTunes , but of the songs container .
If you have been using Photos only since migration you can safely delete it . The purpose of the migratedPhotoLibrary is so you still can use iPhoto with your old pictures ( and perhaps import new ones to iPhoto only , if you have done this , then no , do n't delete it . ) After deleting it you can delete your iPhoto app as well . <URL>
From what I see using Vox , it does not create a library of its own , instead it either access the iTunes Library directly for information . It should be a read-only access , and you have nothing to worry . You should note that it 's not iTunes integration , so it does not work with iTunes Match to provide tracks that are n't downloaded to your Mac yet . If you have further concerns , I suggest you contact the developers of Vox directly .
I would select all the music you want converted , and make a playlist out of them . Next convert the files . Then select all the songs in your new playlist and delete them from your library by pressing Option Delete ( OS X ) or Shift Delete ( Windows ) . Additionally , I hope you are n't converting lossy music to MP3 , as that would produce lesser quality files for no benefit .
iTunes preferences are stored in I presume you access your two libraries by launching iTunes while holding down the Opt key . An alternate method to launch iTunes and swap out pref files at the same time would be to make an Automator or AppleScript app that switches pref files , and makes a link from to one of the libraries , then launches iTunes for you .
It is a tiny bit ugly - but there are formal steps to accomplish exactly what you wish . Home Sharing does n't work so well when both accounts have completely separate libraries - each in the usual home folder - so that 's not a good thing to try . The best workaround is to agree to <URL> . It 's more work to add the same music to both libraries - but you both have totally independent backups , playlists , play counts , ratings and apps . This works really well and you can easily recombine later or split her or your account to another mac or PC any time you choose by taking a copy of the reference files as well as the library organization files .
In short , no . When you turn on iTunes Match on your phone , nothing happens automatically . The key setting is in : Show All Music - if this is turned on , all music that you 've uploaded to iTunes Match appears in the Music app on your iPhone . However , this music is not actually present in your phone 's storage . If Show All Music is turned off , only music that is in your phone 's storage appears in the Music app . Once the Music app is showing your iTunes Match music , there are two ways these tracks will actually be stored on your iPhone : If you just start playing music , it will by default stream the track from Apple 's servers ( if you 're not on a Wifi network , it will only do this if the setting is on ) . When you stream a track , it will be downloaded to your iPhone and subsequently stored . If you tap the download button that appears when you view Albums or Playlists , the associated tracks will begin downloading from Apple 's servers , to be stored on your iPhone . In both cases , you retain control over what actually takes up space on your phone : only the music that you either choose to play or explicitly download . There are two other details worth noting here : I believe that , when space on your iPhone starts to get limited , iTunes Match tracks that have been streamed to your device may be deleted from storage to reclaim space ( the idea being that you can always stream them again ) . I do n't know whether or not tracks that you explicitly chose to download will also be cleaned up in this way . If the settings are on , your phone will automatically download new songs ( or apps , or books ) that you purchase on your other devices . However , your existing purchases will not be downloaded automatically .
How to see iTunes U courses without iTunes iTunes U courses are RSS feeds , so you will need : An RSS reader , either web browser-based , like <URL> ( * ) or <URL> , or standalone , like <URL> . Make sure that in either case it can display H. 264/MPEG -4 videos . ( * ) Google Reader will not be available <URL> . The feed URL , which for the iOS programming course <URL> is : <URL> For example , after subscribing with Google Reader you 'll see a list with links to the course videos : How to obtain the feed URL Neither Standford University nor <URL> publish the feed URL , so you will need iTunes to get it : Open iTunes and look for " Stanford coding together " Select the course and subscribe : Navigate to iTunes U , right click the course and select Copy iTunes U URL :
Under Settings → Users → [ you ] → Login Items → select iTunesHelper , then click the minus sign and log out/into your Mac . No devices will cause iTunes to launch ( that 's the whole purpose of iTunesHelper ) .
iTunes Match , when turned on , actually suppresses the Store link for iTunes Plus in the iTunes app on a Mac or PC . The option to upgrade no longer appears to Match subscribers . There is no reason to upgrade . My personal old-school drm-sullied iTunes songs are now available to me without DRM through Match now that I 've subscribed and synced my library .
Everything in your iPhoto Library is stored in ( note that the extension is hidden by default ) . Simply copy that file to whatever Mac you 'd like to move it to . Just make sure you are running the same version of iPhoto in both cases to minimize incompatibility and error . Apple has an <URL> if you are interested .
The 1st sort column is sorted by when the file was added to the playlist . If you can drag them into the playlist in the order you want ... you are set
You might be interested in one of this choices : my favorite <URL> Features : Create an unlimited number of maps with unlimited landmarks Photos - Import photos from your Photo Album using their own locations . <URL> Then there is the iPhoto app for iPad :)
Seems like the problem only was that I had managed to sort the events " manually " ( View > Sort Events > Manually ) which hid the newly created events in-between my rather large amount of existing events . Sorting by date ( View > Sort Events > By Date + Descending ) shows my new events first in the list as they should .
Right-Click on the file in iTunes , then select " Show in Finder " There you have your Podcast-File . You can copy it on your USB-Drive or wherever you want !
Yes , simply coping your entirely iTunes folder to an other computer will do the trick . This assumes all of your media is consolidated within the iTunes Media and iTunes Music folders . iTunes will assist in copying music to the folder and organizing a library if you would like to ensure all the media is portable when it comes time to transfer . Do not forget to reauthorize the old computer if you are not going to use it regularly in case it crashes and one of your 5 slots is taken up . You can reset things after a lost computer , but it is somewhat time restricted to prevent abuse of that feature .
Where is the iTunes library directory ? What is its filesystem location ? Go to iTunes > Preferences ... Choose the Advanced tab . There you will find the path to your iTunes folder . If I move my library from the laptop and to an external USB-connected drive , will my music and TV shows still play ? Yes , if iTunes knows where to find them . See following question . I 'd like to keep some of my music on the local drive so I can actually listen to it when I 'm out and do n't have the external drive with me . Is there a way to do that ? Under the Advanced tab in the preferences , make sure Keep iTunes Media folder organized is checked . Choose Change ... next to iTunes Media folder location to choose a new location on your external drive . Then click OK . Now go to File > Library > Organize Library , select Consolidate files and click OK . iTunes will now copy your files to your external hard drive . The files on your internal drive will be retained . Go to your original iTunes Media folder on your internal drive and drag it to the Trash . Do not empty the trash before making sure that you can quit and relaunch iTunes and play songs without any trouble . Now move any music files you want to be on your internal drive to a folder on your internal drive . When you move these files , iTunes will not be able to find them , as iTunes will look for them in the folder on your external drive . This will result in dead listings with exclamation marks if you try to play them . See this answer to remove dead listings : <URL> . Now go to iTunes > Preferences ... and to the Advanced tab again . Uncheck Copy files to iTunes Media folder when adding to library . Choose File > Add to library ... and select the media files that you moved to your internal drive . Cheers . For the record , it is also possible to have more than one iTunes library and choose which one to load when starting iTunes . The above solution allows you to have one library with files at different locations .
Your Home-sharing password is your Apple ID password . It should exist in your keychain : Type Keychain Access in Spotlight . It should appear in the drop down menu . Open it . Select your Login Keychain Type in iTunes Store Password in the search bar of Keychain access . Double click it and tick " Show Password " If this appears : Type in your user account password and click allow . You should then see your Apple ID password in plaintext .
I think you should check out instapaper which is free . It helps you do what you want to do without dealing with bookmarks . Here ' is the description from their web site : " Save long web pages to read later , when you have time , on your computer , iPhone , iPad , or Kindle . " I use it so I can save something on my phone and read it later from another device .
You are right to leave media in the original location to help save space . Beyond this setting , take a look at your Library 's settings . Manage Storage Locations Final Cut Pro is likely <URL> of your original media . By default , these temporary files are stored within your Final Cut Pro libraries . You can change the location of temporary files , see <URL> . When you finish working on a project , ask Final Cut Pro to delete all associated runtime created files : Final Cut Pro.app > File ( menu ) > Delete Generated Library Files ... <URL> This will dramatically reduce the file size of your library .
end question
start question
How can I get back a system file after deleting it from my Mac ?
If you do n't mind or are sure your Recovery HD is patched to match the OS on your main system , you can snag a file and see if it works without needing to do a full reinstall of the OS and without needing a restart or an internet connection / saved installer . Use the Recovery partition Many1 system files are also included on the Recovery partition and can be copied over . Mount the Recovery HD Mount the BaseSystem.dmg Copy the file This process can be combined into a single-line command if you have to run it frequently ... Even if you have deleted the binary ( which could happen ) , there is , and several other commands that can stand in for . Reinstall OS X If you 've got the ability to reinstall OS X through the Recovery HD , Internet Recovery or an OS X install media then reinstalling OS X will ' repair ' your install and copy any missing/broken system files back to your system . I recommend that you do a permissions repair using Disk Utility after copying a file manually and then rebooting . If the fix works , now would be an excellent time for another backup snapshot . 1 Not all system files are on the Recovery HD , but many are . If the copying command does n't work , check that the file exists on the Recovery HD .
You can use the <URL> utility1 which adds an option to " print " , from Preview or any other app , to generate a second pdf file with the pages arranged appropriately to print and bind as a booklet . When printing the resulting pdf booklet , remember to select " Two-Sided : Short-Edge binding " in the " Layout " options of the print dialog . 1 . No longer free , $ 9.99 on the App Store as of 09/2015 .
Unless you excluded the OS files from the backup , Time Machine should 've backed that up along with everything else ; but in order to recover the entire OS ( rather than just your user files ) , you have to do the restore differently : use the restore tool in <URL> ( reachable by starting the Mac with Command and R held down ) . However , there are a couple of warnings I should give about this route : I have n't tested it , but I think this form of restore will wipe out everything currently on the disk , replacing it with the earlier backup snapshot . Have you done anything important since the backup ? If so , you should back that up before going this route . If you 'd excluded any files/folders from the backup , they 'll be missing from the restore as well . It 's fairly common to exclude the OS itself from backups , so if you 'd done that this form of restore will not give you a bootable system . Because of the above , I 'd be inclined to stick with the restore you have , and simply reinstall the update . BTW , the question seems to contain a bit of a misunderstanding about how OS updates and backups work . Time Machine ( and other backup systems ) back up files and folders . An OS update is n't a file or folder that can be backed up as an item ; instead , it 's a bunch of changes to various system files and folders . If those files and folders are being backed up , the updated versions will be backed up ; if not , they wo n't be . Similarly , you ca n't restore a system update , you can only restore the changed versions of the various system files ( and since you do n't know precisely which ones were changed , that pretty much means restoring all of the system files and folders ) .
Backup keychain before trying anything . Listing root certificates : Just look in a dump for a names or SHA-1 hash values of certificates that you want to get rid of and write them down . Now you can delete that root certificates using command . Usage : delete-certificate [ - c name ] [ - Z hash ] [ - t ] [ keychain ... ] string found in its common name , or by its SHA-1 hash . If no keychains are specified to search , the default search list is used . For example you can delete chinese root certificates using this command :
A SuperDuper clone will be easy and will move your exact setup to the SSD . Put the new SSD in an external USB drive , format the SSD in Disk Utility , and clone the boot drive onto it . You do n't need to purchase SuperDuper as the Erase then Copy option works in the unregistered version . If your current boot drive data takes up more space than the SSD can hold then you need to delete files to slim it down or use a custom script in SuperDuper to exclude what you do n't want transferred . After the clone is successful boot the computer with option held down and make sure you can boot from it . If that works shut it down and swap the drives .
You want to remove " write permission " from the file , so it can not be written to . If you block MobileMe from writing to it , you will also be blocking the application from writing to it , which could cause problems . Via the command line : From the Finder , do CMD+I ( Get Info ) , and under " Sharing &amp; Permissions " at the bottom , set it to read only . If you need to write to the file ( perhaps for the application to work properly ) , you can temporarily make it write-able , or approach this with a different solution . For example , you could use DropBox , link the file to DropBox from all your Snow Leopard computers , and just not link the file on the Lion computer .
If you do n't mind or are sure your Recovery HD is patched to match the OS on your main system , you can snag a file and see if it works without needing to do a full reinstall of the OS and without needing a restart or an internet connection / saved installer . Use the Recovery partition Many1 system files are also included on the Recovery partition and can be copied over . Mount the Recovery HD Mount the BaseSystem.dmg Copy the file This process can be combined into a single-line command if you have to run it frequently ... Even if you have deleted the binary ( which could happen ) , there is , and several other commands that can stand in for . Reinstall OS X If you 've got the ability to reinstall OS X through the Recovery HD , Internet Recovery or an OS X install media then reinstalling OS X will ' repair ' your install and copy any missing/broken system files back to your system . I recommend that you do a permissions repair using Disk Utility after copying a file manually and then rebooting . If the fix works , now would be an excellent time for another backup snapshot . 1 Not all system files are on the Recovery HD , but many are . If the copying command does n't work , check that the file exists on the Recovery HD .
If you 're OK with recording your mic audio and system audio pre-mixed , you could download the free utilities <URL> and <URL> . Soundflower appears as both an input and output device , and echoes whatever it hears when you send it output to its input . This means that you can set your system output to Soundflower , as well as use LineIn to echo audio from your microphone to Soundflower , and use Soundflower as the audio input to your Quicktime recording . There is one disadvantage to doing this though : because of latency , you do n't want to hear yourself on a short delay as you 're talking , which means that since you 're piping both your computer 's audio and your own audio into the same Soundflower device , you 're not going to want to monitor it . Which , in turn , means you wo n't be able to hear the sounds your computer 's making ( but they will be recorded ) . If you do n't want them premixed , you can use the same setup minus the LineIn to record system audio on the QuickTime screen recording , and use a separate app like Audacity to record the audio from your microphone . You 'll have to start the recordings separately and align them by hand in iMovie or whatever you 're using to edit . If you 're doing this and if you want to hear your system audio , open up SoundflowerBed and from the menu bar drop down select the audio device you want to send the Soundflower audio to .
Search by Kind One of the most useful ways to narrow down a search is by using the keyword . This allows you to restrict your list of results to a certain file format . For instance , if you type , Spotlight will pull up only PDF files containing the words " time " and " machine " . You can also limit your search to e-mail messages , music files , System Preferences , applications , and more . While the original Spotlight recognized only a limited number of file types , the Leopard version can look for files created by specific applications , as well as certain file formats . Searching for or will find files in one of those formats , and searching for or will show only documents created in one of those programs . For a list of useful keywords , see " My Kind of Keyword . " But remember , for the keywords to work , you must have the appropriate categories enabled in Spotlight 's preferences . you can get more info <URL> or <URL> .
Yes ! When you open the App Store 's Updates tab , you 'll see a special dialog allowing you to accept the apps such as iPhoto that were bundled with your computer . If you accept them and enter your account info , the licenses will be automatically associated with your account . In the future you 'll be able to receive updates exactly as if you had purchased the apps . ( The details probably depend on which computer you have and when you purchased it . But if your computer is a relatively recent model then you probably will have access to these apps . If you want more details you may need to contact Apple . )
These steps assume that you already have purchased OS X 10.9 through the Mac App Store . Open the Mac App Store Press the Alt Key and hold it during the following steps Click at the purchased tab Scroll to OS X Mavericks Click at the Download button If you already have OS X Mavericks installed , you will be asked if you want to continue Click continue Now , you can release the Alt Key To get the dmg file : 1 . Go to the downloaded install application in the applications folder 2 . Control + click on the installer , and choose Show Package Contents , and choose Show Package Contents . 3 . Navigate to 4 . The file you are looking for is called If you need a file , you have to <URL>
Ok , this is based on your comment about having two users . I have Mountain Lion with two users and tried a reboot here . On the login screen ( where you normally click the user to enter the password ) , it seems you can press " Alt + I " ( in your case ) to get the password prompt for the user that has a name starting with " I " ( in my case either Alt + M or Alt + S ) . After pressing Enter , the field for the password opens , so you could type " password " and get to the desktop . I do n't know about File-Vault , or what it would look like , but if you know how to get to the User-Login screen without seeing it , the above will get you logged in and that may display the 2nd monitor . ( Regarding your other comment about it being hard to put the drive into a Mac-Mini , you do n't need to put it " into " the Mac . A cheap USB case will let you connect the drive to any computer or Mac via the USB port . )
I updated my answer because all of it was wrong : You will want to use an applescript for your preference setups . Here is the code for some of them and screenshots of the actual plist so you get an idea of the options possible . IF this does not apply straight away , you might need to restart the computer . Do n't forget to save applescript as an Application . NOT script Trackpad/Mouse In here , it varies . It is either for mouse , for bluetooth mouse , and for trackpad The example above changes right click to be left click as well Keyboard Unfortunately , I could not find a preference for keyboard . I will keep on searching though . Dock This was just an example . Switch autohide with whatever option and YES with value or boolean . Booleans are YES and NO ( unlike in scripts " true " " false " ) I put a picture on the end so you can see all the possible options for all the options . Disable Dashboard I also could not find how to . Though it is presumably in Dock options : Mouse : Bluetooth Mouse
Welcome , Martijn . I always recommend Apple 's videos : <URL> For now I would also recommend you not worry about terminal/UNIX . Learn to use the Mac OS using the GUI at first , getting used to how it behaves and in which ways it might be different from the Windows operating systems you are used to . Good luck ! EDIT : Also , it does n't really matter where things " should " go on a Mac . You can put applications on the desktop , documents in Applications , etc , etc. . Although I do n't recommend that . There is a Documents folder for documents and an Applications folder for apps . Treat the Library and System folders with care ( IE -- do not go into them or manipulate them until/unless you know what they are , what 's inside and what the effect of your actions will be ) and you will be fine . Backups are also your best friend .
Prerequisites : -- admin account &amp; password -- AFP-share &amp; server IP-address Boot the Computer to Recovery Mode . Open Terminal in the Utilities menu At the prompt enter : Create a sub-directory in Volumes as a mount point for your time machine share : Enter Enter . pwd should show / Volumes/TimeMachine Mount the network share with your admin loginname &amp; password : If your password contains wonky characters like :@ \ / use <URL> to <URL> them Enter : . Note the exact name of your sparsebundle . Enter : . You may enter the first letters of the sparsebundle name and then hit TAB . Hitting tab should auto-complete the Time Machine sparsebundle name . It may not look the same as above as it escapes spaces and special characters . After auto-completing the name , hit return . If you return to the prompt the sparsebundle has been opened . Enter and ⏎ and quit Terminal . Example steps 3-11 : Select and click Continue . After a search it should show you the Time Machine Backups directory as a volume that contains your backup . Select that ( in my example ' Time Machine Backup ' ) and click Continue . In the next screen you will see all the backups that you can restore from listed by time and date . Select the backup you want to restore and continue and finally choose your destination disk :
If you are virtualizing a version of Windows , I would recommend you do use anti-virus software . Although Windows is running in a VM , it still is Windows and is vulnerable to viruses . A good choice of anti-virus software for Windows is <URL> which is free from Microsoft . ( Note that : " Your PC must run genuine Windows to install Microsoft Security Essentials . " ) If you are virtualizing a Linux distro , there is <URL> , so I would recommend anti-virus as well . There are several listed on <URL> , including <URL> ( Free ) and <URL> ( Free ) .
This <URL> . This is on a Early 2010 macbook pro , and OP on the linked thread tied the cause to the " require password after 5 minutes " setting in Security and Privacy . OP solved this issue by switching to " require password immediately " Have you done all updates up to 10.7.5 ?
In order to uninstall iTunes , you need to delete ( drag to the Trash ) a lot of items : The application 's icon . ( a lot of files ) and drag them to the Trash . Look in / Library / folder for an iTunes folder and if you find one drag it to the Trash . Look in / Home/Library / folder for an iTunes folder and drag it to the Trash . Last , in / Home/Library/Preferences / ByHost / folder look for two files with names com.apple.nnnnnnn.plist and drag them to the Trash . Open Activity Monitor ( Utilities folder ) and in the process list look for iTunesHelper . Select it , then click on Quit Process icon . Quit or Force Quit the process . Now open the Accounts preference pane , click on Login Items tab , look for the iTunesHelper entry and select it , then click the button and remove it from the list . Empty the Trash . This should fully remove iTunes and its associated files/folders . You can find all the information <URL> . But , there is no harm in deleting iTunes , except other iLife apps ( iMovie , iPhoto , ... ) wo n't be able to get music out of the iTunes library for compiling their things ( movies , slideshows , ... ) So I 'm seriously wondering why you want to delete iTunes at all . My advice is to leave it as it is and just ignore it . You wo n't do any harm by it if you just leave iTunes there .
The App Store found in iTunes is only for iPhone/iPod/iPad apps . Mac apps can be found on the <URL> . Angry Birds is available for Mac for <URL> . You can also play for free online at <URL> . Note that iPhone and iPad apps are not linked to desktop Mac apps , so when you buy an app for an iPhone or iPad , it does not come with a Mac version and there is no guarantee that a Mac version is even available . Sometimes apps are available on both the iOS ( iPhone/iPad ) App Store and the separate Mac App Store , as is the case for Angry Birds .
OS X includes a command line tool called . See <URL> for all the details . You can call using the Terminal.app and the command : To combine it again , have the receiver store all parts in a dedicated folder , open Terminal there and run ( This assumes that you used the default output names when running . )
end question
start question
How can I mount a remote SSH folder on Mac ?
<URL> can do this . Another choice would be <URL> but I think Transmit is the better option ( I own both and am affiliated with neither ) . There are demos of both programs available , so you can try both . Note that Transmit is sold both through the Mac App Store and directly the developer ( Panic ) . You would be better off buying it from Panic directly because of the impending sandboxing rules for the Mac App Store .
The easiest way to do this is a program called " <URL> " . You can take iSight photo 's by typing the command imagesnap into terminal . Just incorporate imagesnap commands into a cron job or workflow of your command . ImageSnap is also available thru homebrew :
From : <URL> offers these examples : The TCP wrapper program in Mac OS X is :
This is quoted directly from the Speech Recognition Settings preferences : Listen only while key is pressed : With Speakable Items turned on , you can also select this method by speaking the command " Turn on push-to-talk . " Listen continuously with keyword : Use the " Keyword is " pop-up menu to change when you need to speak the keyword . Use the Keyword field to specify what the keyword is .
Yes - you will want to start with the <URL> source code or compiled installer that Apple publishes and then pick whatever device you like that integrates to this infrastructure . Here is Apple 's starting point and a few more links that may help you in your search for a biometric authentication solution : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
You ca n't do this in Lion . <URL> if you want to be able to do this .
There is no command line access for the Microsoft Remote Desktop Client . But the free and most excellent <URL> does handle links which would let you call it from a launcher of your choice or even via on the command line . The <URL> lays out how you can use URL encoded parameters to open full-configured RDP sessions . rdp : / / URL syntax CoRD handles rdp : / / URLs , which you can use from many places inside OS X. Unfortunately , there is no way to extend Finder 's " Connect to Server " dialog , which supports launching VNC URLs , so we ca n't launch CoRD from there . If Apple changes this ( or if anybody is aware of a way to extend it ) we would love to hear about it . If you want to use urls with existing saved servers , you can ( as of 0.5.3 ) ! Just use the label in place of a hostname : New Servers From a shell ( using Terminal ) : Additional parameters can be used to start a fully-configured session via the URL : The following parameters can be set for the session via a query string ( as of 0.5.2 ) : Example Note : When using ampersands ( &amp; ) from the command line , they have to be escaped with a backslash ( ) . Colons ( :) can be used in place of ampersands for the same effect , without needing to be escaped . Passwords with any special characters in them , @ , : , &amp; , etc need to be encoded according to the <URL> Command Line Use CoRD supports the following command line options : - host - port - u - d - p - a [ 8 | 16 | 24 | 32 ] set screen depth - width set screen resolution width - height set screen resolution height Example Caveats Launching CoRD from the command line this way causes a fresh instance of CoRD to be opened . One symptom of this is multiple Dock icons . This overrides or decreases the effectiveness of many of CoRD strong points , including unified sessions , etc. . For that reason , we recommend using the open command , and rdp : / / URLs to launch sessions .
I would recommend the following setup ( which is what I currently use ) : <URL> Use Plex as your remote-control-friendly home theatre hub . I find Plex to be much easier to set up than <URL> , but where I think Plex really shines is in how easy it is to share your mini 's media with other devices . On your mini you install both the Plex Media Server and Plex Media Center apps . If you want to stream to additional Macs or PCs , you can install just the Media Center on those . On your iOS devices , you can install <URL> to stream your mini 's media to the device . Plex Mobile can also be used as a remote control for Plex . You can add your iTunes Media folders to Plex to access your iTunes songs and videos , however neither Plex nor XBMC can play DRM videos purchased from iTunes . <URL> Hulu Desktop is a remote-control-friendly app for browsing and watching Hulu videos . Best of all , you can launch Hulu Desktop directly from Plex . <URL> HippoRemote is a remote control app with better integration with various media players than Mobile Mouse ( formerly Air Mouse ) and Plex Mobile . Plex Mobile only works with Plex , Mobile Mouse works with most things except Plex . HippoRemote works with Plex , Hulu Desktop , and just about everything else , and it even works with the Netflix player . HippoRemote also has much smoother mouse tracking than Mobile Mouse . <URL> The Apple Remote is certainly easier to just pick up and use than using than any remote app , so it can be handy to have it close by for quickly navigating Plex and Hulu Desktop on a whim . <URL> I actually do n't have one of these yet , but I know several people that love Logitech 's Harmony remotes . If want a remote that will also control your TV and receiver , these would definitely be worth checking out .
First off , it 's important to note that Apple 's Remote Desktop is not Microsoft 's Remote Desktop , and the two are not interchangeable . That said , you can still use various VNC products to connect from the Windows machine to the Mac . From there , it 's standard networking . If you want to leave the Mac Mini at home , you 'll need to make sure that you can access the required ports , whether by port forwarding , or by an SSH tunnel/VPN allowing you to connect to your home network . If you bring the Mac Mini with you , then you can easily create an ad hoc Wi-Fi network to connect them both too , in which case they will be on the same network , and you can connect that way . ( You may need a monitor and keyboard attached to the Mac Mini at some point to configure this . ) Additionally , the Mac can automatically make any standard Ethernet cable into a crossover cable , such that an Ethernet cable connecting your Mac to your PC will create a network connection for the two machines , which , again , you can use as a standard network to connect from one to the other . The network can be WiFi , direct point to point ethernet , point to point thunderbolt , point to point firewire or over a wired switched network of any of the above carriers .
Note that there are usually two ways of installing applications on Mac OS X : A simple and common way is to send the user an application bundle . The user can copy it to whichever directory ( s ) he feels like it . Typically , applications are copied/moved to the / Applications directory and can be moved around the filesystem ( or to other filesystems ) . Another way is to provide an installer . Installers are helpful in case there 's need for pre - / post-flight scripts or specific directories . So , answering your questions : In Mac/Unix since there is no control panel , I could be installing same dmg again and again . I would never get repair option ? Although there is something similar to Control Panel , namely System Preferences.app , there is no stock application to manage applications ( list , install , remove ) . Since most users install applications to the / Applications directory , listing applications is done via inspecting the directory , installing applications is done via copying/moving application bundles to that directory , and removing applications is done via removing application bundles from that directory . Yes , it is possible for a user to install the same application repeatedly -- but I ca n't really imagine a use case for that . Maybe you 're asking this because of a ' repair option ' ? What would that do ? If you 're considering the case where an application bundle gets corrupted by some reason then it could be just a matter of copying the application bundle again . Why are Volume and mount required ? . Is n't the installation on unix like copying files to a target system ? . dmg volumes are not required to install applications . A developer/distributor can ship an application bundle in a . zip file , or a . tar file , or a compressed . tar file . Many developers prefer to ship applications via a . dmg volume because it is possible to customise the appearance of the volume when it is mounted -- custom background , custom icons , custom icon sizes , or a link to the / Applications directory to make it easier for the user to copy the application bundle to that location .
Yes , Disk Utility can do this . Use then select your file . In the dialog that follows , select . Disk Utility will insist on saving the new ISO as a file , but it is really an ISO . You can rename it to in the Finder , if you like . At <URL> there are screen shots that walk through this process .
will do it in mac , this will open X11 on your mac when you start an x application in your ssh session to your server . the ssh client is native to mac ( because it is BSD based ) and can be started from the terminal If you are managing windows servers RDP for mac is excellent as well .
I would say that the only damage caused by a cigarette to the aluminum itself would be cosmetic . Clearly , the pebbled surface will trap nicotine and ash on the Aluminum . I suspect that Apple <URL> their unibody parts - and if so , that creates a hard , durable layer of aluminum oxide that protects the metal from scratches , stains , and further oxidation I also expect that action would drive most neat freaks up the proverbial wall , but from a chemical and heat aspect - a single lit cigarette does n't have enough heat to do any damage . It would slightly warm up a small area of the case but do no harm to the insides . Also , I 've seen solid aluminum ashtrays in use for tens of years in harsh environments with no real pitting or permanent damage to them . An internet search for " milled aluminum ashtray " or " milled aluminum engine block " will show that aluminum ( and aluminum alloys ) can stand up to substantial heat in diverse settings . I would be more concerned at the smoke , tar , nicotine getting inside the display and the Mac , corroding the circuit boards , covering contacts in ports and clogging the blowers over time . Tacky , messy , provoke a reaction in others ? - yes Damage the aluminum surface ? - not so much
As of writing there is no software that natively supports working with FileVault 2 encrypted drives within Windows . There are ways to access the content of a FileVault 2 encrypted volume on other platforms including Windows ( for example <URL> ) , assuming you have the passkey and sufficient patience , but none that allow an encrypted volume to be used as a regular drive on Windows . At the moment , to the best of my knowledge , there is n't even any software that allows Windows to natively understand drives that use unencrypted CoreStorage volumes .
According to <URL> , . daa is an extension related to the PowerIso application . <URL> suggests an open source application - <URL> . The app page states : DAA Converter is a free utility for converting DAA &amp; GBI disk images to ISO format so they can be accessed on your Mac . DAA Converter is a native GUI application which wraps the command-line tool , DAA2ISO/GBI2ISO , by Luigi Auriemma . It runs on Mac OS X 10.3 Panther or later . I do n't have any . daa files to test with , so I ca n't verify that this utility works . However , it 's a GPL freeware app , so it would n't hurt to give it a shot .
This is n't exactly true . They can see the sites you visit but not what the content is if you 're using HTTPS . This means that they can see you 're checking your balance but not what your balance is . This also applies to company network traffic providing they 're not doing MITM which they ca n't do without inserting their own certificate on your computer . I suggest checking the certificates installed on your machine in Keychain Access to see if there 's a certificate installed . You can disable these to disable the relevant services from being accessed through the methods detailed in the information shown by clicking on each service . Disabling these wo n't prevent against third-party software installed on the machine providing similar functionality . Any third-party software could provide functionality such as remote access . I 'm unfamiliar with this specific software but it may be a good idea to research exactly what specific software installed on your machine can do . You can re-enable the firewall , however be careful that this does not block any legitimate traffic that may be required by your work network .
I would recommend <URL> - It 's a great terminal app and has this option to bind Left/Right option to meta ( or esc + sequence ) . Home and End work also as expected .
I think in OS X you should use for " cron jobs " . But otherwise your task should be easy to do with a cronjob This should run everyday at 23:55 Update You should specify the output location of WGET with
In System Prefereces > Network set Ethernet above Wifi . That should do the trick .
I Just found <URL> with a google . Not used it but it says it can " sync your home and work computers -- even if they 're not connected -- by syncing them both with an external hard drive serving as a " shuttle " for your data . "
end question
start question
AppleScript to create spacing format like " S P A C I N G " ?
AppleScript to Expand Text The following AppleScript snippet adds a space between each character of a string . Copy and paste this code in Applications > Utilities > Script Editor to try it out : Automator Service Using this script , you can use Applications > Automator to create your context menu service . <URL> <URL> Launch Automator.app Create a new workflow , select Service Add a Run AppleScript action Copy and paste in the script : Select Output replaces selected text Save and test your new service
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
Only one window can be frontmost , at a time , however the following AppleScript code will unhide and un-minimize all windows .
Search for in Lion or later ( or in Snow Leopard and earlier versions of Mac OS ) in Spotlight ( press ⌘ and Space ) . The program is in / Applications/Utilities and is the tool to see the connected USB devices and other hardware details . It is quite simliar to on Windows . Alternatively you can access it via the Apple Menu - > - > - > The System Information can save system profiler information to a file , so you could review an older snapshot to see what was connected once , but the Mac OS does n't record all the devices connected - just the ones actually connected when you run the tool and it scans the current items on the device tree .
To use this ( or any ) script in a program like Apple Mail , you could create a service in Automator . Launch the Automator program . When it says Choose a type for your document , select Service and click Choose In the top dialog , select Service receives no input in Mail.app ( or , the name of your program , or any application if that 's what you want ) . You will insert one action : From the Utilities group , double-click Run AppleScript . Select the text that says and paste in the script you want to run . In your case , the script you want to paste is Once you have done that , go to the File menu and click Save . Give the service a name you will remember , like " Add Recipients to Group " . Then when you are in Mail , you can select a message or messages and go to the Mail menu in the menu bar , then the Services menu in the Mail menu , and select the service Add Recipients to Group .
I did n't enjoy Calibre . But then I realised that it comes with a bunch of command line utilities , and that made things easier for me . Imagine you have a bunch of epub files . That 's the Linux command line to convert them all to mobi using the calibre tool . Except I think the command line toold have changed name in the newest release . Here 's a website , from the Calibre pages , that claims to by a guide to converting HTML to e-book formats , including mobi . <URL> This page seems most important for your question , it has nice screen shots for the settings used . <URL>
You can do it from the substitutions list in System Prefs > Keyboard > Text , as in the example below . The brackets are there in the example purely to make it file to the top [ otherwise it gets mixed in with all my personal ones &amp; I 'd have to blur them all out ] Just hit the + button at the bottom , type to enter your trigger , then double click in the result field &amp; type your desired output string . If you copy/paste into the output string , you can include carriage returns , for a full postal address etc , but you ca n't insert them manually . Once setup , as soon as you hit the spacebar after a trigger keyword , it will auto-replace . Toggling ' correct spelling automatically ' will change whether it suggests it to you before you 've finished typing or not - as soon as it 's recognised the correct replacement , space will trigger it , if ' auto ' is on . To avoid triggers which would otherwise be possibly confusing I always use ncsomething , historically because my originals used to be stored on NoteCards , but also now because I know of no word in English that starts with nc . So ncemail generates my email address , ncmobile for my phone number etc etc. . . I 've found over the years that using a distinct word is easier to remember than a very short abbreviation , unless it 's one you use a lot . As a bonus , you can also use it for spelling mistakes that are n't usually picked up by the normal spell-checker ... For example I frequently type pice instead of piece ; for some reason spellcheck never picks that up so now it 's in my substitutions list . iCould is also one that gets past the checker , so I have one to fix that too , back to iCloud Any changes you make to the substitutions list are ' live ' immediately , you do n't even need to close the window .
Selecting " MS-DOS ( FAT ) " will automatically format as FAT16 or FAT32 depending on the target 's size .
If you can bring the image into Disk Utility , use the convert option . Choose CD/DVD master , it will save as a . cdo . Rename to . iso .
<URL> ( previously known as KeyRemap4MacBook ) Save a file like this as <URL> : Note that the field uses <URL> so , for example , any spaces in the path or filename should be encoded with . Alfred 2 If you have the Powerpack for Alfred 2 , you can create a workflow like this : Hotkeys have a short delay by default , but you can reduce it by changing the trigger behavior : Other applications that support assigning shortcuts to opening applications <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Automator services There has been a bug since 10.7 where the keyboard shortcuts for Automator services do n't always work until you hover over the services menu from the menu bar . There is also a relatively long delay before services are run , and the keyboard shortcuts for services do n't work when the frontmost application does n't have a services menu .
AppleScript to Expand Text The following AppleScript snippet adds a space between each character of a string . Copy and paste this code in Applications > Utilities > Script Editor to try it out : Automator Service Using this script , you can use Applications > Automator to create your context menu service . <URL> <URL> Launch Automator.app Create a new workflow , select Service Add a Run AppleScript action Copy and paste in the script : Select Output replaces selected text Save and test your new service
Try <URL> . It lets you trigger various events , including launching scripts , based on various system events , including what networks you 're connected to . I 'm not 100 % sure if it will read any network interfaces , or just the default ones , but it 's free and probably worth a look .
Either you have on your library same album and different artists or , most likely , you 're creating some weird rules that generate that behavior , like <URL> . If that 's the case , seems like you 'd have to change to in any rule that uses the plus sign . Granted , it is inconsistent behavior in this second case and it might get fixed in the future . And , who knows , there might be few other little bugs like this as well .
There is no built in concept of a menu in the dialogs-alerts within the AppleScript language . The closest you could do would be to name some dummy files ( in a temporary folder ) with the appropriate action and have the user choose the file labeled with the action you wanted to perform . A horrendous " solution " to a problem that needs a cocoa menu - whether you make it in Xcode or someone else does - Xcode/IB is the tool that creates a menu . MacRuby is a nice way to script an app that needs a more full featured UI than AppleScript . You do n't need Xcode/IB to ruby up an app from pure script . You could create a NIB using Interface Builder and script it all using AppleScript , but the nib defines the menu itself - not AppleScript ( even if AppleScript can populate or delete the menu items at run time ) .
I 've seen reference to various iTunes Data Anonymizer applications . This should be a reasonably comprehensive list of where you should and should n't be worried . DRM Encumbered Files ( protected AAC media ) do not carry direct personal information such as your name . They do of course have personal information to the extent necessary to examine and validate your license , but this is information that should only be able to be understood by Apple . So called " iTunes Plus " unprotected MP3 files do contain your personal information . A cursory search led me to <URL> . Note that I am not vouching for this software . Your mileage may vary . Make a backup of any files you have before running them through this , or any other modification software . Files encoded via the CD Ripper does not tag data into the encoded files , no matter what format or quality you choose . Nor will arbitrary media files you choose to import into iTunes . Did I miss a means in which data may become " available " into iTunes ?
With Mavericks and later , you can do this using AppleScript 's ' display notification ' : That 's it -- literally that simple ! No 3rd-party libraries or apps required and is completely portable for use on other systems . 10.9 notification on the top , 10.10 DP in the middle , 10.10 on the bottom . AppleScript can be run from the shell using / usr/bin/osascript : You can also customise the alert further by adding ... a subtitle Append ' subtitle ' followed by the string or variable containing the subtitle . The above example produces the following notification : sound Append ' sound name ' followed by the name of a sound that will be played along with the notification . Valid sound names are the names of sounds located in ... Posting notifications can be wrapped as a command-line script . The following code can be run in Terminal and will add a script to / usr/local/bin ( must exist , add to $ PATH ) called . This is the script that the above will add to notify . Now to display a notification :
If you save the Apple Script as an application , then go to System Preferences - > Users - > Login Items , you can add the application there , and it will run on login .
I installed a third party utility to remap these keys on my MacBook Pro running OS X 10.8 . Here are the steps I used : ( 1 ) <URL> and install KeyRemap4MacBook.app ( 2 ) Edit ( or create ) the following file in a text editor : ... so that its content is : ( 3 ) Select " Preferences " from the little KeyRemap4MacBook icon in the OS X MenuBar at the top of the screen . ( 4 ) In KeyRemap4MacBook 's " Change Key " tab , tick " JKLI to Arrow Keys " . ( if this option does n't appear , you may need to click the " ReloadXML " button ) You should now be able to use the Function key with J | K | L | I to control the cursor , in addition to the Arrow keys .
<URL> creates " pseudo-video " devices for lots of different things , so you could display your desktop or any subset of it , or other content you choose . CamTwist 's feature set is likely very similar to Ryan Sharp 's suggestion for ManyCam .
I 've found that I can do this by editing the file . Just added : to , and after reopening bash my alias command worked just fine .
end question
start question
Aperture : during Import , keys to check/uncheck an image ?
Not possible with keyboard only at the moment . For whatever reason , Apple decided to not use the default OS X behavior for toggling checkboxes ( Space ) in Aperture .
I would guess that the weakest link is n't the choice of formats , but your picking a decent password and not letting it get observed or captured . In the general case where there is a system tool and a third party one , I usually start with the tool that is built in until I have good , definite and enumerable reasons to not use the default tool . Go with encrypted disk images in the case you have set out .
You can not force the OS X to use the integrated GPU if you have dual GPU ( integrated + descrete ) . By default OS X will use descrete GPU when booting . Anyway , if you are a victim of infamous GPU failure in Late 2011 MBP , go to your nearest Apple Store or Service Center . Apple will fix it for free .
Yes . That 's normal . As for " okay " -- it depends . The heat is coming from the extra graphic activity and CPU activity you 're asking your machine to perform when playing the games . The MBPro is vented at the back , along the hinge between the screen and the keyboard , you want to make sure that area is free of obstructions and the hot air can leave escape unimpeded . Long-term exposure to high operating temperatures can certainly be detrimental to the components in your machine . But for the most part , if your machine 's venting is unobstructed , it should be able to cool itself adequately .
No , you ca n't do this unless the website allows it . The uploaded file will use the name of the file that you uploaded , and on iOS this is always . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this at the following page : <URL>
In order to assign a keyboard shortcut to this script , you could create a service in Automator . You must change to . Then add and paste your script . Save it on . Once saved , you must go to and you can find out under . Assign your preferred shortcut there .
If you 're not very fond of iSSH , I might suggest Prompt as an alternative . I have not encountered a better terminal app for iOS till this date . To copy your private keys , just connect your device to iTunes and manage the application 's files in the Apps tab under File Sharing . You can add your private keys there , and they will be available for authenticating inside the app .
So , using a little plist trickery , I 've managed to re-assign those keys . The steps I took are the following : Aperture > Commands . . > Customize Duplicate current command set and name it " MySet " Export &amp; delete the current set Open it with Property List Editor Find and Delete : MoveSelectionUp and MoveSelectionDown entries Save and exit Import it via Aperture > Commands . . > Import Select it via Aperture > Commands . . > Custom commands set So now the UP &amp; DOWN arrow keys are free to assign whatever you like ( in my case Increase &amp; Decrease rating feels like the way to go ! )
You might be interested in exporting all of the KeyChain in to Text file that you can save for later uses . Be aware anyone with access to your computer can now plainly see that information . Run this in Terminal You will have to click " Allow " till done , or use script that does that , but since it is usually one time action just do it manually .
Once the Mail program has launched , open the Mail application Preferences . This can be done by selecting it from the Mail menu bar option or by using the " Command - , " keyboard shortcut , which simply consists of pressing ⌘ + , at the same time . Choose the " Signatures " option of the Mail Preferences window . Add a new signature profile by clicking on the " Create a Signature " button located under the second pane within the Signatures Preferences window . This button is represented by a square containing a plus ( + ) sign . See accompanying image . In the third pane located within the Mail Signatures Preferences Window , type the text of your email signature . You can also paste your text from another application , like Microsoft Word , Apple Pages or Apple TextEdit . Pasting from another application will maintain the text 's font , size and style , if that is something you need or desire . Keep in mind that some fonts may not display properly on the email recipient 's computer , depending upon the fonts you use and the fonts they have . Assuming that you have an image that you wish to add to your new signature , just drag the image from its location on your Mac ( using the Finder ) and drop it in the same pane where you just typed or pasted your new signature text . The image should appear next to or below your text . Make sure to use only web compatible images - JPG , PNG or GIF .
If both system are using the IMAP mail provider all you have to do is setup the connection to the mail server and all the emails and folders will be copied down to the windows computer . That is what IMAP is for . The mail stays on the server , and can be store on the local computer also , and when you connect to the server with another device , computer , phone or pad , all the mail with folders gets copied to the other device . But I think some of your mail was gotten using POP so it is not longer on the server . Or you have emails in local folder only and they would be on the server . But you can create folder on the server in one mail program , or on the mail web interface and then copy those emails into those folder on the server byt copying them in one of the email programs . Then when you log on with the other device all of them will be downloaded to the other device . Other alternative : - You can find various solutions on having a <URL> search for your problem . Or you can have a look at the following link : <URL>
Applications that are distributed on disk images ( files ) are designed to be installed using drag and drop . You can safely drag and drop the application from the virtual drive into your Applications folder and use it from your Applications folder . After copying it to your Applications folder it 's safe to eject the virtual drive and delete the disk image file . Nearly all applications will work just fine running off that virtual hard drive as they store their content in your user folder ( eg . browsers , mail applications , etc. ) . It will however stop you from running application updates as the disk image is read only .
The procedure of photo transfer from iPhone to Mac is astoundingly simple and takes few minutes . You can simply follow below steps : Download <URL> Firstly you will need to download the iPhone to Mac Wi-Fi transfer app to your iPhone through Apple App Store . No installation on your Mac required ! Connect your iPhone and Mac to the same Wi-Fi network . If you do not have multiple routers at your place , your iOS devices should detect and connect to the same Wi-Fi network automatically . Otherwise you might need to manually choose the Wi-fi network for your iPhone to the same as the Mac . Run the iPhone Photo Wireless Transfer Run the photos iPhone to Mac Wireless transfer app on your iPhone . You will get a local IP address through which your Mac can access your iPhone photos library . Browse through your iPhone photo library from your Mac browser Open the web browser on your Mac , type the above IP address in the address bar of your web browser on the Mac . It could be Internet Explorer , Chrome , Firefox , Safari , or any other web browsers you have . Press Enter on the keyboard , all photos and albums from this iPhone 's photo library will be listed on the Photo Wireless Transfer interface right on your Mac browser . After the Wi-Fi connection between your iPhone and Mac established , you can use the web browser on the Mac to browse through photo library and albums on iPhone . Open the target photo album , you will find all photos listed as thumbnails . Transfer photos from iPhone to Mac Now it 's time to pick up the photos from iPhone photo library and transfer to Mac over Wi-Fi . You can click the ' preview ' to enlarge the photos ; you can click ' Download original ' to download pictures one by one ; you can also select multiple photos or all photos in the album and download them as a compressed zip file . With this iPhone to Mac transfer tool , to copy photos from iPhone to Mac over the air is much easier than ever before .
According to Logitech you need they <URL> download and installed . Make sure you pick the right OS X and follow the instructions .
This searches your online Facebook and Flickr account for any images that have been uploaded since your last Aperture upload . If there are new images in your Facebook or Flikcr albums these will be catalogued into Aperture .
Well I found a thread <URL> that seems to accomplish what you 're asking . I ca n't put it any better than forum poster himself , so here 's what he said in case the page is n't working : I figured out a way to do this , so thought I would post for anyone following me that has a bunch of VPN settings and does n't want to manually key them back in . You will basically have to copy &amp; paste a few GUIDs to make your old prefs data match your new system . This worked for me going from one Mac OS X 10.6 SL system to another SL system . I would imagine similar steps would work for Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard and possibly 10.7 Lion . Here we go : First , go to Network Preferences on your new machine and add VPN ( L2TP ) , VPN ( PPTP ) , or whatever VPN " interfaces " you need . Do not create any new VPN configurations at this time . Close Network Prefs . Open System Profiler , select and copy to the clipboard the Hardware UUID from the Hardware tab . Navigate to ~ / Library/Preferences/ByHost and find your old NetworkConnections prefs file . It will have the form of com.apple.networkConnect . . plist . Make a copy of this file . Replace the portion w / the one you copied in step # 2 . Do n't forget to remove any spaces and the " copy " tag . You should now have a new file called com.apple.networkConnect . . plist . Open 2 files in an editor that can handle . plist files ( I used TextWrangler ) : the com.apple.networkConnect . . plist file you just made , and / Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration / preferences.plist . In preferences.plist , look for the GUID of each VPN interface that you 've created . The " UserDefinedName " string at the end of the key will tip you off : The first long string ( " 14A4B264 ... " ) is the part you need . Copy this to the clipboard . Now move over to your com.apple.networkConnect file . Find the key that has all of your old VPN settings for that VPN type contained w/in it . Select all of the key name ( which is the GUID of your VPN interface on your old Mac ) , then paste to replace it w / the new GUID . Repeat steps 5 &amp; 6 for each VPN interface you need . In my case , there were 2 : L2TP and PPTP . Save your changes and close the com.apple.networkConnect file . Close the preferences.plist file WITHOUT saving anything . Open your Network Preferences , select your VPN interface ( s ) , and you should see your past configurations . Hope this helps you !
A recipe for deploying iLife 11 using <URL> just rolled across my twitter stream , so almost all the credit here goes to <URL> for the recipe . It is available on github and lists the package names and checksums for verifying the install . <URL>
The command-line utility gives you more flexibility , and is extensively documented in . Something like this should do :
I assume your problem resides in the fact that Photos app is taking too much space on your iPad . If this is the issue , your best solution for managing space and keeping a synced Photo Library across devices is to enable Optimise iPad Storage under Settings - > Photos &amp; Camera - > Optimise iPad Storage on your iPad . The Photos app on your iPad will then manage which photos are kept at high resolution and which are just stored as thumbnails . You can also activate the same preference on your Mac 's Photos app , under Photos - > Preferences - > iCloud Tab - > Optimise Mac Storage on the top bar . Unfortunately , there 's no way to delete a photo exclusively in one device once iCloud Photo Library is enabled .
There 's an OS X feature called <URL> that stores the FileVault key in the SMC for the duration of the reboot . Apple acknowledges <URL> that it does reduce FileVault security for the duration of the restart : On supported hardware , allows restart of a FileVault-enabled system without requiring unlock during the subsequent boot using the command . WARNING : FileVault protections are reduced during authenticated restarts . In particular , deliberately stores at least one additional copy of a permanent FDE ( full disk encryption ) unlock key in both system memory and ( on supported systems ) the System Management Controller ( SMC ) . must be run as root and itself prompts for a password to unlock the FileVault root volume . Use to prevent saving the key across standby modes . Once is authenticated , it launches and , upon successful unlock , the unlock key will be removed .
end question
start question
On how many devices with the same iTunes account can you share an app ?
As far as I know , there is n't a limit . As long as the account is associated with the device , then any apps from that account can be put onto that device . If you own more than one device , you do n't have to purchase the app again . You could own one hundred iOS devices and pay for just one app .
Your preferred setup is not possible : OS X ca n't share an NTFS disk with Windows for backup because Time Machine needs HFS + ( from <URL> ) : Manually preparing a new disk for Time Machine ( ... ) If you want to partition the disk , click the Partition tab and select a layout . Make sure " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " is selected in the Format menu for the partition that will be used for backups . Click Apply . Luckily , you do n't need two separate drives . Using <URL> you can trick your computer into thinking it is connected to more than one drive , although there 's only one . In this case , two partitions will suffice , one HFS + and one NTFS . ( Why only one NTFS partition although you back up 3 Windows computers ? Because Windows stores backups in folders named after the computer name so there are no conflicts whatsoever ( see this <URL> ) . You can use one NTFS partition to store backups of multiple Windows computers . ) I 'd recommend that you create the HFS + partition on your Mac first , then , on your Windows computer , format the other partition to NTFS : Plug your drive into your Mac . Open Disk Utility ( in Applications/Utilities ) . Select the drive and select the Partition tab . Create two partitions . Format the first partition as HFS + ( and give it a name like " Time Machine " ) . Leave the other partition as " Free Space " . See <URL> for more details . Eject the drive and plug it into your Windows computer . Format the second partition as NTFS . When you 're done , plug the drive again into every Mac/Windows computer and select the corresponding partition as backup drive ( see <URL> for OS X and <URL> for Windows ) . To prevent the NTFS partition from being mounted every time you connect the drive into your Mac add this entry to ( as explained <URL> ) : Replace with the NTFS partition name . This setup works like a charm . I have a very similar configuration : My external 1 TB drive , which I use for backing up my Mac and my wife 's Windows PC , has two partitions called " Time Machine " and " BACKUP_WINDOWS " :
Assign to Space Go to the space you want the app to open in ( in your case the second space ) Right click your application 's dock icon Move your cursor to " Options " Under " Assign to " select " This Desktop " Window position and size control I Googled and found a solution for the resizing issue . <URL> Make your application launch via an Apple Script ! Make a script similar to this : Save it as " Application " Put the saved application in your Launch Items instead of the program itself Additionally you may undock it with <URL> to make this script run silently .
I think he 's asking about actually using an iPhone as a GPS module for a laptop , rather than sending a location which can be viewed on a laptop . This functionality is n't available unless you jailbreak your iPhone , then you can use xGPS or any of the similar apps on Cydia which can turn your iPhone into a bluetooth GPS module .
Individual apps from the App Store ca n't be passcode protected in this way without jailbreaking which you mentioned you do n't want to do . You may be able to use restrictions , but you will need to go to Settings each time to enable/disable access , and restrictions are only available for certain pre-installed apps and features .
OK , I figured it out but it 's not straightforward . I figured it had to be stored in a . plist file somewhere , so I searched all the . plist files in for ones that contained the Apple ID I used for iMessages . These were the ones : When I searched for on the web I found a link to a <URL> on the Apple forums that also helped out . So basically , this is what I did : Delete the . plist files I mentioned above ( note , the last one with the UUID in the name is likely to be different for each user ) : Then I removed all the chat history and archive : Then I restarted the Mac just in case . Now the account and everything about it that ever existed on this machine is gone :)
If you and your kid -- or actually your device and your kid 's device are on the same network , you could simply share your library like this : Go to your iTunes preferences and click on the sharing tab . You can then choose to either share your complete library , or select a playlist to share . On the client iTunes ( your kid 's device ) your shared library should be visible in the top-right corner . You can also find further details on this over here : " <URL> " ( at apple.com ) If you are actually not on a desktop/macbook computer then things are slightly different -- but still possible . Then you may want to check out this article : " <URL> "
You can try <URL> ( I do n't have an iMac to test it ) . I read that it can not only decrease the screen brightness beyond OS X defaults ( like others do ) but also control the screen backlight . You can bypass the default red tinting mode and just use these brightness controls .
Not without a jailbreak . If you get a jailbreak there are various ways to do things such as switch airplane mode on/off , adjust screen brightness , turn wifi/3G on or off . The app <URL> is one such example . You 'd be better off diagnosing your AP problem than jailbreaking your phone for just this feature though in my opinion .
You do have to create a new shared album , but you can create the album from the contents of the existing album so you do n't need to find the images again manually . Open the album . Choose Select in the top right , then Select All in the top left . Tap Share in the bottom left , then create a new iCloud Photo Sharing album as usual . Once you 've created the shared album , you can delete the old album .
This is not possible in iOS 9 . Only one instance of an app can run at any given time . There is a small change in iOS 10 allowing two instances of Safari to run concurrently , but that is a special case .
No , the name of your app as it appears in the App Store must be unique . When creating your app , you will receive the following error if you try to use a name that is already taken : The Application Name that you provided has already been used . Please provide a unique Application Name . But the name on the icon can be whatever you want - it can be the same as another app 's icon name . Source : <URL>
In iTunes , go to the iTunes Store tab , and click on your account in the top right corner , as shown . After typing your password , you will see this page . Click ' Change Country or Region ' , and change it . All done ! Note : if you have any iTunes Store credit , you will have to spend all of it before it lets you switch countries .
One person sharing two or more Macs , all running Lion Method A : physical share of a disk For your file to be versioned , save first to removable media with a file system that supports permanent version storage . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . Use the volume with other Macs running Lion . Examples : a USB flash drive using MS-DOS ( FAT ) lacks support a USB flash drive using JHFS + does support permanent version storage . Method B : electronic file share of a disk image In a directory that is shared using Apple Filing Protocol ( or any other appropriate <URL> ) , create a disk image , maybe a sparse bundle . Choose a format -- a file system -- that supports permanent version storage . Open the image . For your file to be versioned , save first to the volume that is imaged . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . At another Mac running Lion : connect to the file server open the image . Hints The <URL> preference pane can help you to enable advanced image options in Disk Utility . An image of a volume may be not reliably backed up whilst the volume is attached/mounted . For reliability , unmount/eject the volume before backing up . Multiple users Either method A or B will work , but both require negotiation between humans :-) Method C For each version that you wish to share , use the Duplicate command then save a separate file . The downside of this traditional approach is separation . Users of other Macs ( not necessarily running Lion ) might take a Cover Flow view of the files , but that 's not as neat as a versions browser view of a single file . AFP , Apple versions and security/privacy You might wonder why saving to an Apple-oriented file service , for example a service using <URL> , does not save Apple versions on the server . Think : privacy , security . Example Someone in Government saves a file that describes the true state of the economy , a state that is terrible . The person changes the file to present a different truth , a truth that will keep the lions at bay , saves his or her changes . When ready to share , the author puts the one file on an AFP server . Other users of the server open the file in any application that supports Apple versions . They see only one version , the most recent . We ( other users ) might wish to see all versions of a file -- including versions that were not intended for sharing -- but for Mac OS X 10.7 ( Build 11A511 ) the sanest default is : share nothing other than the most recent version .
Selling unlocked phones is a fairly new thing for Apple retail . They 've never been part of a product launch - so looking back , the precedent is NIL . There is great precedent for any new phone launch to have lines and quotas for the first 30 to 60 days after a product introduction . There also is precedent for a huge shipment on launch day - then limited stock for a few weeks as things sell faster than they can be made . I would simply stop by your store and get to know the business team if you have business needs . Until the policy is announced , it should be handled like any other phone in terms of what payment is allowed ( cash or not ) as well as purchase limits . The last launch , it was one phone per person while availability was limited and one web order at a time . Once the stores stopped selling out of inventory on a daily basis , it was easier to just walk in and get a phone . Last time I checked , the store has to bring out a different physical box when I purchased an unlocked phone ( I changed my mind about AT&amp;T contract half way through the process ) . The current stock does ship as an AT&amp;T phone or an unlocked GSM phone - they are not the same SKU . I suppose the computers could use a common stock and " unlock " the device when selling , but that would be different than what happens today . I do know that the <URL> worked very well last launch , so do think about getting that installed if you are keen to get a few phones as soon as iOS 5 launches .
I use <URL> to get information like this . In the right sidebar of every page , it shows the total stats of all the app stores . For example , as of 18 Sep 2011 at 5:10 pm GMT , the sidebar shows : Total Apps Total Apps Approved : 595452 Total Available Apps : 462144 Total Available iPhone Apps : 411134 Total Available iPad Apps : 132388 Total Available Mac Apps : 6939
In iTunes , you can opt back out of sharing details by opening the preferences and selecting the store preferences tab .
Currently , it is not possible to gift Mac App Store apps directly . There is a workaround where you could buy an iTunes Gift card ( from the iTunes store home menu ) for exactly the price of the app and the recipient can redeem the code in the Mac App Store
I 'll preface this with , I 'm not an IOS developer , but I 'm sure it works much the same was as Android and other GPS APIs . When an App calls the GPS APIs it 's calling an abstraction to the GPS/Location system and receives position information that the system presents . So in this case when one application asks the OS for Location data , the OS uses a mix of GPS and Wifi data to determine the location of the device . If at the same time another application requests location data , the phone would just use the location data that it has instead of having to turn on the radios again .
In the iPhone app , at the bottom of the list of episodes you will always find the link you can tap to " Get More Episodes " . That is a hardwired link to that podcast 's page on iTunes . This link will be shown regardless of whether or not there are more episodes actually available . The podcast pages in the iTunes app and in iTunes on the desktop are the same and contain the same episode list . The episode lists themeselves are not controlled or determined by Apple or iTunes , but by the makers of each podcast . Podcast makers use different feed systems ( like adlib or feeedburner ) and they have different bandwith limitations depending on their own usage terms . Podcasts like This American Life , for example , in order to minimize bandwith costs , will only keep the latest episode on their episode list . So when you tap on " Get More Episodes " you will only get a list of one . Podcasts like This Week In Tech , for example , have bandwith sponsors that allow them to host most of their back catalogue . So when you tap on " Get More Epidodes " , you will get a list of fifty or more . It basically all depends on how each podcast maker handles their feed and bandwith costs . Hope this helps .
end question
start question
How can I apply tags in Mavericks recursively ?
You can use xattr to write various metadata related to the " new " tags in Mavericks . John Siracusa did the heavily lifting already <URL> . Essentially you need to write two attributes , com.apple.FinderInfo and com.apple.metadata : _ kMDItemUserTags , to the files . The easiest way is going to be to get a file tagged how you want and just copy the attributes from it . Open up terminal and change to the directory containing the folder you want to tag recursively . Then enter : That will open up Finder so you can tag the sampleFile how you want all the other files to be tagged . After you 're done tagging , switch back to your terminal window and enter : That will recursively drill down and tag all the files in yourDirName as well as files in any subdirectories . You can leave the - type f argument off if you want to tag the subdirectories as well as the files . Finally , you can change the commands to if you want to only tag certain file types/extensions .
This issue has been removed with the latest Chrome update ( 18.0.1025.142 ) . You can read more about the update here : <URL>
This is still possible in Mavericks . Have you looked under Terminal and then ticked " Use option as meta key " at the bottom ?
For maximizing windows ( and more ) , I use SizeUp : <URL> This is not the same as full-screen mode which Mark refers to .
Spotlight does n't index Time Machine backups or the Trash . It does do external disks but certain conditions have to be met for it to do them .
To downgrade , boot into Internet Recovery with ⌥ ⌘ R and select Reinstall OS X. With regard to the original question for Yosemite Developer Previews , yes you can , but note that Yosemite DPs so far do seem to break most of the App Store . If you are still running an early Yosemite Developer Preview , you can downgrade using the Recovery HD ( ⌘ R ) as the Recovery HD was not upgraded . For later DPs , including GM and public beta , see above .
You can use <URL> . From the website : Features Unified location bar with search bar Search directly using location bar Quickly switch engines using search engine keywords Define new search engines It works on Snow Leopard and Lion . NB : it requires you to install <URL> . See the <URL> on the website .
Is there a Downloads item in the Store area of the column on the left side of iTunes ? If so then you can click on it , click on the stalled download , and delete it . Edited to add There are a couple of places you might check after quitting iTunes . The first is Make sure it 's empty , and if not , remove what 's in there ( set it aside so you can put it back if it confuses iTunes later ) . The other place is : and look for the file ( or or whatever the game is called ) . Delete this file -- it 's the actual now-outdated game that iTunes is trying to update . Otherwise iTunes has the need to download it stored in its database and does n't care about files . I take it that agreeing to the download does n't help ?
According to this detailed <URL> post the trick is to use Lion 10.7.2 and Safari 5.1.1 to force a flush of the Data . Simplified steps : Turn off bookmark sync on all devices except the Mac Backup current bookmarks on Mac Correct bookmarks on Safari on the Mac Move the new bookmarks out of you Safari Library folder Delete all bookmarks and wait for iCloud to update . Move the new bookmarks folder back and wait for iCloud to update Delete all bookmarks on iOS devices and re-enable sync . It 's laborious , but I am fairly certain Apple will release better tools for this process . Considering there normal rollout , they are probably handling these issues in phases . They introduced Photo Stream reset mid way in the Beta , so I am sure they will bring the rest through over time .
Continuous scrolling is available for iBooks on iOS but not the Mac . The Mac version of iBooks only allows pagination .
Open your desired user Home folder in Finder ( ShiftCommand + H ) and select View > Show View Options . There should be a checkbox for toggling the Library folder .
If you mean the keychain that is called Local Items in the U.S. English locale , I think it is used for keychain items that are eligible to be synced with <URL> . From <URL> : If the iCloud Keychain is subsequently disabled , the iCloud keychain highlighted in the screenshot above is replaced with a " Local Items " keychain that has the same contents as the iCloud keychain . Any items added to the Local Items keychain will be pushed out to other devices when iCloud Keychain is re-enabled . I have never enabled iCloud Keychain , but I also have a Local Items keychain . It contains about half of the keychain items from my login keychain , or mostly web form passwords . The Local Items keychain does not seem to correspond to any file and it can not be deleted .
Unfortunately I 'm unaware of any way to do this without a workaround . Here it is : Go to preferences - > signatures and create one that uses the font color you want to use . You have to select the text , right-click , go under font and pick the color from there ( at least on my Lion machine ) Set that signature as your default When you compose a new message , put your cursor on the beginning of the line that the signature is on , hit enter a few times , and when you start typing your message it will be in that font/color . There will be a blank line at the top that is formatted black , which you can backspace to delete , just make sure you 've started typing something first or it will set it back to black .
It 's a boring answer , but it looks like Afloat has been updated to support Lion : <URL>
The OS X upgrades on the MAS are very different than all other products . It is an installer as opposed to the actual program that you run . What is available is the chance for you to re-download the installer before you need it and save a copy . Apple initially made it hard for people to re-download the installer - presumably since many are equally confused as you are . However , lots of people were confused on how to re-download the app and a change was made a while back to show it as a download to anyone that " purchased " an upgrade .
You can use the terminal : The hidden file are hidden by adding a dot in the beginning of the file name . Or with the good old GUI method : Launch the application you wish to use to edit or view the hidden file . Select ' Open ' from the application 's File menu . An Open Dialog box will display . With the dialog box as the front-most window ( you can click once in the dialog box to make sure it 's in front ) , press command + shift + . The dialog box now will display any hidden files or folders within its list items . You can toggle between the hidden files and folders being displayed by pressing command + shift + . again .
The tags name are in . You can read it with It will need some parsing to be a bit clearer : Other possibility is parsing the plist as xml . To do that you 'll need to first convert the plist from binary to xml using .
No , there is no way to do that in the current build . Well , sort of . An example is if you have iTunes open in fullscreen in a separate desktop , and go to mission control , the desktop will be called iTunes .
Once the folder created ( with the name Utility ) you click ( once ) on the folder to open it , once opened the name of the folder appears in bold + the different apps inside that folder . To change the name , click on the name ( shown inside the folder ) to change it .
No , you can not , for a number of reasons : Most ( when I say most , I mean all but a few ) Jailbreak tweaks modify files outside of your user profile . This is a separate partition and can not be accessed unless you have root access ( you have to be Apple or you have to be Jailbroken ) . Jailbreaking , from a low-level point-of-view , simply makes it so you can run unsigned code on iOS , which allows you to break out of the sandbox environment in . This allows you to install Cydia , modify system files , and gain root access . If you notice in your iOS browser on your computer , you can only access things in ( or it might even call it , because that 's what a sandbox does - it 's ) . Even if the file browser is cool enough to read on your true , it 's not going to be able to write . With that being said , you 're going to have to Jailbreak in order to install Jailbreak tweaks . Note : I have n't used Phone Disk , but iFunBox is pretty much the same thing .
end question
start question
Why is the CAcert root certificate not trusted on iOS devices ?
It turns out that iOS 5 and newer no longer trust certificates that are signed with the MD5 hash algorithm . This is confirmed by the official Apple support document <URL> . The current CAcert root certificate is signed with MD5 , so there is no fix for the problem until CAcert issues a new root certificate .
There is no limit to how many iOS devices you can sync with iTunes . The 5 computer limit is how many computers you can have authorized simultaneously with iTunes .
This is a legitimate bug with Siri : <URL> The bug has to be fixed on Apple 's end ( or Yahoo 's , or wherever exactly the problem is occurring ) . But you can work around it temporarily by asking for the weather in " Zip Code 10028 " ( or whatever ) . Note that you seem to have to say " Zip Code " - just using the number does n't seem to work . That 's a bit surprising that you 're seeing it now since it first popped up almost three weeks ago -- you 'd think they would have fixed it by now . I guess all you can do is wait and it 'll resolve itself at some point .
After taking it up with Apple Support , here is the answer : The first user ( AppleID ) which activates a new iPhone gets those apps free . If the iPhone is reset to defaults and another user ( AppleID ) is used , which is what I did , then that user does not get them for free . So the free option is a one time thing .
<URL> , ( scroll to the bottom of the page ) only the two most recent generations of each device can upgrade . So both iPads , the iPhone 4 and 3GS and the 3rd &amp; 4th generation iPod touch . One exception : The CDMA ( Verizon in the US ) iPhone 4 is staying on 4.2.6 for a while . It has some , but not all , features of iOS 4.3 . That leaves the first two generations of iPod touch and the original iPhone and iPhone 3G unable to use it . The 3G and second-generation iPod touch got stripped-down versions of 4.0-4 .2.1 . ( No multitasking , homescreen wallpapers , or printing . ) The other two devices left out ( 1st-gen iPod touch &amp; iPhone ) did n't even get 4.0 .
Yes Apple has released the <URL> ( see the bottom ) : iPhone 4s iPhone 5 iPhone 5c iPhone 5s iPod touch 5th generation iPad 2 iPad with Retina display ( iPad 3 ) iPad Air iPad mini iPad mini with Retina display
This can be caused by the default sound settings being changed . If you go to System Preferences -- > Sound -- > " Sound Effects " you will see a pull down list labeled Play sound effects through ... On my machine there was the following listed : Internal Speakers and my monitor . For some reason after the OS upgrade my monitor ( and HDMI ) was selected instead of internal speakers . Switching to Internal Speakers fixed this . You should select the appropriate item for your setup . Also , you can go to the Output and Input tabs and verify that the correct item is selected as well . See this picture for additional information :
There 's been much debate and discussion around this topic . I believe it was beneficial for iOS back in the v3 and v4 days but now it 's not . Craig Federighi even came out recently saying it 's not necessary and it does n't increase the battery life . Apple has built-in their memory management the proper time to suspend and/or kill an app when necesssary . The only time you should force-close an app is if it has become unresponsive .
Personal Hotspot is designed for sharing a cellular data connection , not for acting as a wireless access point or router . This means that multiple devices connected to the same iOS device can not connect to one another - they can only access the Internet ( assuming the cellular data connection is active ) . Unfortunately I ca n't find any Apple documentation to confirm this , but have seent his from personal experience . Your best solution is to purchase a portable wireless access point and connect all of your devices to that .
I think this Apple support article has the list you 're looking for . It is updated as changes are made : <URL> And StartCom is on there .
Yes , providing you use the same Apple ID . When you purchase iWork for free on your new device , it is added to your purchases and then available to download on your other devices .
<URL> for almost all devices on 03/24/16 which means you ca n't install it . And no , <URL> to iOS 9.3 since Apple is no longer signing it . Update : iOS 9.3 ( 13E237 ) has been released on 03/28/16 for most devices , so you should be able to download the new firmware and install now . If you still ca n't install , you likely have one of the few devices that still do n't have an updated version of iOS 9.3 . You can check your device 's signing status <URL> .
I suggest you use the + / - buttons on the upper left . At the time of posting , there is no mouse-input way to zoom the map in or out . I tested it on Safari on a Mac with Yosemite ( 10.10 ) .
No , being enrolled within the Apple Developer 's Program does not provide you with any kind of special downgrade possibilities . In the other hand , being a Developer grants you the ability to upgrade to the newest yet-to-be-released version of iOS . So , being the iPad 2 <URL> for iOS 6 , you wo n't be able to upgrade it to iOS 5.1.1 instead , enrolled as a Developer or not .
No , it does not . You need the discrete GPU to run an external display . Funny though , because the integrated GPU 's of the MacBook Air can power up to a 27 " thunderbolt display . But that 's how Apple rolls .
iOS device boot times ( timed using a second hand ) : Feel free to edit this answer and add your own times .
Directly from the Apple <URL> : Automatic setup . Seamless switching . AirPods connect automatically with all your Apple devices . They 're simultaneously connected to your iPhone and Apple Watch , and sound switches instantly between the devices . Want to listen to your Mac or iPad ? Just choose AirPods on those devices .1 Requires iCloud account and macOS Sierra , iOS 10 , or watchOS 3 . AirPods have the same Bluetooth technology as your iPhone / Apple Watch . They connect automatically with your Mac as the iOS devices do . On your Mac you just change ' Speakers ' to AirPods . This is a big hunch : iPhone is paired with your Apple Watch / AirPods and communicates with your iCloud account to your Mac to ' trust ' these devices .
Only the iPhone 5C has any theme support , in that they contain custom wallpaper to match the colour of the device which is selected as a default when first using the device . This themeing does not extend into apps , and is simply a pre-chosen wallpaper . It has no relevance for any other phone model , or iPad .
The expected behavior when you see this message is to simply contact the vendor of the cable or charger and verify that your are in fact safe to charge an iPhone . I would hate to tell people to disregard a message that could have safety implications . Granted , not all third party cables and/or chargers are faulty , but what if this were a warning that could get you to seek assistance from Apple or the vendor and ensure that a sub-standard part is n't being used to charge your device . <URL> Given some of the horribly unsafe chargers that I have personally seen , I do n't expect this to be an easy warning to bypass without jailbreaking .
All iPhone models are offered with and without a carrier lock , also 4 , 4s ( which I write this from , I never bought or will buy a locked one ) and the newer ones . In Europe it is a must to offer unlocked versions , I do n't know about the policy in the country you live . The lock is on demand of the carrier , not of Apple .
end question
start question
Where are AirDrop temp files located ?
I believe that airdrop transfers directly into your downloads folder . Should anything happen to interrupt the transfer , you will likely end up with a file called " transferred_file.txt . download " , the file is renamed to remove the . download upon completion . If you have any . download files sitting there and not changing in size , they are failed downloads and can potentially be restarted ( if they originated from Safari ) , or removed . You can test this by transferring a new large file , and watching the file get created , increase in size , then get renamed .
It sounds like somehow the database that stores all the icon positions got in a jam and needs to be flushed . You will lose all organization ( but no actual data ) if you choose to reset the home screen layout . This allows the springboard process to re-establish one icon for each app installed . Check out this answer - its for another app icon , but the scenario is really the same . <URL>
It sounds like you are using bash . bash first runs / etc/profile . / etc/profile ( on Mac OS X 10.6.7 ) runs path_helper ( 8 ) which is where your default paths get set . After that it runs / etc/bashrc which does n't do much . Once the default configuration is set , it moves on to the user login scripts . bash looks in your home directory for . bash_profile , . bash_login , and . profile in that order . bash will run the first of these that it finds and stop looking .
Personally I go with OWC . They are more famous for all Mac related upgrades . Here is the memory upgrade link <URL> Main advantage is you can choose RAM based on your model / make of the year etc. . .
With airdrop it is always a direct connection ( usually wifi or a mix of wifi + bluetooth ) between the 2 devices . No internet connection is required at all . So you can transfer as much as you like and it will all be local between the devices ; " peer to peer " like you say . Your internet quota wo n't be used at all .
Files that get exported to iTunes on iOS do n't automatically transfer to iTunes the next time you sync . A manual step is required : select the device in iTunes , then click the Apps tab and scroll to the bottom of the page . The file transfer section is where you pick Pages and then place a copy of the exported file onto your computer 's file system . Apple has a longer article with step by step instructions and pictures : <URL>
In Mac OS X , all applications store theire cache files in one place : / Users/yourusername/Library / Caches There you can find the Adobe caches , and Adobe Air cache files .
Not Yet , I have tested it and TechHive <URL> . Though Mavericks may bring this functionality ( complete speculation obviously ) .
Your mac ( and mine too ) is not compatible with airdrop between mac and iOS System Requirements To see if your Mac works with AirDrop , make sure you 're in the Finder by clicking the desktop ( the background area of your screen ) , or by clicking the Finder icon in the Dock . Then , check to see if AirDrop is listed as an option in the Go menu . If you do n't see AirDrop listed , your Mac does n't support this feature . In order to transfer files between a Mac and and an iPhone , iPad or iPod touch your iOS device needs to include a lightning connector your iOS device needs iOS 7 or later installed your Mac needs to be a 2012 or later model with OS X Yosemite installed Your Mac and iOS device both need bluetooth and Wi-Fi turned on . You do not have to be connected to a specific Wi-Fi network source : <URL>
Its on : Notice though this is the system library , not the user library , so its right on the root of the drive and not inside your user folder . Its hidden by default . Go to terminal and type to open it . Hope it helps ! Edit : On Finder , you can hit CMDShiftG and paste the path to go to the folder . ( thanks Sjoerd )
Not using the All My Files option , but yes you can , using your own search criteria . Open your volume in Finder Search for Any Document : Set the search location to the name of the drive : Alternatively , for all files ( not just Documents like All My Files ) you can set the search criteria by size : You can change the view to make it match the appearance of All My Files :
You can download them from <URL> . For example , to download man page : Search for in the Google Custom Search field on the right hand side : Click on the newest man page in section 3 : Download the linked . gz man page : Copy it to the man directory : If you want to keep system and additional man pages apart , copy it to : and add : to , if you wish the new man page to be available system-wide , or , to be available to your user only ( see , that is , 's man page , for more information on . ) Open a new Terminal window or tab for changes to take effect . Otherwise , copy the man page to : Enjoy :
There is a small print at the bottom of the download info page for the GarageBand ver 10.1 . - Requires Apple Music Connect Account Do you have one ? But here is the good news . I do not have the Apple Music Connect and was able to get the GarageBand 10.1 update . I have a MBA 2012 with Mavericks ( 10.9.5 ) and here is the process I had to do . need to accept this then continue with download You will be asked to log in again to complete the download/installation . And it is ready to go :
AirDrop uses Bluetooth to create a peer-to-peer Wi-Fi network between the devices . Each device creates a firewall around the connection and files are sent encrypted , which actually makes it safer than transferring via email . AirDrop will automatically detect nearby supported devices , and the devices only need to be close enough to establish a good Wi-Fi connection , making it possible to share files across several rooms .
You may need to recheck the Podcasts checkbox in the menu . <URL> that it may be unchecked by default . Once checked , podcasts should appear under Library rather than as a playlist .
They 're stored in on Lion . This is a package though and you ca n't just double-click in to the package to see the sub-folders . Double clicking on it will , instead , open Photo Booth . If you just want to get at the pictures , right-click ( or control-click ) on the package under and select from the menu . Under the package directory you 'll see a sub-directory called -- that 's where Photo Booth is keeping your snaps . Change in to there to access the images directly . From within Photo Booth you can also right-click ( or control-click ) on any image in the bottom bar and select ' Export ... ' or ' Reveal in Finder ' from the pop-up menu to access the image . The former gives you a Save dialog that lets you place the image file in some easily accessible location . The latter opens up that directory in the package I mentioned above directly in a Finder window .
I 'll admit I 'm biased because I 've been working with it for years now , but <URL> has one of the best MIDI editing interfaces going . If the Pro version is a little too much for you to stomach there 's an " Express " version that 's pared down when it comes to plugins and samples , but has the same excellent MIDI editor . On the cheap-but-effective side you 've got <URL> which will run on OS X and includes MIDI editing facilities . You can try it out for free and it 's $ 40 ( at the time of writing ) to buy it if you like it . Hard to beat that deal . And then in between these two running the gamut of price and features you 've got a whole slew of other options : Cubase , Sonar , Abelton , etc. . Each of them offering slightly ( or not so slightly ) different interfaces and feature sets .
There are easily 10Gb of files hidden from the Finder . Get Info on a disk and Get Info on a folder work differently . On a disk , it simply asks the disk resource for a count of the used blocks and thus gets an answer almost immediately . This value accurately reflects how much is stored on the drive in question . Get Info on a folder digs through that folder and adds up the size of each file that you are able to read . You can not , for example , know how much another user has in their Mail folder by running Get Info on the User folder . Also , there is a difference between the file size and the space-on-disk size . Storing a single character in a file will consume 4kb of disk space , the rest is wasted . One million one-byte files will therefore use 4Gb of space on disk . Files hidden from the Finder include almost the entire Unix subsystem , many low-level config files , virtual memory , sleep images , and the system caches . Do n't even think about deleting them - your computer will not boot , and the caches will simply get refilled . On the plus side , the Mac OS takes care of itself quite well . You the user , have absolutely no need to concern yourself with the inner workings , nor do you need 3rd-party utilities to do any maintenance ( most of them do n't do anything effective except reduce your bank balance ) . A very easy way to reclaim a lot of space is get an external and move your iPhoto and iTunes libraries there .
The root CAs are stored in : / System/Library/Keychains / SystemCACertificates.keychain / System/Library/Keychains / SystemRootCertificates.keychain Yes , these are OS X keychain files which are opaque , though not necessarily proprietary . You could theoretically use OS X 's Keychain Services APIs to get at the certificate data inside the keychain file , but that might be overkill . If you want a tangible copy of any of the root CA certificates , just select it in Keychain Access , and drag them to the Desktop to make a copy of them in . cer format . ( You can also use Quick Look in the Finder to preview the certificate info ) .
The " recording " label usually appears when you press ' q ' key to record a macro . It is not recording what you are typing , it is recording a command sequence to be re-used for later use . See : <URL>
end question
start question
How can I open an application when a secondary monitor is connected ?
Take a look at the free/open source app <URL> . You can trigger different actions based on context-sensitive rules , including launching an app in response to connecting a display .
Hold down the decrease screen brightness button at the top of the keyboard , it will get dimmer and dimmer , and at the end jump to a black screen ( the screen 's light will actually be off ) . To turn the screen back just press the increase screen brightness button .
Gui Method If you want something to run when a user logs in , the easiest way is to use the GUI . You can Go to the screen , and add the item there by clicking the symbol dragging and dropping the onto the pane In the dock , bring up the context menu for an app , select , then select Launchd method If you want to launch something that is not a , or you want to have more control over launching it , such as : at a certain time or at a specified interval continuously re-launching if it crashes not related to user login as a function of network access only run when another process is running when a file is added to a folder etc. . then you want to use the technical solution that is . The easiest way to set up a config file is to use a tool to help . At the time of writing the most popular method is <URL> ( which has an older free version available from SourceForge ) , or the <URL> tool . Hand Coding If you do n't want to use Lingon or the PList Website and only want to use the raw tools available on the system , you can write your own by hand Here is my launchd script to run SomeApp continuously after the system boots ( independent of a user logging in ) . It is in / System/Library/LaunchAgents / and called SomeApp.restart.plist . If it is run based on a user login , it could be stored in ~ / Library/LaunchAgents / Load it once with The option will launch the application the first time launchctl runs this . The option will re-launch the application if it crashes . The will run it at a certain time . Presumably this is mutually exclusive with the previous two , but is included to show what can be done with Launchctl will run this after reboots . There are many additional options that can be found by experimenting with Lingon or by reading the man pages for , , , , etc. .
Not presently . iOS multitasking however is quite different than say the multitasking in Android or Mac OS X . The app unless it specifically is using one of the 7 methods to run in the background is " frozen " and wo n't consume any resources until it 's brought back to the forefront . Essentially the fast app switching feature as part of iOS 4.0 is a large part of why you saw so many apps being updated to work with iOS 4.0 multitasking .
No not really , when you open a program whatever core process it calls into action are run every time . One of which will , in your case , checks on the various permissions it has to make or accept outgoing/incoming connections . The act of double clicking and opening the application ( even after choosing to deny such privileges ) will overwrite/trash your past decisions to DENY incoming/outgoing connections simply because you gave it permission to open ( not when you ACCEPT though - in this case any previously accepting connections will not continue to ask for your permission ) . Unless there is a setting within the application 's " Preferences " or you change some code within the " Contents " of its bundle then it is highly likely that it will prompt you every time . BTW these permissions requests are meant to alert and pop up every time to keep users from making " permanent decisions " ( AKA turning off popup notification and permission requests ) . Without the popup requests , switching permissions settings back and forth would become a much more difficult task and more than likely need the help of a genius bar rep to switch them back and forth ( for the not-so-savvy users at least ) .
Take a look at the free/open source app <URL> . You can trigger different actions based on context-sensitive rules , including launching an app in response to connecting a display .
If you need to logout so that another user can use the computer , you can enable Fast User Switching . The other user will be able to use the Mac , while your program still runs .
<URL> ( previously known as KeyRemap4MacBook ) Save a file like this as <URL> : Note that the field uses <URL> so , for example , any spaces in the path or filename should be encoded with . Alfred 2 If you have the Powerpack for Alfred 2 , you can create a workflow like this : Hotkeys have a short delay by default , but you can reduce it by changing the trigger behavior : Other applications that support assigning shortcuts to opening applications <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Automator services There has been a bug since 10.7 where the keyboard shortcuts for Automator services do n't always work until you hover over the services menu from the menu bar . There is also a relatively long delay before services are run , and the keyboard shortcuts for services do n't work when the frontmost application does n't have a services menu .
Microsoft has released a version of <URL> It is available in the App Store for users with OS X 10.9 or later .
There is a free utility called <URL> that helps you clean out the unnecessary apps associated with certain file types : Open-With Manager lets you edit the list of file types a given application thinks it can open . This is most useful with regard to the Finder 's " Open with " context menu ; and it also affects the way applications behave when you drag files to their Dock symbols . Behind the scenes , Open-With Manager works in a way that 's quite similar to <URL> . And to be perfectly honest , Open-With Manager is in fact Service Scrubber 's well-hidden , slightly older twin brother . That 's why the restrictions detailed for Service Scrubber in <URL> apply to Open-With Manager as well . When running on Mac OS X 10.5 or later , Open-With Manager will not edit signed applications . I use this on Snow Leopard , but I have n't tested it on Lion . Also , it may take a while for the Open-With menus to reflect the changes made in Open-With Manager , so try waiting or just reboot .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
As long as you can find them with AirPort Utility you will be able to use them as AirPlay device . I 've used the same setup and you can wirelessly connect them and they will still function as AirPlay device ( they can even make your network more powerful ) Please also check <URL> and <URL> To make your answer complete : you can do this with both versions . If you have no internet connected , you will still be able to let the Express function as Accesspoint . You just wo n't have access to the internet via it , but that 's not weird as you do n't have an input ;)
Yes . Intel calls it " SpeedStep . " Variable CPU clock speeds that adjust to conserve power based on demand . The feature is engaged whilst the device is on battery power . All Apple products support this feature ( it 's actually supported at the hardware level and the operating system 's kernel ) but since desktop devices do n't have batteries , you 'll never experience it on anything that is n't mobile . Your MacBook Air supports SpeedStep , as does the iPhone , iPad , and the traditional MacBook Pro . More info on SpeedStep : <URL>
System Preferences , Accounts , Login Options and tick " Show input menu in login window " you 'll then be able to change it in the screen saver password window as well In OSX 10.7 Lion , " Accounts " is " Users &amp; Groups " . The setting " Show input menu in login window " really ought to be active by default when plural language input sources are enabled , though .
Generally , it does not affect , but there are some apps that do n't properly work when you do it . The only way to know is trying it . In the worst case , you can revert the changes without issues . About accessing keychain , same thing , usually you wo n't have problems . I have n't tested auto-update . I usually did it with old versions of apps , to have both old and new ones .
Yes , you can achieve your desired behavior without disabling Messages on your Mac . If you turn off notifications for Messages from within System Preferences , you will still receive the messages , but will not be notified that they came in . You can turn notifications off on the following screen . Simply click on " None " , and deselect all the checkboxes , as illustrated below :
There is no need to jailbreak . An application like <URL> will do the trick , if you have a MacOS X computer . Just make sure you turn off encryption for the backup .
Since <URL> you could use a cronjob to just clear the file every now and then . For that you will need the Terminal . If you are not familiar , <URL> . Use the following command to open the crontab file ( just call if you want to use vim instead ) : Insert the following and save the file ( with Ctrl-X - > y - > enter ) . You must change the file to the log file Let me explain : means that on every full hour the command will be executed ( unless it 's turned off of course ) . See <URL> for more info . The command being executed is basically saying " redirect nothing to the file " effectively truncating it to 0 bytes . You may recognize it from . FYI : The cron daemon will automatically be started by launchd if a cronfile exists .
One of my favorite tools for doing this is <URL> which is " donationware . " You can adjust each monitor separately , and set keyboard shortcuts for them as well . If you want a command line solution , I found <URL> which compiled cleanly using : ( You 'll need Xcode to be installed to compile it . If you want a precompiled version , mine is available here <URL> ) It will let you set the brightness for either monitor . UPDATE : Note that this answer is several years old . The link above is now 404 but there is a newer tool available at http://github.com/nriley/brightness or ` brew install screenbrightness `
You can use the terminal : The hidden file are hidden by adding a dot in the beginning of the file name . Or with the good old GUI method : Launch the application you wish to use to edit or view the hidden file . Select ' Open ' from the application 's File menu . An Open Dialog box will display . With the dialog box as the front-most window ( you can click once in the dialog box to make sure it 's in front ) , press command + shift + . The dialog box now will display any hidden files or folders within its list items . You can toggle between the hidden files and folders being displayed by pressing command + shift + . again .
end question
start question
Is there any app to copy Ctrl + C any text from Desktop ( Windows ) and paste Ctrl + V in iphone at anywhere ?
Have you tried <URL> ? It is a little more constrained than any box , but it works .
From my experience , and at least with Sparrow for iPhone 1.3.2 build 507.11 , All does not refer to FROM+TO+SUBJECT , but all available fields , including the email body .
I looked around for something like <URL> a while back but everything I found was pretty horrid . In the end I decided to just use and on the command line .
Yes - this is a per blog preference . I found <URL> ... Double click the blog in the main window to open settings . Click the " Editing " pane . Find the " Preview Defaults " at the bottom of that section . Here 's a picture showing that you can choose to have it off or remember the last state as well as the default option of opening .
A cursory look at the iTunes Store reveals <URL> ( iTunes Store Link ) . Since you can not compile on the iPad itself , this app leverages a web service ( <URL> ) in order to run the program and return the results to your device . The app is USD$ 3 and a universal binary ( iPhone + iPad ) . The web service appears to be free , if not just a little ugly :) .
I think I have figured this out ( EDIT : Confirmed - this was the problem ) . ctrl + F1 apparently turns keyboard access on/off , which disables the other shortcuts . So I have now disabled this shortcut and hopefully the others will no longer get accidentally disabled . If this happens to you , try ctrl + F1 to re-enable . Also you can disable this in : System Preferences Keyboard Keyboard &amp; Text Input
Pulling the RAM seems a reliable way to constrain that resource . Running in virtualization should help if you can tell your preferred stack to allocate less threads or cores , but I would question your main assumption that these are the critical bottlenecks for making your simulations valuable . Why not let the simulations run full speed and just measure where the bottlenecks on the Mac arise . You can measure VM paging , IO statistics and time to run each job on your mac and then run a similar test on the production hardware . If the code is 2 to 1 faster on the Mac and you do n't have paging or IO contention , that should scale quite well to the measurements on the Linux hardware . I totally get the wish to control this and eliminate variables , but since systems need to be balanced everywhere - what is a bottleneck on one system / architecture is often not the same bottleneck on another .
If you 're specifically asking if you can maintain your current data plan when ordering via Apple , you can do that . Alternatively , you 'll also be able to change your data plan to other plans that are currently offered by your carrier . Part of the ordering process ( when ordering through anyone : Apple , a carrier , Best Buy , etc. ) is selecting your plan , and that part of the process contacts your carrier 's systems . On the first day people can preorder , this results in the carriers ' systems being crushed due to all the demand . Once your carrier 's system has been contacted , the store you 're buying from then knows if you 're eligible for subsidized contract pricing or if you 'll have to pay unsubsidized pricing . The store also knows your current plan , and so is able to offer that as an option if you have a grandfathered plan that is n't available to new subscribers . Ergo , the process for buying an iPhone will be pretty similar no matter where you buy it from . Pick a store based on whatever criteria you wish : availability of the specific model you want , convenience of store location , store loyalty plan , etc. .
You can select snippets of text and drag them to the Desktop , thus creating a Text Clipping file that you can drag back to another app .
You can download the Display Menu app from the <URL> I use it all the time . Best of all - it is free !
Mission Control handles window selection and visualization . Open that preference pane and look at the Application Windows keyboard shortcut . Control down arrow ( or in the trackpad preferences enable App Exposé - three finger swipe down ) to activate the picker . <URL> From there you can select a window or arrow key left right to the window you desire . command + [ or ] will switch to the next / previous window command + { or } will switch to the next / previous tab within a window Some applications - terminal is a notable one - define menu items to select the next window in turn . If they do , you can usually override the keyboard shortcut if you do n't like the ones they chose by default . Apple 's window manager is n't a perfect fit for the design idiom of windows , but in this case , it 's pretty close once you re-train your expectations to having all the windows one tap away .
Yes , they can be used interchangeably . The two-finger tap is a shortcut employed by OS X for more convenience / accessibility , however , it has exactly the same function as the control-click .
Go to Settings > Notifications > Stock Widget and turn it Off . Notifications for all apps that can display them are managed in Settings . Two built-in apps , Stocks and Weather , get exceptional treatment and show in Notification Center as widgets . In the Notifications Settings , they are listed as Stock Widget and the Weather Widget . To prevent an app from displaying in Notification Center , click the app in the list and make sure the option " Notification Center " is set to off .
Doing Command + Tab will let you go through all the running applications , even if it 's hidden . More tricks are discussed at <URL> .
Try the <URL> first . It will move everything you need from your old mac . ( OS 10.6.8 or later ) Many applications have data in the / Library/Application Support folder or the ~ / Library/Application Support folder as well as prefeferences and other scattered support files that would all need to be moved .
<URL> will remove extraneous languages and architectures and is open source .
If you goto the Software Update preferences , you can set it to daily , monthly or weekly . Obviously , this a very basic update scheduler . If you want to update weekly at this time just goto preferences and select weekly , now . You can also do it using an Apple script + softwareupdater as described <URL> .
The keyboard shortcut you 're looking for is ⌘ + ⌥ + ⎋ , alternatively known as command + option + escape . This will bring up the Force Quit Applications window ( see screenshot below ) .
Have you tried sending via email ? I think all carriers have an email formatted address for their phone numbers . Here 's a random Google result with quite a bit of info : <URL> Based on the comments , it appears to work with MMS , not just SMS . There 's also a few services suggested , there .
While it may not work in all applications there is a way of doing this for a large number . Certainly it works in , and but not Microsoft Word , where you have to do it within the application . All you need to do is open > > and select in the left hand pane . Click on in the right hand pane and the at the bottom . In the field enter then click in the field and press command-V . Then click on You will now see that your shortcut is added . When you open , for example , you will see that no longer has a shortcut ( you could add one using the same method ) and right next to in the menu is your new working shortcut,command-V . Oh , frabjous joy !
end question
start question
Can Lion be configured to use the three finger drag gesture anywhere in the window ?
Three-finger drag is n't a gesture for " move the window " ; it 's a gesture for " click and drag . " While there might ( now or someday ) be third-party software that could accomplish your desired behavior , it falls beyond the scope of a simple hidden preference .
Pressing the shortcuts for changing desktops while dragging a window should still work , but the shortcuts have to be enabled in System Preferences . <URL> supports for example assigning ⌃ ⇧ → to moving a window to the next desktop .
I outlined how to do this at <URL> but I will summarize it for you : set your account to autologin create a login item ( using launchd ) which calls : / System/Library/CoreServices / Menu \ Extras/User . menu/Contents/Resources / CGSession - suspend NOTE : that command should be ONE LONG LINE not two lines with a line break/line feed . A more thorough explanation is available at TUAW , so I wo n't repeat it all here , because those are the relevant details . What it does : The idea is very simple , your account is set to auto-login , so all of your login items will run , however , one of those login items ( the CGSession command listed above ) will tell the loginwindow to appear . If you have used Fast User Switching before , you will be familiar with how it works . " But what if someone holds down the shift key to stop autolaunching ? " In my testing , that will also prevent the user from being automatically logged in . Is this 100 % as safe as not using auto-login ? Probably not , but I 'd consider it close to 99.999 % as safe . That said , use at your own risk , etc. .
Instead of trying to drag the account ( s ) into the desired order in Preferences , drag the account 's mailbox to the desired order from the mailbox list in the sidebar of Mail.app main window . Open the inbox and drag the desired sub-inbox to the top . The position in the other places like the trash and drafts boxes will follow . Then quit Mail.app and open it again to make the changes take effect . Whichever account 's mailbox is at the top of the list will be the default mailbox . If an account mailbox is at the top , but the account is not the default , drag it down and then back up to the top . This will reset the order and establish the top one as the default .
I would suggest you set up a hot corner to show the desktop ( this is what I do ) : Open System Preferences Click Mission Control Click the " Hot Corners ... " button at the bottom Set the corner you want to use for " Desktop " ( I use the top right ) Click OK Now you can move a file from a Finder window to the desktop with just the mouse : Click and drag the file you want to move to the hot corner you set up , which will show the desktop Drop the file on the desktop
It can be enabled via System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > [ Unlock ] > Login Options > Show fast user switching menu as ...
Apparently Apple Watch has Airplane Mode , which turns off both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi . [ To ] Turn on Airplane Mode . Swipe up on the watch face , swipe to the Settings glance , then tap the Airplane Mode button . The Connected status at the top of the screen changes to Disconnected . Or open the Settings app settings icon , then tap Airplane Mode . When Airplane Mode is on , you 'll see [ Airplane mode icon ] at the top of the screen . Source : <URL> .
Multi-touch gestures are n't built in to Windows . you 'll need to use third party utilities to get these sort of functions . Check out <URL> for instructions on how to get the various mac functions working in Win7 .
Yes - if the enterprise entity is the one distributing the pass to end users , then you should be fine using that certificate to sign Passbook items . Any Apple generated code signing certificate should be sufficient to fulfill the requirements . If you are concerned after reading this , a quick call to developer support might help alleviate any concerns you have . Apple documents this at <URL> and the version 1.1 of this document states : Use of Apple-issued Certificates All passes need to be signed with an Apple-issued certificate to be recognized by Passbook . Passes should only be signed by the entity that will be distributing the pass under its own name , trademark , or brand , and that entity 's information should match the information on the back of the pass .
The best way to do this is with one of the more obscure settings in BetterTouchTool It works like this : A three fingered right swipe brings up the application switcher . Lift one finger to covert it into a two finger swipe and slide to whichever application you want . It becomes an incredible natural and fluid gesture The beauty of the gesture is that it works anywhere on the screen and you do n't have to position the mouse over the icons . In BTT assign the three finger swipe right to the application switcher . In BTT Action Settings - > Stuff ( App Switcher ) - > Use special application switcher This answers the problem that bisko and senseful had above and avoids the last click or the necessity to be over the icon . Single best gesture in my ' gesture vocabulary ' and I have gestures for everything !
Three-finger drag is n't a gesture for " move the window " ; it 's a gesture for " click and drag . " While there might ( now or someday ) be third-party software that could accomplish your desired behavior , it falls beyond the scope of a simple hidden preference .
I would like to know if every YouTube video is playable on iPad2 . No , not every single video but most YouTube videos are playable on iOS devices . It is not easy to determine which videos are playable other than just trying to play them . There are a few reasons why YouTube videos may not be playable : old videos may have not been converted to H. 264 ( remember before the iPhone , YouTube was all Flash ) or the owner of the video may not want it to be viewed on mobile devices or embedded in websites . Further does iPad2 play . avi or . mp3 or . flv videos ? Kind of . It will handle mp3 and PCM stereo audio in . avi , but not flv . For example can an iPad2 play these videos - <URL> <URL> I can confirm the YouTube video you linked to works fine . The other link has a bunch of different formats but most of them are not playable . The flash links will not work . Usually mov links will work but these do n't look like they are H. 264 and do not work . Usually 3gp works as well but I could only open it in OPlayer . If iPad ca n't play these then is there an app which makes it possible ? <URL> does n't work for every codec , but it does bridge the gap sometimes . And it has a free lite version so it is worth the download . I think you should take a look at the <URL> audio and video formats supported by the iPad 2 : Video mirroring and video out support : Up to 1080p with Apple Digital AV Adapter or Apple VGA Adapter ( cables sold separately ) Video out support at 576p and 480p with Apple Component AV Cable ; 576i and 480i with Apple Composite AV Cable Video formats supported : H. 264 video up to 720p , 30 frames per second , Main Profile level 3.1 with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps , 48kHz , stereo audio in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats ; MPEG-4 video , up to 2.5 Mbps , 640 by 480 pixels , 30 frames per second , Simple Profile with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps per channel , 48kHz , stereo audio in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats ; Motion JPEG ( M-JPEG ) up to 35 Mbps , 1280 by 720 pixels , 30 frames per second , audio in ulaw , PCM stereo audio in . avi file format
I hope the <URL> of <URL> does n't disapprove of me using his app to answer this , but here are the reasons why helpd will run . ( the <URL> of help ) It 's hard to tell if this is one of the processes that needs to run a bit the first time it starts and then it will happily update itself more rapidly when needed ( like / Applications being changed ) as well as early every Sunday AM . The virtual memory system should keep the RAM fine , so unless you see it constantly - it 's just taking the RAM it needs to serve your help menu with fresh and up to date documents . You can also disable that launchd job if it 's causing you grief until you can isolate why .
I believe I figured out the difference : Dragging : Double tap and hold to begin dragging . Release the mouse . Depending on the amount of time that has passed , moving the mouse will do one of the following : Brief delay : moving the mouse continues the dragging , essentially behaving the exact same way as drag lock . The cycle is then repeated once you release your finger . Longer delay : dragging is stopped . Dragging &amp; Drag Lock : Double tap and hold to begin dragging . Release the mouse . Moving the mouse will continue dragging . Tap once to stop the dragging . It 's that brief delay that was throwing me off . There does n't seem to be any way to customize the length of this delay . One thing that does help , though , is figuring out exactly how long this delay is . One method for figuring this out is the following : Drag an icon from the dock a tiny bit so that if you were to release it , it would n't be deleted . Release the mouse . Observe how long it takes for the icon to move back to its place . That is the exact amount of minimum time that you should wait when you are finished dragging something .
Looks like the answer is Yes . From Apple Forums : The AirPort Express can only " extend " a wireless signal ... using wireless only ... from another AirPort Extreme , Time Capsule , or AirPort Express . <URL>
Or you could follow the advice of Red Sweater <URL> and use AppleScript + FastScript/Sparkle . If you follow the link everything is explained in details .
First , open the trash can by clicking on it in the Dock . In the Finder , press Command-shift-G ( go to folder ) and go to ~ / . Trash In the Finder window for . Trash , click the proxy icon in the title bar of the window and drag it to the sidebar . You then have a trash folder in your sidebar . To empty the trash from the sidebar , open Automator and create an application . As the sole action in the application , select " Run AppleScript " and use this AppleScript : Save the application as " Empty Trash " , and drag it to the sidebar .
As they removed the option to load a picture from disk in the Contacts.app , you can instead drag it from iPhoto or your harddrive into the contact you edit .
2 things : 1 ) They are not " made for " PCs , they may simply come pre-formatted . If they are USB , they will almost certainly work with any OS known to man that supports USB 2 ) NTFS support is read only , you can not write ( without 3rd party software ) but you can format as Fat 32 or EXFAT etc and have the drive be read/write by almost any OS including Windows/Mac/Linux etc /
Uncheck the box : I found it unnatural , too , since they flipped it . I think they 're going for consistency between iPads and mice .
end question
start question
Can I install an App that is not available in my country 's iTunes appstore ?
A common way to work around the cross-border restrictions of the iTunes store is by using pre-paid iTunes cards . These are often available on eBay and you can redeem them in the iTunes store for the country of origin ( assuming you want US items , you need to buy a pre-paid card from the US . )
Apps are submitted as . ipa files which is really just a zipped container of a . app file . In fact , you can simply unzip a . ipa file to see its true size . Apps in the App Store are listed by their compressed size , and will need to be uncompressed after installing . As of iOS 6 , updates to apps only include files that have been changed . As of iOS 7 , updates to apps only include changes to changed files . So , I guess to answer the question directly , for any given app you would need : Free space to store the compressed app update file , free space to store the uncompressed app update file , and space currently being used by the app and all its data/caches . <URL>
This works for both iTunes Apps and the App Store on the Mac . Log into your account via the App Store account link . Look for iTunes in the Cloud Click the View Hidden Purchases link . Select Unhide next to the App you want back in the list . Items are n't deleted from the list , just merely hidden .
To confirm that my solution was to use an excellent 3rd party tool , although costly ... <URL> It managed to extract the data from my iPhone 4 . Because the iPhone was trying to update , I forced it into DFU mode which this application uses to get the data . My next step is to do a restore , which I do n't mind doing now ! :D
Sounds like Rogue Ameoba 's <URL> should do what you want : With Fission 's streamlined audio editing , you can quickly copy , paste and trim audio , as well as split files . Fission also works with compressed MP3 and AAC formats to edit without the quality loss caused by other editors . Get perfect quality audio when editing natively in the MP3 , AAC , Apple Lossless , AIFF and WAV formats .
The App Store does n't offer support for paid app updates . You can release new features as in-app purchases for the current app ( as @Jason said ) . If , however , you want to charge for a new version of the app itself , then you need to release the new version as its own app and remove the previous version from sale . A common convention is to name the new app " MyApp 2 " ( with the " 2 " as part of the name ) to distinguish it , since its actual version number will be 1 since it 's a new app . Yes , it 's a little confusing ... One issue to be aware of with this approach is that , because MyApp 1 and MyApp 2 are separate apps , users of MyApp 1 wo n't get any kind of notification that MyApp 2 is available , since it 's not an " update " of that app but rather a separate thing entirely .
From what I 've noticed with universal apps , and also with iPhone only apps between my devices is that sometimes an update might come one day to one device and the next day to another and at the third day the last one gets it . Might be that Apple does this so their servers wont be overloaded when everybody updates the same app at the same time . You should also check that you 've released the update to all platforms , not only iPhones .
If the problem you 're experiencing is that the iPad connections trigger a New iPad activation dialog , you can turn this off by typing this terminal command when iTunes is not running : You can turn on the new iPad Activation dialog with this command : Remember , iTunes can not be running when either of these commands is run .
Whole disks , no , but partitions , yes . While the Disk Utility GUI application can not , the command-line utility <URL> . First , come up with a password ( such as ) . I believe this is not tied to your login password , unlike encrypting the boot volume . Then , find out the identifier for the target volume , e.g. : Then , use , like so :
You can unlock the disk while booted from other partitions . You 'll be prompted for a password when mounting the disk . You can choose to save the password in your keychain if you prefer . Also , you can just right-click on the volume in the Finder and select , it 's the same as using Disk Utility .
Awesome , I figured it out . Run this command , which rebuilds LaunchServices : And everything should be back to good ! Immediately after running , the App Store allowed me to re-purchase the app . Source : <URL>
If you hold command and quickly tap tab you will cycle between your two most recently used applications without bringing up the heads up display . If you want to use a third party app <URL> has options to ignore minimized windows .
This can happen with any file type , not just Podcasts , and I 've suffered from this a few times when I move my iTunes library about , especially with TV Shows . The only solution I found was to move the episodes out of the iTunes Media folder , then use the Add to Library in iTunes to add them back in . This forces them to be added to the . itl even if there 's already a malformed entry for that file .
You should be able to do this using shared libraries , which would probably be the easiest way and not cause any problems with permissions or anything like that , however it would probably end up with number of separate libraries rather than just having a one large library . UPDATE : Having had a bit of a look into the shared libraries feature it could be a decent option if combined with iTunes DJ - which can be turned on in preferences if currently off . Essentially you would require everyone to turn sharing on for their iTunes library ( or specific playlists ) then have one of your computers acting as a master which has iTunes DJ setup . You can then add tracks from any of the libraries and have requests and votes for next tracks sent via the Remote app for iPhone or just shouted across the office . May still not be quite what you 're after , but essentially uses features already available in iTunes rather than a 3rd Party app to do it for you . -- You could try having one folder for music and all linking to it , but you may hit permission issues or DRM or something silly like that . <URL> This tells you how to move the library to a shared folder for one computer to allow multiple users to connect to it , the actual library is still per user , so you may get duplicate files or have to update the library if new files are added . In theory this would allow multiple computers to connect to one collection of music , add to it and play the files others have added . Though my theory is untested and may be flawed ( like all good theories ) . On a different note : I was able to have one library ( so viewing the same apps , podcasts , music etc. without the need to update it each time you logged in or downloaded new stuff ) for multiple users on one computer by copying the whole iTunes folder to the shared folder and then adding an alias to the shared iTunes folder in the Music folder for each users Home folder - which is a bit of a convoluted sentence - which may be of some help , but probably not as the library gets locked when it 's accessed by a user , so i ca n't imagine it 'd help for multiple computers . Just another way of doing things . Hope that helps in some way , let me know id it 's absolute guff though .
To change stores you can do so on the iTunes Store : Click on your Account in the iTunes Store to go to your Account Page . Click " Change Country or Region " . Choose your Country or Region : Another alternative is to use Apple 's <URL> and change your address - next time you use iTunes it will ask you to change your region and verify your address details .
The installation disk coming with a computer is for that computer model only , and I would not expect this to work . If your MacBook runs 10.5 you are eligible for the 10.6 upgrade for $ 29 . I can highly recommend it , if nothing else , for the fixes in Time Machine .
Let 's differentiate a user being one individual from a user being a single UNIX user account . As for the purpose of limiting privileges to the computer account and not for the individual operating it , creating two separate user accounts in Mac OS X is overkill and if you ask me rather impractical . Even an administrator account lacks the privileges to modify anything system critical without authenticating as the root user , which requires manually re-entering your password . The only significant extra privilege an administrator account has is the ability to switch to the root ( privileged ) account . If you are familiar with the command in the shell , this is very much the same thing . You would create a regular user account as opposed to an administrator account if you want to limit privileges of the individual operating the computer , for example with kids or employees .
You can check the version of Messenger installed by going here : > > > > Version will be displayed next to app icon . And you can check the latest version of Messenger in the App Store by going to its page and check the version . If they are the same , you are good to go . If not , I suggest closing App Store , restarting your iPhone and then checking App Store . It will probably says and you can do so .
The recovery partition on your original disk was the only supported method until the <URL> was made available . The bulk of this answer was written before the official steps were published - so I would recommend the Recovery Disk Assistant even though HT4718 steps help understand what is happening under the hood . <URL> The easiest is to get a drive enclosure or adapter and re-run the Lion installer from the Recovery HD and install Lion onto the new SSD . It likely wo n't matter if the drive with the recovery HD is on an external bus or an internal bus , but I would keep the original drive inside the mac until you have Lion installed on your SSD connected to an external port . Boot off the SSD to test it and run migration from the internal drive to the SSD before doing swapping the drives inside your mac . It still boggles my mind that any mac will ship without some sort of reinstall media . Look in the center of the box , under where the mac sat . Call apple if your media is missing so they can ship it to you or point out how they want you to reinstall the OS on a new drive . Your mac 's hard drive is listed as a consumer replaceable part , so they have to provide you with the steps to do that .
After a bit of research ( in the stores themselves , using Google , and in the Apple Developer Program resources ) , I 'm rather sure no list of these is available from Apple themselves or from any third party . I found the best ways to find the apps tagged as " Essentials , " is to look in these places : Both the Mac App Store and the iTunes App Store have a link on their front page called " New to the ( Mac ) App Store ? " Most apps listed there , which are not games , have the " Essentials " badge . It 's not the way to find them all though , as e.g. the WolframAlpha app you mentioned is not listed on that page in the iTunes Store . There are also some apps which do n't have the badge , e.g. Shazam is tagged as " Editors ' Choice , " but not " Essentials " in the Mac App Store . The iTunes App Store also has a link " App Collections . " Although the page this link leads to is titled " Essentials App Collections , " quite a number of the apps listed in the collections do n't have the " Essentials " badge . On the other hand , you can find a lot of " Essentials " this way . My impression is the difference between the " Essentials " tag and e.g. " Editors ' Choice " is not very well defined , and just picked by a specific Apple store editor . And I noticed some of those apps may be only essential to a very specific crowd . E.g. the djay 2 app , also tagged " Essentials , " is most definitely the best and most popular DJ app for the iPad out there , but it 's only essential to a select group . In the end , although there is no definitive list , going though the various collections made by Apple editors , will lead you to a lot of " Essential " apps .
end question
start question
How do I report a spam/fake radio station in the list of iTunes internet radio ?
You can use <URL> or contact Apple Support for the iTunes store to register that opinion / information about their music service .
Have you upgraded to Lion ? As per <URL> it seems the extra visualizers require 32-bit mode : Right click on iTunes.app in your Applications folder and click " Get Info " . In the window that appears , click " Open in 32-bit mode " at the bottom of the " General " pane . This is a work-around , not a fix , and I have filed a bug report with Apple .
Taken from <URL> support article : OS X Recovery includes a built in set of utilities as part of the Recovery System . To start your computer from Recovery , restart your Mac and hold down the Command key and the R key ( Command-R ) . Press and hold these keys until the Apple logo appears . The recovery feature is limited to OS X Lion , Mountain Lion , Mavericks , Yosemite , and El Capitan .
If you normally sort your overall library by album , you can right click on the currently playing song in a playlist and select Show In Playlist - > Music . This will take you directly to that song in your music library .
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
pppd automatically registers the PPP network interface upon successful registration ! From my experience performing this on OSX Mavericks 10.9.1 , the / etc/ppp directory starts out empty . Populate / etc/ppp I had to populate it myself , and I did so from my Ubuntu installation which was already configured properly . These are the files I happened to import based on my needs : / etc/ppp/options / etc/ppp/pap-secrets / etc/chatscripts ( optional ) - you only import this if you are using one of these chatscripts yourself . Delete Default Route before running pppd It might help to remove the default route before running pppd to assist in enforcing that the PPP connection becomes the default connection to the internet : note : I found this more of an issue on my Ubuntu installation , but have n't had to this on OSX . Still here are the commands : OSX command : Other Linux : When you disconnect pppd and reconnect your regular internet , the route will be restored .
I 've got a multi-AirPort network set up , and only the AirPort that handles DHCP will allow me to see names . Under the DHCP Clients tab , there is a column for " Client Name " : I 'd suspect that you 're correct in thinking that by running in bridge mode , it wo n't show this information .
If you setup <URL> and make sure that your router , firewall etc all are passing TCP port 548 , you 'll be able to connect from the DynDNS host/domain you create . AFP over the public Internet is n't a great solution for anything other than very minor , lightweight file transfers , however , and if you 're expecting more than a few concurrent users you should really consider a better protocol , such as WebDAV or ( S ) FTP , much less Dropbox , S3 , Box.com , etc. .
To share your Mac internet connection with your iPad do the following ( <URL> ) On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Bluetooth > Turn Bluetooth On . Turn Bluetooth On on your iPad . Your iPad should show up as a new device in the Bluetooth preferences of your Mac . Click Pair . A six digit number will appear on your Mac . This same number should show up on your iPad . Confirm the connection by tapping " Pair " on your iPad . On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Sharing Click on " Internet Sharing " from the menu on the left . Do not check the box yet ! Select : Share your connection from " Wi-Fi " Check : To computers using " Bluetooth PAN " Check the " Internet Sharing " box from the menu on the left When asked if you 're sure you want to share your connection , select " Start " share mac internet with iPad At this point , you should be able to get online on your iPad . Obviously , for this to work , your Mac will have to be awake and connected to the internet .
I find it easiest to use the settings app on iOS : General About Diagnostics &amp; Usage Diagnostics &amp; Usage Data scroll to the crash you care about and tap it select all , copy the text Now you can paste the report wherever you please . Email , <URL> , notes , <URL> , or wherever else you like to store the text for submitting a <URL> . You can also get at the logs after syncing from iTunes or Xcode - but getting it when the crash happens works best for me in most cases .
You can see all purchases made through the iOS App Store within iTunes ( on OSX or Windows ) : Start iTunes Log into the Store in the Store menu Show Account Details ( in the Store menu as well ) Shopping Statistics ( do n't know how it 's called in the english version , it 's the third block from the top )
First , in System Preferences , under the Keyboard tab of the Keyboard Preference Pane , be sure Show Keyboard and Character Viewers in menu bar is checked . Then , from the Keyboard menu in the menu bar , select Show Character Viewer . In the Character viewer pane , select Emoji . When you select an Emoji , on the right side of the pane , you get a large graphic of the Emoji and a text explanation of the shape .
I found an app ( paid ) that will do the above : <URL> . Disclaimer : I have n't tried it yet .
There 's no way to do that , alas . <URL> shows an AppleScript that can make playlists from all complete albums , but if you have a lot of albums , it might be overwhelming .
According an <URL> : You can add a featured station to My Stations by tapping the Info ( i ) button , then tapping the Plus ( + ) button to the right of " Add to My Stations . "
Albums > Faces - the pending list should appear at the bottom of the page , if there are any new faces to tag . <URL> <URL>
To remove an item , just swipe your finger to left over that particular entry . A red " delete " button will pop up .
Select the List tab : Click on the disclosure arrow to expand the subscription ( if it 's not already expanded ) : Click on the download button at the top of the list : Click OK to start downloading all episodes :
Steve There is no method on either iPad or iPhone to move an item between folders .
For that particular case you could select the table and then open the inspector where in the " Object Placement " check the " Inline " and further down in the same preference " Object causes wrap " should be greyed . Select the rightest case where you get adjustment to the right . Now go back to your table and drag the edge from the left side to suit your text indent .
end question
start question
iMessage sync with the computer ?
What happens in your proposed case is that if you delete messages from the iPhone , and then power on your Mac , the Mac will not receive those deleted messages . EDIT : Well , folks , I stand corrected . I certainly believed the above to be the case , but my tests proved otherwise . I sent several messages from multiple devices to other devices that were powered down . Each message was deleted before the recipients were powered back on . Although there was a significant lag in reception ( one took nearly ten minutes ) , all messages that were sent were received , even those that were deleted . Several of the messages were out of sync , which does n't surprise me given the flakiness of the iMessage system during its infancy . However , to the original question , the answer is that messages , deleted or otherwise , eventually find their destination , even to devices that were powered down when those messages were transmitted . ( Hat tip to tubedogg for the correction . )
You can use <URL> for iPhone and iPad instead of Apple 's Reminders . It syncs perfectly with Google Tasks , supports alerts and location reminders . It has very good reviews in the App Store .
<URL> - look for Apple USB to dock connector in the store . It also comes with most chargers and dock accessories if you want a bundle .
If I am right you are asking about the red squiggly lines that appear under mis spelt words ? The spell check is a native feature within iOS , rather than the app . So if you type in the app you will get the auto correct . You can use Pages to spell check as this has the red lines but you ca n't put back into drop box . QuickOffice does sync with Dropbox , but does n't spell check , <URL> Documents to Go only offers dropbox sync with it 's premium version which was misled by it 's <URL> . But sadly right now there is no way to spell check office docs , I guess you can edit them and then open on a computer to use the function on the desktop . <URL> so you may want to wait for this ( if it can do one better than pages and sync )
I guess the message is for security purposes ( citation ? ) and for some reason it turned my iMessage off . Turning it back on fixed all my issues .
Things you 've purchased off the iTunes Store can be transferred off your iPhone by right clicking on your iPhone in iTunes and choosing ' Transfer Purchases ' . You might need to Authorise your computer first by clicking the Store Menu , and then choosing Authorise This Computer . For your non-iTunes Store content I 'd recommend <URL> ( read it backwards ! ) which lets you copy music from your iPhone or iPad back to your mac . Senuti costs $ 18 , but there 's a trial version , which can transfer up to 1000 songs . Neither of these require a jailbreak .
Here is one way to get webcal feeds to show up in Outlook 2011 for Mac if you are using Office 365 . Open the Office 365 Web Application Go to My Calendars on the left and right click " Open Calendar " and paste your webcal URL into the " from the Internet " field The calendar ( basecamp or tripit for example ) will now show up both in your Office 365 web app and also in Outlook 2011 for Mac ( assuming you have this set up )
You can turn off your iMac ( and your macbook ) screen without sleeping via the following keyboard shortcut : ⌃ + ⇧ + ⏏ ( Control + SHIFT + EJECT ) Machines like the Air and newer MacBook Pro with no optical drives have the power button in the same place as the eject key and it works similarly for display sleeping shortcuts .
If you go in to iTunes and go to Preferences - > Devices , and check the box that says Prevent iPods , iPhones , and iPads from syncing automatically .
Just download the free ( ! ) <URL> and then you can simply share and sync all your desktop bookmarks to your iPhone/iPad .
The only way to sync a non-Apple device with iCloud is to sync your Mac with iCloud , then sync you may with the device using iSync .
I used Active Sync since I got my very first iPhone , and switched to CardDAV the day Google announced support for it . I can say without a doubt CardDAV is the way to go With CardDAV , you will get you much more accurate synchronization than with Active Sync . First , as has been mentioned , you can synchronize more than 3 e-mail addresses . In fact , I have 31 e-mail addresses myself , and they finally all sync up with my iPhone . Even more importantly , two-way sync works now . If you make an edit on your iPhone , it wo n't clobber the field in your Google Contacts . For instance , editing e-mail addresses on your iOS device wo n't change their labels in Google Contacts to instead of , , and whatever custom fields you might have had . In particular , custom fields are preserved in both directions . This is especially important if you want to use Siri to " Send an e-mail to my brother " . The field in Google Contacts was not correctly imported into iOS through Active Sync , and if you allowed Siri to save who your brother was in your contacts , the import back into Google Contacts mangled everything up , including all other fields that you did not edit . Finally , phone numbers also all sync in both directions without trouble using CardDAV . To me , two-way editing ( or the lack thereof ) was the biggest problem with Active Sync . I never , ever edited any contacts on my iPhone using Active Sync because I did n't want to have to fix all the fields on a desktop later on . Now I can do it freely and have n't noticed any data corruption . The main gripe people have concerning CardDAV is the lack of push . However , for me Active Sync push was so slow anyway that the slight delay of Fetch barely makes a difference . Plus , my experience with the reliability of Push has been less than stellar ( connections that die and are never re-established , primarily ) . I 've found the polling model to be far more robust . What you may want to avoid while using CardDAV is updating a contact in Gmail or on your iPhone , then immediately updating the same contact in the other . This will likely cause one of your modifications to get overwritten by the modification made in the other direction . Update 1 : The one oddity I 've found in two-way syncing relates to the phone number type . For some reason it does n't sync correctly in either direction ( it becomes " Phone " on your iOS device when entered in Google Contacts , and in Google Contacts when entered from an iOS device ) . My only guess can be that the field has a special meaning to Google . Update 2 : There is another strangeness with the phone number type . It will make it to your iOS devices correctly if entered as such from Google Contacts . However , if you specify as a phone number type from an iOS device , Google Contacts will change that to . The iOS device that originally specified will retain it as its phone number type until that contact is updated again from either Google Contacts ( without first changing the phone number type to ) or from another iOS device . I recommend only entering as a phone number type from Google Contacts . Contacts with that phone number type should also only be edited from Google Contacts if you care about listing as their mobile phone number .
Somebody heard you , because this is now baked in . Your iCloud account will sync bookmarks , browser history , and even tabs in Yosemite and iOS 8 .
Yes , you can . When you set up the new Mac and connect it to your Time Machine backup either through the network or via cable , you can select restore from Time Machine Backup during setup . If you have already set up your new Mac and want to now restore , use Migration Assistant found in your Applicatons > Utilities folder . The instructions can be found on Apple Support . See the link below or search support for Migration Assistant . From <URL> : Migration Assistant and Setup Assistant Setup Assistant opens the first time you start up a new Mac . It helps you enter your information about your network , and guides you through setting up a user account on your computer . Use it to transfer user accounts , settings , and documents from another computer to your Mac . If you do n't use Setup Assistant to transfer information when you first set up your new Mac , you can do it later using Migration Assistant . Migration Assistant in OS X Mavericks and Yosemite can transfer information from other computers that have OS X Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 or later installed . If you 're migrating from a computer with an earlier version of OS X , update your older computer first , or manually copy your data from one computer to another . If you 're migrating from a Windows-based PC to a Mac , you can use the Windows Migration Assistant as part of this process . Migrate from a Time Machine backup or external drive Use these steps to migrate users , data , or other information from an existing Time Machine backup stored on a Time Capsule or external drive . If your Time Machine backup is on an external drive , connect the drive to your new Mac . On your new Mac , open Migration Assistant . You can find it by choosing Go > Utilities , or using Spotlight or Launchpad . Enter an admin password when prompted , and click OK . Select " From a Mac , Time Machine backup , or startup disk " , then click Continue . Select the Drive , Time Machine backup , or Time Capsule volume you want to migrate from , then click Continue . The Continue button is unavailable ( dimmed ) until you select a source . If you 're migrating from a Time Capsule , enter your Time Capsule password when prompted , then click Connect . Select the specific Time Machine backup you want to migrate from , then click Continue . You can customize the type of information that is migrated on the next screen . If you want to transfer only a portion of an account , deselect anything you do n't want migrated . If there is more than one user on your original Mac , you can click the triangle next to a user 's icon and deselect anything you do n't want to migrate for specific users . After you click Continue , the Migration Assistant begins transferring files to Mac . The amount of time that it takes for migration to complete depends on the amount of data being copied , and the speed of the connection . After migration finishes , the login window reappears . Log into the migrated account on your new Mac to see your old files . <URL>
For iOS 8 or later , in iMessage once you have your conversation with the contact ( s ) you wish to send your location with , tap " Details " and then tap " Send Location " .
It means either when the device is unable to determine if a message has been delivered over the iMessage transport successfully . When a successful delivery occurs you see a little ' Delivered ' notification below the message in the history , and after a period you should have the option to resend as an SMS or the recipient has no registration with the iMessage server to indicate that it could use the iMessage transport and will use SMS instead .
In most cases you can drag a file into a terminal window to get the full path and that would be something you could paste into an iMessage window . If you want it to be a true link to the file , prepend the path with file : / / file : / / / Volumes/NAS/path / to/file
Yes you can . Enable Screen Sharing by connecting the computer to a display ( and keyboard ) once . Then you can easily unplug display/keyboard and access the computer via Screen Sharing . As long as you do not mess with the network and screen sharing settings of the headless computer you also can turn it off and reboot it without loosing the ability to screen share again .
A lot of software updates ( particularly OS , driver and firmware updates ) can be found on <URL> . You can download them like any other file and just transfer them to your Mac Pro at your convenience . For software on the Mac App Store ( including bundled apps like iPhoto ) , there are n't separate downloads . You could try downloading the full apps on your MacBook then copying the application bundle over . For third party software , there are often separate patches available for download from the developer 's site .
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
end question
start question
What versions of OS X are affected by Heartbleed ?
No versions of OS X are affected ( nor is iOS affected ) . Only installing a third party app or modification would result in a Mac or OS X program having that vulnerability / bug in OpenSSL version 1.0.x Apple deprecated OpenSSL on OS X in December of 2012 if not earlier . No version of OpenSSL that is vulnerable to <URL> ( a.k.a the <URL> ) Apple provides several alternate application interfaces that provide SSL to Mac developers and has this to say about OpenSSL : OpenSSL does not provide a stable API from version to version . For this reason , although OS X provides OpenSSL libraries , the OpenSSL libraries in OS X are deprecated , and OpenSSL has never been provided as part of iOS . Use of the OS X OpenSSL libraries by apps is strongly discouraged . Specifically , the latest <URL> is OpenSSL 0.9.8 y 5 Feb 2013 which does not appear to have the bug from newer versions of OpenSSL back ported to the code for Apple 's version of the library . The PDF of this documentation has some clearly written advice for developers and some sections that 's useful for professionals or the security minded user as well . <URL> and <URL> Considering this , the only remaining issue would be additional software that were built against OpenSSL , e.g. several in Homebrew ( followed by ) or MacPorts ( followed by ) to update to the patched 1.x version of openSSL . Also , you could use mdfind/mdls to check on files named openssl in case you have other applications that bundle that library as Apple recommends rather than depending on the " safe " version Apple still ships with OS X.
The most basic way is probably to use globbing : This will list all files with a filename length greater than 10 characters . There are 11 question marks , and the asterisk matches those with longer length . Modify the number of question marks to match what you 're looking for . For greater than or equal to 10 , use , or for equal to 10 use .
Yes , all updates to iOS so far have been backwards-compatible with older versions of apps , so the apps should work fine .
This will not be possible . You will see an cloud icon when you previously " purchased " an app . This will notify you that you could download the app withous any costs . It is not possible to delete those apps from your apple is . If you do n't want to see the cloud icon , you could sign out from the appstore via settings > iTunes &amp; App Store > sign out . This will hide the cloud icon but you have to log in each time you want to download an app .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
A <URL> is the equivalent of kernel panic in unix and unix-like OSes . From the wiki article : In Unix-based operating systems , a similar term is kernel panic . That said , I 've seen the following image two times over the past 3-4 years . This is a kernel panic screen , as described in <URL> .
You will find a nice answer over at sister site <URL> . It involves a terminal program called <URL> which comes with lot 's of options and I know at least of one support file for extending its capabilities to print Ruby code . EDIT : I just noticed the " clipboard " part of the question . The clipboard content can be accessed from the command line and fed to using as mentioned in Matteo answer .
Here are some references . I do n't have any personal experience with them . <URL> , April 22 , 2010 <URL> . A note there indicates that it is not yet compiled for Lion . <URL>
OS X ships with and you will want to to get vi-style commands . A very popular choice is and the many customization packages like <URL> . Neither she 'll is fully in either style by default . For emacs style , it 's similar - see <URL> : You switch between the two modes in bash , zsh or ksh with set - o vi or set - o emacs , and with bindkey - e or bindkey - v in tcsh or zsh .
It seems the theoretical limit is <URL> hard links on an HFS + volume . Indirect node files have a special identifying number called a link reference . The link reference is unique among indirect node files on a given volume . The link reference is not related to catalog node IDs . When a new indirect node file is created , it is assigned a new link reference randomly chosen from the range 100 to 1073741923 . The limit for links to a single file is <URL> , the maximum number of a UInt32 , which is about four times larger than the volume limit , which you 'll exhaust first . linkCount For indirect node files , this field contains the number of hard links that point at this indirect node file . As a practical matter , this design is quite strange , and suffers from performance issues . The more hard links you have on a volume , the slower it will be to create a new one , as the system must first find an unused link reference number , then insert it into the metadata directory . Then that metadata directory must be searched to dereference a hard link . You may begin seeing performance problems with only a few thousand links ; your great-grandchildren wo n't live long enough to create a billion if you start today . In practice you 'll notice this most often when <URL> , which use hard links extensively .
The <URL> indicates that Tiger ( 10.4 ) and Leopard ( 10.5 ) both include Ruby . I can verify from machines in my own home that Lion ( 10.7 ) , Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) , and Mavericks ( 10.9 ) all come with Ruby . I ca n't personally verify that Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) contained Ruby , but it would be shocking if it was present in the previous and subsequent versions but not Snow Leopard . If your target audience is people who bought their computers or upgraded their operating system on or after April 29 , 2005 , you should be safe using Ruby in your installer .
Your allocated video memory depends on what you are going to be doing with your VM . For instance , I use 8MB for my headless FreeBSD machines and 256MB for my Windows 10 VMs . Windows Servers 2008 or 2012 get anywhere from 16 to 128MB of RAM depending on what they are used for . However , if you set it to 256MB ( max for one monitor ) you should have ample memory to run El Capitan . I do recommend maxing out the memory in your iMac , however ( 32GB RAM ) . That has made all the difference for me .
In quality terms , HDMI is identical to DVI , but some TVs see DVI as a " computer input " and HDMI as a " media input " , and may give you slightly different options . I 'd have a quick search online to see if anyone 's used your model TV with a Mac Mini , just to make sure . By the way , unless you 're running it a great distance , there 's no advantage whatsoever to an expensive HDMI cable . The cheapest one you can buy is as good as any other !
In the " unusual " camp there 's a program called <URL> that purports to turn your trackpad into a Wacom-like tablet . They also sell a special stylus and sketching software . For music there 's <URL> , which allows you to create music using trackpad for input , and <URL> , a DJ ' ing app that lets you " scratch " records with your trackpad .
The current non-beta version of Xcode , 4.3.3 for Lion , works fine on a retina device but certain UI elements are not retina-enabled . Most notably the little " LCD " screen that sits in the top middle of the toolbar , it looks quite blurry on a retina MBP . Also the Play/Stop buttons , and many other UI elements . However the text used to render your code is crisp .
Being a programmer myself , I think screen size and amount of memory are the most important factors to consider . The processors and graphic chips of all current MacBooks will be sufficient for this kind of work , although the MacBook Airs come standard with an Intel i5 processor , which can be upgraded to an i7 for a small price . Memory : MacBook Airs come standard with 4 GB , which I think is not enough . They all have the option to upgrade to 8 GB though . The 13 " MacBook Pros come with 8 GB standard , with 16 GB as an option . The 15 " MacBook Pros have 16 GB standard . For screen size , I like to have lots of it to do development work . Unfortunately , Apple stopped selling 17 " laptops some years ago . On the other hand , almost all MacBook Pros now come with a Retina display , which means they have a much higher resolution for the same screen size . If you are comfortable working with smaller font sizes , you can switch to a " more space " option in the display settings , which gives you lots of screen real estate . You can choose between 13 " and 15 " MacBook Pros , but the 15 " models are Apple 's top of the line , so they might be costlier than what you 're looking for . The MacBook Airs do n't have Retina displays , and they come in 11 " and 13 " models . A last point to look out for is disk size . All MacBooks , except for the 13 " MacBook Pro without Retina display , come with an SSD . But with the cheaper models it 's just 128 GB . On all MacBook Air models you have the option to pick up to 512 GB , and up to 1 TB on the MacBook Pros . I suggest you go to the <URL> for your country , and customize a MacBook Air or MacBook Pro to your liking and within your budget . Welcome to the Apple development world !
You can do this with Inkscape : To change output resolution you can set the DPI value : <URL> are more command line options .
I have 2 mac : 1 office running OS X 10.9 , Mavericks , and 1 personal running OS X 10.10 , Yosemite . My files in OS X 10.10 , Yosemite are not showing but in OS X 10.9 , Mavericks they are still present . Try logging in from another Mac running OS X 10.9 and you might find them there and be able to take a copy , as this is what I am doing right now .
I use the program <URL> when I want to know about specific machines throughout Apple 's History . With your model number you can identify all there is to know about that mac you have . It is available form the App Store for both Mac and iOS devices .
My experience is no one , ten or even 50 apps can slow down your boot in any measurable manner . Even an old iPhone 3 with 11 pages of apps booted in visually the same time as a freshly restored iPhone 3 . The reason for this is a number of design choices that provide real benefits to the running system and also are good at isolating boot times from application influences . Specifically , nothing auto-launches , there are not multiple user accounts to prepare , and the OS systems that display and interact with apps work from databases that update when apps are deleted or installed - not at boot time .
end question
start question
What does it mean if IPSW file is not signed anymore ?
Easily spoken , you could say ispw files are not complete . They 're missing that so-called signature . It 's like a contract ; it has no value without the signature . Every time you install new firmware on the iPhone , iTunes calls to the Apple servers and ask for that approval signature . For numerous reasons , Apple does n't give out those signatures for older firmware versions . There 's not much you can do . The only thing you can do is downgrading to 8.4.1 and hope one day somebody releases the jailbreak for it . But for now , you 're stucked .
The file will be saved if the containing folder has not yet been backed up , otherwise it will be backed up next time Time Machine makes a backup . The backup will not be corrupted .
Try menu > About this Mac > System Report ... Select USB on the left , then find your device in the list . The reported speed ought to be a giveaway . Mine shows it 's only running at USB2 speeds [ but that 's because I do n't have a USB3 machine ] <URL>
No , but you can create an image that has your name and contact info on it , then use that as your lock screen wallpaper . You could also create a note on the device or an " emergency/lost " contact in the address book , but both of those require you to not use a passcode to use the device . A wallpaper with contact info works even if the person who finds your iPod ca n't unlock it .
iTunes does support the original iPhone , there is no where it is written in the requirements of iTunes 10.5 that says that iTunes requires this version of iOS or this particular iPhone or even iPod in order to sync with it . All Apple music devices should be supported unless other wise noted . The only point where it may matter is if you have updated to the latest version of iOS from a newer version of iTunes ( e.g. greater than 10.5.0.142 ) and then are attempting to use that updated iOS on an older version of iTunes 10.5.0.142 in this case . In that situation there may be issues communicating between the two due to apple changing protocols or who knows what else between versions of iTunes and iOS . I suggesting updating to the latest version of iTunes , and then contact Apple or their discussion forms if the problem persists .
You can use terminal to read the File System Personality : Look for the fields named below : If the file system is case sensitive , you will see Case-sensitive Journaled HFS in the first pasted line and Mac OS Extended ( Case-sensitive , Journaled ) in the third . Disk Utility will also show you this from the info window for any File System it can see .
Sadly , you 've passed the point where you get to save your work . Luckily , iMovie periodically saves the application database / library so you are unlikely to lose everything if you decide to shut down the Mac or force quit the application . Once you regain control of the application ( you already know you ca n't do anything with it stuck in a state where it 's no longer responding to messages , input - a.k.a spinning wheel of death ) you can see if the changes you made are missing . If they are , a call to apple support might be needed to restore the backup copies of the library it has made internally since Apple does n't document how to restore a previous iMovie library publicly . Going forward , you can set a timer and periodically save/quit iMovie and then back up the files . Time Machine allows you to make local snapshots if you do n't have your backup volume connected . Then to make a point in time snapshot of all the files , quit iMovie and then run in terminal : That saves a neat point in time version of all your files that you can then recover later using the Time Machine interface .
Mail is like many apps that use the network - it ca n't just quit if there is network traffic active , it needs to see those requests safely terminated . If for example Mail is checking your iCloud account it needs to wait a certain time until all processes are complete before exiting . It may also be sending an email that you have just hit " Send " on , and then you have immediately tried to quit - ca n't work that way . Even if the network communication is asynchronous these things need to be tidied up before exiting .
The iTerm color change of Tab labels indicates activity . It can be turned of in : Preferences > Appearance > Color tab labels on activity The help file explains this " Color tab labels on activity " appearance preference as follows : If selected , tab labels become purple when a non-selected tab has new output , and red when a non-selected tab has output you have n't seen but that is not very recent .
According to <URL> , you will see performance gains ( 5-30 % ) by running graphics applications in 64-bit mode . Note that you do n't necessarily need to switch to a 64-bit Kernel , you just need to <URL> .
In system preferences security change the download from to anywhere .
The other answer seems to be correct about the file system being HFSX , but on being case-insensitive ( other answer since edited to correct ) , I found that not to be the case in the book <URL> . On page 23 it says : In iOS , being the case sensitive HFSX by default , case is not only preserved , but allows for multiple files to have the same name , albeit with a different case . Naturally , case sensitivity means typos produce a totally different command or file reference , often a wrong one . [ emphasis above is mine ] Since that did n't agree with the other answer , I sought confirmation . I loaded a sample iOS project I was working on and changed the name of the database to only differ by case . After running the app on my iPad mini ( iOS 6.1 ) to re-create the database , I went into iTunes and looked at the files under File Sharing for the application . Here 's what I saw : So , it would appear Mac OS X and iOS Internals is correct : case is preserved and allows for multiple files to have the same name . Interestingly , when I selected both files in iTunes ' File Sharing and clicked " Save to ... " my desktop , I did not get any warning . iTunes apparently " saved " both files to my desktop , but only the initial-uppercase version survived ( presumably overwriting the initial-lowercase version of the file . )
No I mix and match my chargers often , the only disadvantage is that the iPhone charger charges slower according to a lot of sources , but I have yet to experience it . I still have an iPhone 3G charger I use as a spare at work to charge my iPad on occasion . Interestingly I have never noticed my chargers getting hot either , but will admit I have never actively looked . Looking at the Charging Tips <URL> the reason for the slower charge is that the iPhone charger is 5W compared to 10W for the iPad , based on wattage alone , I ca n't see how you would damage the iPad , I would suspect using a higher wattage might however .
I do not have a direct link or citation on/about Apple to prove my conclusion . But the most logical answer I could gather by reading several sites is that MM would stand for " Multi-mode " , signifying that the iPad supports not just CDMA and GSM , but also multiple LTE implementations . The term " multimode " or " multi-mode " is used to designate chips/devices that support multiple , disparate communication technologies ( a device with WiFi and Bluetooth can be called multimode too , but we 're talking only about cellular here . Plus , all of Apple 's iDevices have had WiFi and Bluetooth in all models ) . Only the GSM + CDMA + LTE models that support multiple carriers have the " MM " tag . Example : The 4th generation iPad and the iPad mini have models that support CDMA/GSM/LTE on Verizon and Sprint . So they 're marked as " Cellular ( MM ) " to give them a more substantial ( and carrier neutral ) name . The GSM + CDMA + LTE models in older generations that support only Verizon have a " VZ " tag instead of the " MM " tag . Example : The 3rd generation iPad , the first iPad to come with support for both CDMA and GSM on a single device , has a CDMA/GSM/LTE Verizon model , but it does not support Sprint . So it 's marked as " Cellular ( VZ ) " to signify that it 's tied to Verizon ( and can not work with another CDMA carrier like Sprint ) . In Apple 's current terminology : " Cellular " implies GSM+LTE " Cellular ( MM ) " implies GSM+CDMA+LTE ( across CDMA carriers ) Note that there is no " CDMA only " version of the iPad after the iPad 2 , unlike " GSM only " versions that have been and continue to be available . You can come to similar conclusions by comparing the cellular support across iPad models/generations and how they relate to the chipsets used , the carriers supported , and their technology implementations . Here are some links related to the iPad specs across generations and multi-mode ( as it applies to cellular technology ) that would help understand my conclusion better . Technical specifications for iPads of different generations ( pay attention to the technologies/carriers supported ) : 1 . <URL> 2 . <URL> 2 . <URL> 3 . <URL> Links related to multi-mode ( read them completely or search for " mode " to go to multimode related snippets on these pages ) : 1 . <URL> , <URL> 2 . <URL> 3 . <URL> 4 . <URL> 5 . <URL> 6 . <URL>
Yes , right . Round about Tiger ( 10.4 ) Apple introduced a nice neat way for apps to integrate with your address book and calendar data stores etc. . At the time it was a novel thing that allowed for any number of clever calendar widgets etc , and stuff that could happily replace the in-built tools ( or enhance them ) without you having to change anything at an account or data level . These days , because of a number of high profile mobile apps getting in trouble for doing what the desktop OS have been doing for years , they are cranking up the security and privacy options .
The " o " means that you 're on a 2G network . In Verizon 's case , that would be 1xRTT . If you see it on an AT&amp;T device , that means you 're on GPRS . Here 's a screenshot from the <URL> detailing what the various signal indicators mean : " 3G " means exactly the same thing on the 1st generation iPad as it does on the 3rd generation iPad . However , if you have AT&amp;T , the 3rd generation iPad reports HSDPA + as " 4G " . Since the 1st generation iPad is incapable of using HSDPA + , you will only ever see 3G or below on that device .
The first part of the sync error message means exactly what it says - your iPhone can only be associated with a single iTunes library . The second half is tricky for people that are analytical , but for most users it 's meant to make them want to back up their phone before they erase it . Regardless of how you choose to copy your content ( sync manually or automatic ) it maintains a connection to a single library to which is is allowed to copy music/films/apps etc to and from , and where backups/restores etc can be made . Unless you know exactly what was synced - you could be inadvertently erasing some content hence the scary general error message . If you introduce your iPhone to a new iTunes library , then it can remove any content that is associated with the previous one . Assuming you still have access to the old one you can copy the files from one computer to another to enable you to sync them back again after , or you can transfer the purchases to the new iTunes library assuming it has been authorised using the same Apple ID . This is an attempt to limit unauthorised copying of music and other content etc , otherwise you could happily take your phone or iPod around to all your friends laptops and merrily copy all their stuff onto your device , where you could then happily sync it back to your iTunes library at home . Other phone content , like emails , contacts , settings should remain unaffected , as these are not held within the iTunes library ( even if you have set iTunes to be the sync mechanism for putting them on your phone , they belong outside of the library . Rule of thumb : if the original iTunes copied the content on in the first place , it will be removed . It wo n't just wipe the whole phone , just what came from iTunes .
Installed my copy of Mountain Lion on top of Lion , seems like everything works now . No issues , thanks anyway ! Appreciate it :)
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
If the option " Copy files to the iTunes Music folder when adding to library " is activated , iTunes makes a copy . The default storing location is : Windows 7 : Windows Vista : Windows XP and 2000 : MAC OS X :
end question
start question
How do I change the locked screen wallpaper on iPhone 4S ?
Yeah you sure can ! Find the picture in the Photos app , press the menu button in the bottom left corner and press Use as Wallpaper .
As of October 2011 when this was first asked , there has been no official answer stated . With the 3GS , Apple officially stated " the S is for speed . " There has been no comparable explanation given for the 4S . HOWEVER , in an interview at the All Things D conference , Apple CEO Tim Cook <URL> , " some people might say it stands for Siri or speed . We were thinking of Siri when we did it . " So the official answer is that the S in iPhone 4S stands for ... Siri
There is no " good " answer for this , but here 's the best I can figure out . Once you are on the call and muted : make sure you are on the screen that displays the mute/addcall/facetime / contacts buttons ( I 'll call this the " mute screen " from hereonout ) click the top button that turns off and locks the phone when you need to unmute , you can click the on/off or home button and swipe right . at this point you will see the " mute screen " and you can unmute . this only works once as far as I can tell . Once you have done this once , the next time the phone locks and you need to unmute , swiping right will not display the mute screen , but will just display your passcode pad as usual . NOTE : in order for this to work at all , the screen MUST BE the mute screen when you click the top on/off button . If you are on any other screen when the phone locks , this will not work even one time , as far as I can tell . I hope this is helpful . As usual with Apple , basic functionality is omitted for no discernible reason . " YOU ARE N'T I-TELEPHONING RIGHT . "
I found this tool called BetterTouchTool <URL> BetterTouchTool is a great , feature packed app that allows you to configure many gestures for your Magic Mouse , Macbook Trackpad and Magic Trackpad and also Mouse Gestures for normal mice . It also allows you to configure actions for keyboard shortcuts , normal mice buttons and the Apple Remote . In addition to this it has an iOS companion App ( BTT Remote ) which can also be configured to control your Mac the way you want . It allows me to set a HUGE variety of actions for TONS of mouse gestures . I am able to create actions for FORCE click on specific areas of the trackpad , and even multifinger force click . It is exactly what I 've been looking for . It is extremely useful .
To enter or exit Fullscreenmode of your VM you can press [ Command ] + [ Control ] + [ F ] .
Requirements iPhone / iPad running iOS8 Mac running OS X 10.10 Yosemite How to Record iPhone/iPad Screen on OS X Yosemite Connect the iPhone/iPad to Mac via USB Open the QuickTime Player on the Mac Select Quicktime will default select iSight camera , click on the arrow alongside the record button to select the iPhone/iPad . Click on the record button to record the iPhone/iPad Screen
I had this same issue after I recreated my iTunes library . This may be totally off because it was about a month ago , but I think I did this : canceled the sync clicked on the iPod under devices or whatever ( maybe I secondary clicked ) I think after I clicked ( or secondary clicked ) on it , there was an option to copy purchased items Sorry this is so vague , it 's been awhile :) on edit : I just tested this out by alt clicking iTunes , creating a new library , and connecting my iPod . It 's pretty much exactly how I described . cancel the sync secondary click the iPod on the left click " transfer purchases " Afterwards , you can sync , and everything will be erased and rewritten to the iPod . I 'm not sure why Apple makes this so confusing . The only reason I can come up with is that they want people to have to repurchase stuff but that seems a little over the top even from Apple .
Fire up Safari and check the settings for the default search engine . For me that is google and searching the way you described it for me opens safari ( currently my default browser ) with a google search . The option is right there on the first settings tab . I included an image detailing where to find it ( sorry for the german ) :
A primitive work around would be to set two alarms , both with no snooze . Alarm 2 can be set X minutes after Alarm 1 .
The link is broken - please look at some upvoted answers below as well Assuming you are talking about the reference dictionary for looking up the meanings of words ( NOT spellchecking/autocorrection ) , you can not modify that on an iOS device . But in OS X you can add other modules . This page provides some info : <URL>
The file could simply still be open by something . Use to see which process is hogging it , if any . Otherwise should get rid of it If that did n't work , try removing all the flags it 's complaining about first :
For 3GS : <URL> : " Settings > General > Usage -- and toggle the Battery Percentage setting to On . " For 3G Jailbreak then install SBSettings . Select Extras &amp; Options - > Numeric Battery
iTunes starts playing what is currently selected . For me for instance the playlist selected was " Most recently added " , so when I hit the play button on the keyboard , the first song from this list starts to play . The only way I know of to solve your problem is to enable random play in iTunes . This is easily done by clicking the snaked arrow button next to the cover image in the top view . If it 's highlighted blue , random play is on . Quitting iTunes and hitting the play button again will play a random song from the library . Drawback : Whenever you changed that ( because you do n't want to have random play but want to listen to an album ) you have to remind yourself to enable it again before closing it . AFAIK there 's no preference setting for that .
I am not aware of any iOS or web app that will allow bulk deletion of iCloud reminders but that is something that presumably could be written . The only mechanism I am aware of that will bulk delete reminders is the Automator app running on OS X . Here is a screen shot of something that would find all reminders older than 20 days and delete them summarily . You can see I searched for reminder and chose a task to select them and another to delete them . DO NOT RUN THIS unless you are prepared to lose all your reminders or test things on a second iCloud account . For testing , I would add a second condition and watch the script run before letting it loose on a thousand reminders . I 'd hate to be the one to find a bug in the time logic of the Find Reminders action by working on live data that 's not backed up ( and I do n't know a good way to back up the reminder data and have it re-syced back to the cloud easily ) .
One of my favorite tools for doing this is <URL> which is " donationware . " You can adjust each monitor separately , and set keyboard shortcuts for them as well . If you want a command line solution , I found <URL> which compiled cleanly using : ( You 'll need Xcode to be installed to compile it . If you want a precompiled version , mine is available here <URL> ) It will let you set the brightness for either monitor . UPDATE : Note that this answer is several years old . The link above is now 404 but there is a newer tool available at http://github.com/nriley/brightness or ` brew install screenbrightness `
So it sounds like this is likely a known issue , as described by <URL> article in the UK Guardian . In case anyone else comes across this and is curious about some of the symptoms I 've seen , here is a bit of info that might be useful : I had my phone go from 90 % charge to 60 % charge in 90 minutes while in airplane mode and without using the phone ( no apps running , no location services being used , no iPod usage ) . The phone gets quite warm when the battery is draining . Much more so than I experience when doing anything else . Given the behavior , I 'd guess that it gets into some mode where an app gets out of control and is fully pegging the CPU , even though as far as can be determined , nothing is/should be running . This may be a red herring , but my phone wo n't sync . I do n't know if this is related , but doing either a restore or trying to sync with iTunes while connected to a MBP fails . I can only get things to work with " Transfer Purchases " . I sync fine with my iPad running iOS5 , so I do n't think the problem is on the iTunes side . This may be an unrelated problem ( though I hope it is n't as there is a chance I 'll get a fix for the battery problem ) . Hope this helps others who run into a similar problem and are trying to troubleshoot it . I think the easiest way of testing is using airplane mode and making sure location services are not running and if you are still seeing rapid battery drain , there is no good reason that should be happening in that mode , no matter how you have your phone set up . NOTE : And now <URL> by Apple .
I 've set a stylesheet in Safari and these are the changes that occurred in Safari 's plist : Your command line would be :
To restore from backup connect the iPhone to your computer wait for it to appear in iTunes right-click on the iPhone listed under Devices and select " Restore from backup ... " select the backup you want to restore ( there may be several ) Restoring will only touch user-specific content and configurations .
No . CDMA will only work of you buy and activate your 4S device onto a CDMA carrier . The <URL> shows that when you activate the phone it will choose one technology for coverage in country . GSM Registered phones will roam on GSM as will CDMA phones . Sprint should work in 35 unnamed countries and Verizon in 40 at launch .
Open System Preferences , and then Language &amp; Text . Drag the language you want on top and then log-off ( or restart ) your computer .
end question
start question
How can I make Find My Friends display distance in miles rather than km ?
No . The app does n't currently have an override and simply takes the distance units from the system settings . It surely would be nice to have finer control , but the code is n't there to make a change today .
As answered in the comment by bispymusic , this was resolved by using a DVI - > HDMI adaptor or cable . The Mac mini was able to output a whole new set of resolutions , and jumped straight to 1080p as the most suitable . Thanks .
While <URL> @ <URL> <URL> are no longer freeware , the <URL> and <URL> Dashboard widgets are free . I personally use iStat nano for my system monitoring needs . Here it is showing the temps it can read on my iMac : If you <URL> the widget , you can change the view . I usually have it running in " <URL> " mode , which shows CPU , RAM , HDD * , fan * , temperature * , network * and uptime info . * ) user-configurable , e.g. which temp sensor 's readings are displayed
What I 've done to achieve this is to simply not assign any applications to any special space at all . That way , when opening an application , it opens on the space I 'm curently on , letting me organize my work into different projects as I want . On Lion , the organization is kept through reboots , at least for some applications . There is also the utility <URL> , which lets you save configurations of different application windows to easily recreate spaces you use often .
Actually , the best way is to use this website . <URL> , it is far more easier and better than other ways .
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
Apple does n't provide a way for you to withdraw an erase command from iCloud . Theoretically , if it has n't been withdrawn , an engineer for Apple could go in and remove it from the queue assuming : They could verify you were really you You figured out how to convince them to do this As for whether you can still track the device after an erase is sent , that depends on the version of iOS on the device . If you have iOS 7 or later - the erase action does not stop tracking or remove the activation lock preventing a thief or someone who finds / buys it from being able to use the device . It will still show your lock message and you can still track the device . Problem solved ! If you are on iOS 6 or earlier , you are correct that you will have lost the chance to track the device once it connects and receives the wipe command . If it ever connects to Apple 's servers , the wipe will happen and the device will be erased and you should get an email if/when that happens .
If I 'm not mistaken you could do that more or less easily : Say for example column comedy . The total is 534 ( sum ) . 132 ( 1st row ) is the 24.71 % ( 132 x 100 / 534 ) . 3 ( 2nd Row ) is the 0.56 % ... 1 is the 0.18 % 398 is the 74.53 % . The sum of 24.71 +0.56 +0.18 +74.53 == 100 % ( minus rounding , add more decimals for more precision ) . So if you add a final ROW with the SUM ( below technology for example ) you can cause each cell to perform a Cell * 100 / TOTAL_OF_COLUMN and get your % . What am I missing ?
You can not at this time . The option to disable 3G no longer exists for the 4S . No word on why Apple disabled the feature . It may be a proactive move to dump old technology as the phone still supports 2G and will switch to the slower network if 3G is not found . There is a rather <URL> regarding this matter on Apple 's forums .
Yes you can . Simply select the text , right-click , select , and add the URL .
On MacOS 10.10 , " Find My Friends " can be accessed by clicking " Details " when viewing a friend in the Messages application . You can also share screens via " Details " as well , from the desktop Messages app .
I can add as many phone numbers as I want on the iPhone . When you 're in edit mode in the contact , there 's always a blank line under current phone numbers where you can start typing a new one . If you click on the label of the number , you can select a label ( work , home ) and even a custom label if you scroll to the bottom of the label selection list .
The unresponsive iPhone/iPod Touch home button is a known problem . I had an iPhone which started with the same problem as yours . At first the home button worked with just a soft touch , and from any angle . Then it started to work only with a hard press and not at all from certain angles . Finally , it either completely ignored presses , or responded to a single press as if it had been pressed twice ( multitasking bar appeared ) . It was still inside the one-year warranty , but I bought AppleCare anyway , figuring that it might recur . I took it to an Apple Store and the guy played with it for a minute , told me I had a faulty device and gave me a brand new iPhone . The home button ca n't be replaced , so they just give you a new one . My advice it to take it to an Apple Store if there 's one nearby , or if not call Apple and report the problem . Most likely you 'll get a new , working iPod Touch .
You have two options . 1 . On-the-road compatible , but not so user-friendy Create a new playlist on the iOS device ( iPod Touch is one , of course ) . Then , add the songs one by one from memory . They will be kept in sort order , and the playlist will be synced to iTunes for future use . 2 . Much easier , but with listening limitations Sync with iTunes . Select the Library source on the left panel . Sort the tracks by " last played " , by clicking on the title of the " Last played " column . If this column is not visible , right-click on any column 's title and check the corresponding item ( or hit ⌘ J and check it ) . Find the set of songs you liked and select it . Create a new playlist from this selection ( ⌘ ⇧ N ) . Reverse the sort order of the newly created playlist by clicking on the ( empty ) title of the column that contains the play index ( numbers at the extreme left of a song 's title ) . The only problem with this solution is that if you listen to one of the songs that were in your set , it will have its Last played field updated , and wo n't be in the proper place ... So this solution is usable only if you can sync pretty quickly after listening to the set , or can remember a few songs ' positions , or if you avoid listening to them altogether before the next sync .
The MacBook Pro has the same number of pixels as the Cinema Display but a smaller area to show them on . That makes the pixels on the MacBook Pro smaller . Since windows and text are a certain number of pixels in size , screens with smaller pixels will make them appear smaller . The solution is to choose a lower resolution on the screen with smaller pixels ( the MBP in your case ) . Choosing a lower resolution means that each pixel of data will be drawn across multiple physical pixels , making everything bigger . I ca n't tell you exactly what resolution to use on your MBP to get things close to the same size , but it should n't be hard to find out with a little testing . Open System Preferences - > Displays and go to the Display tab of the window on your MBP . Check the Scaled radio button and pick the second resolution on the list that appears . If that is n't big enough , move on to the next ( lower ) resolution , etc. . Stop when you get to one that makes things similar in size across both displays . Note that , as a result of this , your MBP 's display may not look as nice . Things wo n't look as crisp and some resolutions will have to stretch things sideways .
Try to to go and search for . It 's the file that gets updated when you modify the display in ( I just tried ) . According to <URL> , it 's safe to delete it . So move it on your desktop and try to reboot .
In Terminal , relaunch Finder . After that you 'll see all your hidden files in Finder . Now type into Terminal and just drag &amp; drop file that you want to unhide on the line . Enter . will reverse Finder back to normal .
Open Terminal.app Type in ( or better copy-paste ;) : Execute This will display every file deletion on your system . If you want to only display the deletion of " ~ / . Trash " , add to the last command .
If you do n't need to connect to a network turn off WiFi . You will also want to go into the Settings : turn down the brightness ( Brightness &amp; Wallpaper ) turn off Bluetooth ( General ) turn off " Push " and set mail to fetch manually ( Mail , Contact , Calendars ) / ( Fetch New Data ) turn off sounds ( General ) turn off location services ( General ) Turn off Notifications and check any apps to see if any poll wifi ( if you keep it on ) For additional help , I wrote up an article here with pictures : <URL> In the end , it really depends on how you use your iPad . Good luck ! --
In OS X 10.9 , you can simply do . This will immediately turn off your display without changing any of your settings or putting the entire host to sleep . Escalated privileges do n't seem to be required ( at least with recent versions of OS X ) , but if you get a message about inadequate privileges , you could do . Based on feedback from commenters , this is not available in OS X 10.8 or earlier .
end question
start question
Is it possible for an iPad - or any iOS product - to get a virus ?
Yes , security vulnerabilities that would allow people to hack or infect Macs and iOS products do exist , though they 're not exploited very often . <URL> is an annual contest where competitors try to hack into machines to win them as prizes . Both Macs and iOS products are hacked most years . Here is <URL> : Friday , Apple released an update to its mobile operating system ( iOS 4.3.4 ) which patches a couple of vulnerabilities that left a door open for malware infections on the iPad , 3rd and 4th generation iPod touch , iPhone 4 , and iPhone 3GS . Apple 's update describes the CoreGraphics vulnerability as " A buffer overflow ... in FreeType 's handling of TrueType fonts . Viewing a maliciously crafted PDF file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution . " [ ... ] This update comes on the heels of an alert from German IT group BSI , which warned of an unpatched vulnerability that would " allow attackers to gain access to the entire system with administrative privileges . " Apple does " verify " any software for their App Stores , but developers have been known to sneak in features without Apple 's testers seeing them , so do n't expect this to entirely protect you .
I know you said however I could not find it anywhere so assuming it 's a typo and you actually meant you can install it with : Or
Nope . It 's not possible on any iPad or iPhone because Apple stops signing the older iOS versions after newer ones are released . It 's impossible to upgrade to iOS 7.1.2 Three options you have right now Upgrade to iOS 8.1 [ download the firmware separately and update before Apple stops signing ] Upgrade to iOS 8.1.1 from iTunes Stay on iOS 7.0.4 iOS 8.1 has jailbreak , so this could be your chance to upgrade before the window closes .
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
The thunderbolt port and display port are the same port . So it 's not two separate ports . That said , due to the high bandwidth nature of thunderbolt , I suspect we will be able to daisy chain monitors in the future , as well as having thunderbolt " hubs " where multiple devices can be plugged in . But for now , it 's one port . So only one external monitor .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
No . There is no way to interface a CD drive with an iOS device . The best way to do this is to have your iOS device registered to a copy of iTunes running on a Mac or PC , and to connect the iOS device to the Mac or PC via WiFi or a USB cable . This would presuppose that you have a suitable CD drive connected to the Mac or PC for ripping audio . However , it occurs to me that you could probably rip music to AAC or MP3 format on a Mac or PC and then email those files to yourself , check the email on your iOS device , and then open the email attachments on the iOS device . That would get the music files in there .
In general , it 's not possible to downgrade the modem firmware / baseband software version on iOS , <URL> or use software designed to install modified software on an iPhone . It 's a popular request , so I imagine many people are working on it but nothing is out today to perform the task you ask on the iPhone 4 .
Within Xcode you can specify that an app is iPad only under the " Deployment Info " section of the target 's General settings . Beyond that the way to limit an app to certain devices is by specifying features in the Info.plist under the key . You can see the options listed on Apple 's developer website here : <URL> Unfortunately there does not seem to be an option that limits an app to iPad Pro devices only . You can specify " arm64 " which will limit your app to iPad mini second generation and above , iPad Airs and iPad Pro devices . But I ca n't see an option that says devices that support Apple Pencil only .
<URL> is a great tool for ripping DVDs and otherwise converting video . The legal question is probably beyond the scope of this forum , but if you own the dvd and are only ripping it for your own personal viewing , I would n't worry about it .
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
Using remote desktop tools , yes . For example , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> come to mind immediately .
Unfortunately , no - Safari uses quite a few system-level frameworks that are vastly different between those OSes .
There is no firewall on iOS and it does not block any ports that I am aware of . I 'd guess your issue has more to do with the fact that Bookman has n't been updated in over three years and some change in iOS 10 finally broke it . I 'm actually shocked it works at all . It sounds like you can use iTunes file sharing as an alternative , presuming that a recent iTunes update has n't caused that to stop working with this particular app .
<URL> On the menu bar , click Bookmarks and select Show All Bookmarks to open the Library window . From the toolbar on the Library window , click Import and Backup and choose Export Bookmarks to HTML ... In the Export Bookmarks File window that opens , choose a location to save the file , which is named bookmarks.html by default . The desktop is usually a good spot , but any place that is easy to remember will work . Click the Save button . The Export Bookmarks File window will close . Close the Library window . Import the bookmarks.html file into Safari on the Mac by navigating to the File menu within Safari , choosing Import Bookmarks ... , then selecting the file you saved.You may want to delete or archive the existing Safari bookmarks first . You can now sync Safari on the Mac with Safari on your iOS devices . iCloud syncing will make this two-way and happen over the network , but you can also sync using USB and connecting to iTunes if the bookmarks will change rarely .
The <URL> will do this . There are a number of other solutions mentioned at <URL> .
There is one way that I personally know of , and that is using Rogue Amoeba 's <URL> ( $ 29 USD ) . How to send between two iOS devices is outlined in this <URL> ( from 2012 , but the principle is the same ) . Brief version of the article : You first install Airfoil on your computer , and make it act as an Airplay server . From the iOS device playing the audio source , you then use the normal iOS AirPlay controls to pass audio to your computer . You then download Airfoil Satellite from the App store to your second iOS device , and use that application to receive audio from your computer . You just need to assign the Satellite app as a " client " and it will stream audio as usual . If you are thinking of streaming audio from video sources via this method , then audio will obviously not be synced in real-time with video . I have however used it for playing video on my iPad and then " taking the audio with with me " on my iPhone . The example would be if I 'm watching a TV programme on iPad , and I want to go to the bathroom and continue listening ...
Microsoft has a Student store that sells <URL> , downloadable , with key for $ 69 . Presumably from your post , you would qualify for academic pricing .
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
end question
start question
What can I do to stop imessage from engaging on a certain contact without an iphone ?
Nothing . If your friend has n't deactivated iMessage before he sold/lost his iPhone , then Apple still thinks that he has an iPhone and is using iMessage . He has to deactivate iMessage . Here is the <URL> for this . Bun in short : He has to <URL> to do this . Or , when he/she still has his/her iPhone , then go to Settings > Messages and switch off iMessage .
I understand the apprehension ! In reality , though , you do not stand to lose anything . The only reason to transfer those purchases to your computer would be to save bandwidth and time by not re-downloading everything . You will still lose associated app data ( e.g. login information , cache , etc. ) , but that would happen even if you did back up those apps to your computer . In short , you will be fine without transferring purchases . Hope this helps !
You can buy very cheap screen replacements on ebay ( about AU$ 30 ) . I have fitted one of these myself , it is not too hard .
The procedure of photo transfer from iPhone to Mac is astoundingly simple and takes few minutes . You can simply follow below steps : Download <URL> Firstly you will need to download the iPhone to Mac Wi-Fi transfer app to your iPhone through Apple App Store . No installation on your Mac required ! Connect your iPhone and Mac to the same Wi-Fi network . If you do not have multiple routers at your place , your iOS devices should detect and connect to the same Wi-Fi network automatically . Otherwise you might need to manually choose the Wi-fi network for your iPhone to the same as the Mac . Run the iPhone Photo Wireless Transfer Run the photos iPhone to Mac Wireless transfer app on your iPhone . You will get a local IP address through which your Mac can access your iPhone photos library . Browse through your iPhone photo library from your Mac browser Open the web browser on your Mac , type the above IP address in the address bar of your web browser on the Mac . It could be Internet Explorer , Chrome , Firefox , Safari , or any other web browsers you have . Press Enter on the keyboard , all photos and albums from this iPhone 's photo library will be listed on the Photo Wireless Transfer interface right on your Mac browser . After the Wi-Fi connection between your iPhone and Mac established , you can use the web browser on the Mac to browse through photo library and albums on iPhone . Open the target photo album , you will find all photos listed as thumbnails . Transfer photos from iPhone to Mac Now it 's time to pick up the photos from iPhone photo library and transfer to Mac over Wi-Fi . You can click the ' preview ' to enlarge the photos ; you can click ' Download original ' to download pictures one by one ; you can also select multiple photos or all photos in the album and download them as a compressed zip file . With this iPhone to Mac transfer tool , to copy photos from iPhone to Mac over the air is much easier than ever before .
Turn off bluetooth on the phone . Unpair the phone from the truck . When you pair your device , the truck is seen as a remote control in addition to all the other functions so if the truck wants to play , the phone is right to start playing . There is no switch to disable one remote some of the time in iOS or to edit the capabilities of a paired device . You might need to go to the ford dealer and see if they have a firmware update for your truck :-) Seriously - they either need to disable or let you better control the situation where the " remote " asks the phone to play music .
You can buy a contract-free iPhone directly from Apple . Just click on " Or get an iPhone unlocked and contract-free " :
It is loaded by default by . If you run that will disable it for your user . To turn it back on
I 've not tried this myself but <URL> on ehow.com makes it look fairly simple using iTunes . Basically as long as the host computer is authorised for iTunes use , you can connect your old iPod , right click on the icon from within iTunes and select Transfer Purchases to get the apps onto iTunes . Then connect the target device and sync the applications to it .
There is an <URL> . You do n't need to keep a sim in the phone but you need to put one into it to activate it before taking it back out . Here 's the procedure for 3G and 3GS : You can use any SIM card associated with the carrier that your device supports to activate the phone . Simply place a SIM card from the last carrier with which you used your iPhone into the device , and activate it . Then remove the SIM card . You can now use the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS as you would an iPod touch ( Wi-Fi only , no cellular service ) . Note : You can use the activated SIM card from your new iPhone to do this . To re-activate an iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS that displays the " Connect to iTunes " screen : Insert a SIM card from the carrier with which you used your phone . Note : If you are using the same carrier , you can use the activated SIM card from your new device to do this . If your device is unlocked by your carrier , you can use any SIM card . Connect the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS to iTunes on a computer connected to the Internet . iTunes will then activate the device . You can remove the SIM card at this point and use the iPhone as if it were an iPod touch .
Without jailbreaking , I believe your options are the use of apps that provide this kind of lock functionality built-in , unless Apple decide to implement some kind of <URL> in future iOS versions for devices like the iPad . I 've previously come across <URL> or <URL> ( there may well be others ) which provide passcode protection schemes when starting and , judging by the screenshots , appear to be frontends to the relevant webmail pages ( as opposed to a native application like the Apple Mail app ) . I 've not used either , but they may be of use to you .
If it was archived on your Mac , you can find it by date . Navigate to Open the relevant dated folder &amp; any conversations for that day will be listed by the contact names . Double-clicking will open it in Messages .
Simply turn off voicemail for calls to google voice using the web interface for that google voice number . If you activated the carrier settings like in the image below , click the instructions to reverse those changes with the carrier . You could also call your carrier for help since it 's a feature that has different commands on a per-carrier basis . They will be most familiar with their settings and order to undo the change if Google does n't help undo it . Without your carrier forwarding all calls to Google , you can still keep Google Voice and have both voicemail systems separate . That will simply forward the call and let the iPhone and carrier handle the voicemail . Lastly , you do n't have to delete the google app for this to work , but that might make things simpler if your wife does n't want to call out using the Google Voice number anymore .
Emailing full resolution photos or videos On your iPhone open your camera roll and navigate to the overview screen where all your recent captures are shown via small square icons . Press and hold on the icon for the video you wish to move to your computer and select copy from the pop-up menu that appears . Still on your iPhone open Mail and create a new message . In the body of the message , press and hold the cursor , and select paste from the pop-up menu . The message you send will now have the full , unadulterated video attached which you can download on your desktop . Note : on my iPhone 4 I created a 4 second clip with very little motion and it used 6 MB . You may hit your attachment limit very quickly depending on length and resolution .
Settings Before doing anything : Clear your App Switcher ( Double press your home button and swipe up all the applications you see ) ( Optional ) Go to Settings > Messages and Turn OFF and then back ON your iMessage option . Now open back Message and try to send a message to your friend 's iPhone , but make sure to use the button at the Top-Left corner to find your friend and start the conversation , do n't just open your recent chat with him/her . This should have reset your iMessage settings , so you should be able to send iMessages to your friend now . Restart If the process above did n't solve the issue , you may want to : Clear the App Switcher again ( Optional ) Restart your iPhone , long press the Sleep/Wake button until you see the Apple logo again , then release , OR you can long press until you see a slider which can be used to turn OFF the iPhone , once done that , press again the Sleep/Wake button to turn the iPhone back ON . Try to send a message to your friend I 'm sure you already know the difference between iMessage and normal SMS/MMS , although that , I 'll leave you a link to the <URL> about the difference , have a great day !
I searched everywhere for a clean solution . Many solutions that worked for Lion and below no longer worked for Mountain Lion . However , this works and it took me hours to find . Enjoy ! <URL> From the website : In a search for a non-hacky way to disable direct mappings to iTunes for the play/pause/next / previous buttons in the keyboard in OSX , I stumbled across the " Remote control daemon " ( rcd ) . As it turns out , disabling the iTunes launch behavior for these keys is as easy as unloading rcd with the following command :
You ca n't do it natively , and you ca n't do it through an App Store app . You 'll have to jailbreak and search for a blacklist app on Cydia . Of course you can disable SMS and/or MMS entirely on the device , but the iPhone and iOS is designed to have blocking enforced from the cell carrier and not the device . Until and unless your local carrier offers an iOS app so that you can self-block addresses , you 'll need to modify iOS by jailbreaking to have SMS suppressed once they reach the iPhone hardware and software .
You can try the install with iPhone Configuration Utility : <URL> <URL>
Uncheck Bookmarks in the iCloud control panel . &amp; point 2 ... not much at all ; would n't worry about it .
<URL> ( $ 5 ) will let you load files directly to your iPhone over your LAN and play them from there . That should work fine if your audiobooks are a ) all one file ( if they are in multiple files there may not be ' playlist ' support , which would be annoying , and b ) not DRM 'd . If they are DRM 'd you 'll need to sync them via iTunes or , in the case of Audible.com , you can download them from the <URL> .
I do n't think automatic switching is available at the moment but a quick way to switch manually without leaving the app is to enable multiple keyboards . You can do this is Settings - > General - > Keyboards . Your keyboards will now have a globe button next to the 123 button to enable fast switching by tapping the globe and you can hold it down and select the desired language :) Having the keyboard in a different should change the dictionary and autocorrect features automatically . Hope this helps
end question
start question
Is there an app that allows users to create a map from an image ?
TomTom calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it . Garmin calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it either . The only app I found that supports this feature is <URL> ( $ 1 , or free <URL> ) . Basically you upload an image to their website , then you use this application to view the map with your location shown on it . From the app description : Once you 've uploaded your map to the website , use this app to view the map on your iPhone . Even better , go to the location the map represents , and view it there . You 'll be amazed when you see your position correctly shown on the map , no matter how much the map is stretched or squashed compared to the geographic space it represents . You wo n't need a data connection to view maps -- great if you 're going abroad .
Search for the App in the iTunes store ( OS X or iOS as appropriate ) and then look for the stars to rate and then write a detailed review . You should be asked to sign in to your Apple ID and you must have purchased the app to write a review . If you received a gift or promotional copy , you might not be able to write a review in some cases . The Write a Review text is below the ScreenShots section so you may need to scroll the content up to see the link to submit a review .
I assume your problem resides in the fact that Photos app is taking too much space on your iPad . If this is the issue , your best solution for managing space and keeping a synced Photo Library across devices is to enable Optimise iPad Storage under Settings - > Photos &amp; Camera - > Optimise iPad Storage on your iPad . The Photos app on your iPad will then manage which photos are kept at high resolution and which are just stored as thumbnails . You can also activate the same preference on your Mac 's Photos app , under Photos - > Preferences - > iCloud Tab - > Optimise Mac Storage on the top bar . Unfortunately , there 's no way to delete a photo exclusively in one device once iCloud Photo Library is enabled .
Apparently Apple quietly added the ability to mark calendar events as private in iOS 8 . At the bottom of the event details there is the option to toggle an event as . Setting this toggle works with Exchange . See screenshots below : <URL> <URL>
I found this app . <URL> that allows you to setup email address to send copy of SMS content . SMS are purchased in app . Net Nanny are also bringing out an iOS app to monitor and restrict iOS devices in young persons hands . details <URL> NET NANNY FOR IOS includes Filtering ( 18 categories ) , Age-based Profiles , Safe Search , Profanity Masking , and supports Wi-Fi/3G/4G . NET NANNY SUITE FOR IOS includes all the features of Net Nanny for iOS plus Remote Administration , Reports , Custom Categories , Whitelist/Blacklist . Future releases within the next few months will include Time Controls , Custom Alerts , Reports , and device management tools such as Device Locate and Forced Ring . All new features will be auto-updated for existing users .
There are several options you can use here . They can do practically the same : <URL> : It 's an app which will allow you to create watchlist and share them with your friends . And you can even write reviews for movies and share them with your friends . <URL> : My personal favorite since it has the biggest library and community . You can watch trailers , share items , see actors , make cross-references , share movies with your friends and make watchlists . I personally enjoy using this app ! And something out of category : <URL> : Here you can check into movies/books/shows / music / ... you saw/read/watched / listened . And you can follow your friends and by so , see what they 've been up to . It 's not really what you want , but it 's the closest I could find !
One solution I 've come up with may be to convert the PDF document to individual JPG images , then sync those ' photos ' via iTunes . They can then be viewed individually or as a slide show . Caveats are : limited resolution once iTunes downsamples the photos for syncing slideshow stops once you zoom in or manually disrupt it : ideally would like it to automatically continue ( hoping there is a better slide show app to do this ... )
<URL> For all my tracking needs I 've become a fan of Kinetic . Accuracy is good . The customizable screens mean you can tailor the view for the activity . For example : I have a simple screen for when I ride my bike that 's easy to access when I 'm moving fast , versus a more complicated screen I 'll use on hikes . The routes are <URL> in formats that Google Earth and Maps will happily read ( like <URL> ) .
You can do it with some AppleScript . This will create a new desktop every time you run it : You can save this as a Universal Service you can assign a globally-available shortcut key combination to call it . <URL> .
May be able just create a simlink to the / User directory . To do this , open up Terminal and enter : You 'll want to move your original Users folder out of the way ( rename it or move it or whatever ) . * Where [ SeperateDrivePath ] is the path to your volume just underneath the cloned / Users folder . Probably something like / Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name / . In this case , your clones / Users should exist at/Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name/Users .
To-Do 's If you just want to create a To-Do list , you might look at third-party solutions like : <URL> ( free ) which ' rests ' in the menubar and has a beautiful GUI . <URL> ( free ) which provides sync between OSX , Win , iOS and Android However , if you want to use a feature provided by OSX , try <URL> . It 's Apple 's program for taking notes . Very minimalistic and fast . format how you like edit with hyperlinks drag and drop pictures export as * . txt use & #x 2318 ; + N to create a new note use & #x 2325 ; + & #x 21E5 ; to create a list within the stickie with right-click you get to customize the list Contextual Menu item There used to be <URL> which added the Windows-like feature to OSX . Unfortunately , the software has n't been updated in years . There is commercial solution available now : <URL> This applications adds " Create Document ... " and " Create And Open Document ... " menus to various places , including the main menubar , the Dock , and the Services menu that the Finder shows when you right-click on something . You can also trigger Neu from any application using a special key combination .
I 'm not sure if this sends alerts , but it can monitor up to 250 IP addresses at whatever interval you like . It can display the host , status ( as green/yellow/red ) and ping time . On the app store for $ 1.99 : <URL>
You can pause the download while it 's in the " loading " stage by tapping the app icon ( tap again to resume ) , but I could n't find a way to actually cancel the download .
You could certainly script this . There are many approaches that would work . It depends on how comfortable you are with the various tools , and if your Mac automatically logs into a user account . If your Mac automatically logs into your account on powering on , consider using Automator or AppleScript , and <URL> . Automator and Twitter Consider combining this <URL> . You could send a private tweet when your account is logged in . Save the workflow as an application and add it your account 's Login Items : System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups Alternative Approaches If your Mac does not automatically log into a user account , you will need to use a shell script approach . Automator and AppleScript both require an active user session . You could use AppleScript or shell script for sending a messages or e-mail . Add <URL> or a <URL> for scheduling the event on start-up or login . This can all be integrated into <URL> as a trigger .
You could try <URL> It helped me troubleshoot my battery issues . I 'm not sure it will do exactly what you asked for but when you have it running ( on battery or power adapter ) : MiniBatteryLogger monitors your laptop 's battery , traces the graph of charge and amperage over time , compares your battery with other users , logs relevant power events and alerts you with Growl notifications . And right now it 's even free : We are undergoing some changes and can not issue licenses . ... In the meantime , you can use this evaluation key : <URL>
There are two , both from Facebook . It 's available in the Messages section of <URL> , as well as the standalone <URL> . The standalone app uses a denser interface , and would be an improvement if you were going to use this heavily , but the section of the complete app is n't much worse .
Yes , Download <URL> again from the <URL> and create a bootable USB from the new downloaded files . Either by using Disk Utility or by using <URL> . Full tutorial <URL>
<URL> will let you add custom URLs ( including ShoutCast server URLs ) to your bookmarks list and stream from them . It will also keep your playlists in sync across multiple devices , record streams for , find local streams using your current location and more . You but it <URL> . And when you 're at your Mac , you can use their browser-based desktop app to keep listening and access your bookmarks . To add a ShoutCast server as a custom URL use : Where : is the IP or host name of the machine hosting the ShoutCast server is the port where ShoutCast is broadcasting on the server is the name of the stream from ShoutCast is the number of the stream Once you add the custom stream to your bookmarks it should be available from any TuneIn Radio application or their web app .
The user buys an app for the price it is sold at that point . Future changes to the price have no effect on them . It is on their Apple ID that they own the app and they will be able to download the app for free as long as it 's available ( no matter the price ) .
Through the App Store ? No . Apple 's guidelines do n't allow apps to turn on or off Wifi . Jailbroken ? Yes . There are program such as <URL> that will do just what you want to do .
end question
