start question
What is a good GTD app with cloud sync on iPhone , iPad , and Mac ?
Check Wunderlist by 6Wunderkinder : <URL> It 's free . Iphone and ipad apps are available on itunes app store .
I do n't believe the subscriptions are synced , just the files . I imagine the reason for this is that if subscriptions synced , your Mac and iOS device would both download all new episodes , rather than having one copy that gets synced between them .
Simplenote has an iOS app and it syncs back to the Web , so can be accessed from the iOS device , and/or your Mac or PC . <URL> On your Mac , apps like Notational Velocity will also sync . There are apps for PCs well .
OS X Software for Editing XML <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( free/open source plugin ) for <URL> ( shareware ) <URL> ( commercial )
iOS 6 combines your phone number with your Apple ID email address , which makes it possible for others to iMessage your phone number and have those Messages sync across your devices . Whereas , previously , with iOS 5 , one had to use Apple ID email addresses only in order for it to sync across devices . First , you need to make sure all your devices are on the same Apple ID . On each iOS device ( iPhone , iPod Touch , iPad , iPad Mini ) : Open Settings.app Go to " Messages " and make sure iMessage is On . If iMessage is on , " Send &amp; Receive " will appear below it . Tap on it . Make note of the Apple ID at the top of the page . Select your phone number and email address ( es ) that you want to sync to that device . On each Mountain Lion Mac : Open Messages Click the " Accounts " tab in the top . Select your iMessage/Apple ID account , and make sure " Enable this account " is checked . Select your phone number and any email address ( es ) that you would like synced . The most important part is that everything is consistent across all the devices . Note that only new iMessages will sync - history will not . If you are still having trouble getting new iMessages to sync across the devices try : Disabling then re-enabling iMessage on each device that is n't being synced to . Delete all your previous conversations : <URL> that they had to delete all of their conversations before things would sync up . Make sure you have your phone number added to your <URL> .
I ended up being patient and did not make any purchases until recently when Age of Mythology : Extended Edition was released on <URL> . It includes the Titans expansion and is likely to have more content added like what was done for Age of Empires II on Steam . I do have to boot into Windows to play but it runs really well ( graphics look awesome ) through Steam .
There is no product that provides a stand and charger with a mic , but there are several external mics you can clip onto the iPhone . Some ( lower quality ) use the headphone jack , and some ( higher quality ) use the 30-pin docking port . Here are two examples : <URL> This mic uses the headphone jack . <URL> This mic uses the docking port , but has a pass-through USB connection that permits charging while the mic is in use .
What I ended up doing was purchasing the used mac from a 3rd party vendor , that offered a basic 1 year warranty for no additional charge .
Unfortunately no , but this is something I would also greatly appreciate .
What happens in your proposed case is that if you delete messages from the iPhone , and then power on your Mac , the Mac will not receive those deleted messages . EDIT : Well , folks , I stand corrected . I certainly believed the above to be the case , but my tests proved otherwise . I sent several messages from multiple devices to other devices that were powered down . Each message was deleted before the recipients were powered back on . Although there was a significant lag in reception ( one took nearly ten minutes ) , all messages that were sent were received , even those that were deleted . Several of the messages were out of sync , which does n't surprise me given the flakiness of the iMessage system during its infancy . However , to the original question , the answer is that messages , deleted or otherwise , eventually find their destination , even to devices that were powered down when those messages were transmitted . ( Hat tip to tubedogg for the correction . )
<URL> gives you the current version of Firefox in builds optimized for G3 , G4 and G5 PowerPC processors that runs on Mac OS 10.4 and 10.5 .
The radio frequencies and they respective power are regulated by official sources . In the USA , you will need to go to the FCC web site to get precise numbers for the radio power output . In order to search the <URL> , you will need the FCC ID of the device you want to lookup . All devices that use radio frequency spectrum are required to print their unique FCC ID on a label on the device . It may also be printed on a separate document that accompanies the device . Example for iPhone 4S WiFi radio .
If you prefer native and non web-based solution try Money app by Jumsoft <URL> Three client apps for Mac , iPhone , iPad . Featured : subcategories , simple scheduler , sync . Should be enough for personal finances .
Check this thread out <URL> otherwise you might ask directly on askubuntu . You can log in on askubuntu using your stackexchange credentials
For me , Hazel works best when I 'm using it in conjunction with other tools . On its own , in can seem a little lackluster or underwhelming , but when combined with other applications or used as the ' glue ' between them it really shines . One of my uses is to automatically organize PDFs of schedules from work . I 've got a Dropbox account , and make use of <URL> to allow me to email attachments straight into my Dropbox . The issue is that they 're not always consistently named , and I do n't feel like manually renaming them . I have Hazel watch the destination folder , and when a PDF arrives , whether its named 7.30 , 7/30 , 07-30 , etc , it automatically renames it , moves it to folder with other already acted on files , and archives away old versions . The result is that I have a nice archive of schedules , all consistently named/sorted . I use Hazel to help out with video encoding/tagging tasks . After encoding a file , Hazel picks up on it in the destination directory , and automatically renames it based on a consistent naming scheme . Once it does this , it applies a label to the file , and moves it to a new folder where files awaiting metadata live . Any file here gets passed through an automator script that adds some basic metadata ( show type , year , etc ) before passing it into <URL> for the final touches before throwing it into iTunes . It also handles more mundane tasks . Some trackers list . torrent files with a . txt extension . Hazel will monitor the downloads folder , and if a file with a . txt extension shows up , it checks the file 's " Where from " attribute , and if it matches a trackers website , it changes the extension to . torrent and moves the file into my Torrents directory so that Transmission can add it . There are times when I do n't need to see my Bootcamp volumes mounted on the desktop . Hazel can check for this volume , and it if sees it mounted , it 'll run a shell script to unmount it .
I 'd use evasi0n - it is fully compatible with the iOS 6 and hence the iPad Mini . The process if fully automatic . More about how to jailbreak here : <URL>
Yes , it does involve authentication by certificate . From <URL> from Apple : iOS supports VPN On Demand for networks that use certificated-based authentication . You specify which domains require a VPN connection by using a configuration profile . The VPN connection is made whenever the device tries to connect to certain domains . Specific apps do n't need to do anything ; as soon as they try to access such a server the VPN connection is initiated . Visit <URL> for information about how to use the Configuration Utility to create a configuration profile that sets up VPN On Demand .
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
Assuming you 've synced your contacts via Address Book then , if you want a deterministic way of syncing in addition to the periodic sync , you can invoke a sync manually from the menu bar app . OSX is a bit unpleasant in that it will only add this menu item if you set up iCloud , however , you can add this menu to your menu bar without iCloud :) To do so , you need to open a file called located in on your install volume ( usually ) . You should only need to open this file once and then the menu item will remain on your menu bar until you remove it and should persist through logins and reboots . If you want a quick terminal command to do the above then fire up Terminal and enter the following :
On your iPad , go to Settings → General → Storage &amp; iCloud Usage → Manage Storage → Music . <URL> From there , you can either Edit or directly swipe left on any artist to delete all their songs . If you just want to delete individual albums or songs , you can drill down by tapping an artist or album , respectively , then swipe left to delete each item one by one . If you want to go thermonuclear , you can simply swipe left on All Songs . Do note that this operation takes some time to complete , up to several minutes . So just let iOS do its work , and soon enough you should have your storage back . Once you 're done , in order to keep songs from being downloaded in the future , go back to Settings → iTunes &amp; App Store , then toggle Music Off under AUTOMATIC DOWNLOADS . <URL>
end question
start question
Why does my Mac have laggy/choppy Dock magnification effect ?
Unfortunately , a lot of the graphics on the MacBook Pro with Retina Display are a bit choppy ( for example , scrolling and window resizing ) . The new rMBP simply has a lot of pixels , and the graphics card is no better than the one in the regular MBP . In the next few years we can probably expect this to improve with further software optimizations and better hardware offerings . See also : <URL> ( MacRumors ) <URL> ( AnandTech )
First off , make sure you 've run AAM to update all components to latest : What happens when you set your displays to mirror ( command-F1 ) , launch Bridge , then revert back to extended ?
Page 27 of the September 2015 <URL> states that there is not a firewall on iOS . On other platforms , firewall software is needed to protect open communication ports against intrusion . Because iOS achieves a reduced attack surface by limiting listening ports and removing unnecessary network utilities such as telnet , shells , or a web server , no additional firewall software is needed on iOS devices .
Under the app in the list , there should be a description of which types of notification an app can send . Look through the list for apps that say ' Alerts ' or ' Sounds ' and disable the ' Alert Tone ' or ' Sounds ' respectively .
I was able to resolve the issue . I inspected the logs and noticed the PyDev plugin was searching for a Python 2.5 interpreter ( which had been installed on previous OS X installations ) . After I removed the Python 2.5 interpreter from PyDev 's list of configured interpreters , the issue vanished .
The only devices with Voice Control of any form , whether pre-iOS 5 " Voice Command " or iOS 5 + " Siri " , is an iPhone 3GS or later , and the 4th Generation iPod touch . All iPhones since the 3GS and iOS 3 ( IIRC ) have Voice Command . iPhone 4/4S ' on iOS 5 or later have Siri , unless disabled then Voice Command is used instead . iPod touches do not have Siri , though the fourth generation does have Voice Command . No iPad has Voice Command nor Siri . This is true of all models and iOS versions as of this writing .
Some obvious causes : Need to wait 30 to 60 seconds for the SMC to read the battery and decide what to do check for pencil lead/debris on the mac end of the magsafe check for pins stuck down on the magsafe cord end of things The <URL> on the Mac The battery , all adapter or charging circuitry itself is faulty or detecting something that causes a pause and the mac might need service . ( This is exactly what your mac will do if it needs an 85 watt adapter but you 've somehow gotten your " friend 's " 65 watt adapter - if your adapter is n't putting out enough power , the mac can only run and not support the CPU/GPU load as well as the charging circuitry . Similarly , if the battery is drawing more than designed , the mac will prefer to run than charge and tells you this in the not charging message . ) Due to the way batteries work , they can be out of range at only a certain voltage range so initially it will be good until you reach that one point where the voltage drops too fast and shows aging or a problem with the cells . Do a <URL> at your earliest convenience and think about a visit to the genius bar or other service desk if the problem continues . Take your wall adapter with you when you go as it can be checked with the mac together .
My suspicion is that the Instagram app was programmed for the older OS and needs an update . You could check their support forums , but it also might be something you just wait out for the next few app updates to post from the vendor . It also could just be server side changes - if your iPad is n't served the complete resolution images , you wo n't have them . ( i.e. the problem might not exist on your device at all ) .
I would n't have believed a single ranting tweet , but the UK 's Daily Mail also covered this recently - so it 's actually likely to be true , for any given value of ' true ' [ my own opinions on the Mail 's foil-hat , ranty , opinionated style aside ... ] <URL>
Use <URL> . It 's free now as it 's not as effective in Mountain Lion as it used to be .
Yes , the USB ports are powered . In fact , they are designed to power the <URL> , which draws more power than most USB ports support .
Your 10.9.5 and your Router are having problem of identity . Your 10.9.5 can not find the correct name , or your router is not broadcasting it correctly . So try changing the name of your Network , and make sure it is moved to the Top of the Network list and choose different Chanel . Also you could <URL> ones . I would not panic but on they web site they skipped 10.9.5 ( Mavericks ) and call it Yosemite ? Probably just a stupid typo :) Mac OS X 10.7 Lion Mac OS X 10.8 Mountain Lion Mac OS X 10.9 Yosemite
It may be a bug , but I am thinking it may mean your Spotlight index is corrupt . I just tried deleting Evernote from my Applications folder . After authenticating , it moved it to the trash . I then checked launchpad again , and it was no longer there . Then , when I dragged it back out of the trash and placed back into Applications folder . Relaunched launchpad , and it was there again on the last page . As in , worked as expected here . Launchpad keeps its own plist of what files there are , etc , and thats why there are some modification tools to allow to you to edit it . But I am assuming they would use spotlight to ' watch ' your Applications folder to add new items not through the Mac App Store . I assume Spotlight because its a great tool for the job , installing Lion does a huge spotlight re-index , and they do use spotlight often behind the scenes . First , the GUI way <URL> ( I do the command line way below ) : In system 's preferences - > spotlight - > Privacy add the drive you want to re-index Quit System 's preferences Logout of your sessions Login again :-) In system 's preferences - > spotlight - > Privacy remove the drive you want to re-index Wait . . a faily long time . You should see mdworker and/or mds running Personally , I have always done it <URL> . Launch ' Terminal ' ( located in / Applications/Utilities / ) At the command prompt , type this exactly : sudo mdutil - E / You will be asked for your password , provide it , as this command requires administrator privelages to run You will receive a confirmation message saying that index will be rebuilt Wait until index is finished rebuilding , this can take a while depending on the size of your hard drive , amount of files , etc. . While I ca n't find any documentation online that 100 % confirms that Launchpad uses Spotlight for this , this would be the first place I would look for the problem you are having .
<URL> and <URL> are your friends . A <URL> is due to bad memory management of the application . Basically , it allocates memory but fails to release it when finished . Therefore , as the application continues to run , it keeps allocating free memory until there is no more . The fact that certain browsers use more or less memory has nothing to do with there being a memory leak . Chrome likes to have individual processes for each tab or session ( more memory ) where Firefox does the opposite . Memory is cheap now so there is less of a need to be efficient , but there is a need for higher performance . The real issue is what to do about memory leaks - since most people do n't reprogram and self-patch a program like FireFox - you can quit a program that has leaks or just log out . Mac OS ( as well as most other operating systems ) then release all the leaked memory and return it to the system pool . Leaks happen , so as an educated user you can watch for them and tend to leaky programs as opposed to letting them run continually .
You may be just reading the wrong figure in Disk Utility , have a look at the quote below from the <URL> Disk Utility will show two different " free " readings , depending on where you look . Sounds odd , but they 're for different purposes . The larger figure , which the Finder and other things will use , is the total free space available . The second is the amount of free space available for a new partition . It 's shown when you select the top line for the drive , click the Partition tab , then select a partition , the " Available " amount may be smaller . This is because partitions , unlike folders , must occupy contiguous space on a disk . The data on your OSX partition is scattered over it , not all nicely packed together . That 's normal , as you add , update , and delete files , not every nook and cranny is used again immediately . But whether there 's 7 GB free or 18 , that probably is n't enough to be adding a partition ; it 's probably too little for OSX to operate well . There 's no " hard and fast " rule , but you should always have at least 10 GB or 10 % of your OSX drive free ; many folks say 15 % or more . You could back up your drive ( on two different HDs , to be safe ) , reformat it to 2 parttions , then restore the backup . But it 's going to be very tight , and you 'll likely have performance problems because of it . Try to delete anything you do n't need , and/or offload stuff you do n't use often and delete it .
The new iPad , like all iPads , have a combined audio input/output jack , like the iPhone and newer MacBooks . The Genius was correct : Griffin cable should have worked . If it did n't , either the cable or the iPad was faulty . One other possibility is that it was the software . This is n't very likely , but it 's possible that the software you were using had some sort of compatibility issue with the new iPad .
Note that there are usually two ways of installing applications on Mac OS X : A simple and common way is to send the user an application bundle . The user can copy it to whichever directory ( s ) he feels like it . Typically , applications are copied/moved to the / Applications directory and can be moved around the filesystem ( or to other filesystems ) . Another way is to provide an installer . Installers are helpful in case there 's need for pre - / post-flight scripts or specific directories . So , answering your questions : In Mac/Unix since there is no control panel , I could be installing same dmg again and again . I would never get repair option ? Although there is something similar to Control Panel , namely System Preferences.app , there is no stock application to manage applications ( list , install , remove ) . Since most users install applications to the / Applications directory , listing applications is done via inspecting the directory , installing applications is done via copying/moving application bundles to that directory , and removing applications is done via removing application bundles from that directory . Yes , it is possible for a user to install the same application repeatedly -- but I ca n't really imagine a use case for that . Maybe you 're asking this because of a ' repair option ' ? What would that do ? If you 're considering the case where an application bundle gets corrupted by some reason then it could be just a matter of copying the application bundle again . Why are Volume and mount required ? . Is n't the installation on unix like copying files to a target system ? . dmg volumes are not required to install applications . A developer/distributor can ship an application bundle in a . zip file , or a . tar file , or a compressed . tar file . Many developers prefer to ship applications via a . dmg volume because it is possible to customise the appearance of the volume when it is mounted -- custom background , custom icons , custom icon sizes , or a link to the / Applications directory to make it easier for the user to copy the application bundle to that location .
Yet the the dock is designed to just provide charging power and to hold the device , there is no line out on the dock . This is incorrect . The description for this device <URL> ( sorry , I could n't find any information on it that was n't on a for-sale site ) has this feature listed : Built-in , 0.125-inch stereo line-out audio jack lets you attach an audio cable directly to your stereo , or run the included cassette adapter into your stereo 's tape cassette player Apparently the device does have an line out on it some place . And this is why your headphone and volume controls are disabled when you dock your phone in it .
Yes , it has two physical buttons on the edge lacking the battery tray . The two rubber feet on the bottom-front of the trackpad press against internal switches . For these to activate , you have to use it on a hard surface . The software tap-to-click that senses your finger pad deforming as it taps the immovable glass surface also will trigger a tap independently from the physical buttons .
It turns out that there is SATA 3 on board , it just was n't enabled until 4 May 2011 . The Other World Computing <URL> has the details : While <URL> is described as including " fixes that improve performance and stability for Thunderbolt , " it would also seem that an unadvertised benefit is that it also unlocks the full 6Gb/s , SATA 3.0 capabilities of two of the internal drive bays . Unfortunately , the optical bay remains at 3Gb/s .
end question
start question
Is there a way to access the menubar icons using the keyboard ?
If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " checked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " unchecked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + Fn + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar Although the leftmost user-installed ones on my computer can not be accessed , you can then use the cursor keys to move ← → and ↓ to bring up the menu associated with the icon . In addition , Ctrl + F2 ( or Ctrl + Fn + F2 ) moves keyboard focus to the menubar items .
I posted about this on the Google Groups for iTerm2 . The program author has now added to the program the option to rotate clockwise .
Yes , you have a choice of three built in methods for clearing the clipboard . AppleScript/Automator are two simple methods for programmatically manipulating the clipboard . Here 's a little script that does what you want . Also , Automator allows the same . You 'll need to define a variable , double click on the name text to set it to null , and then drag in the set clipboard action before running / saving it . The benefit of using automator is that you can assign it as a service and then use system keyboard shortcuts to call it . For AppleScript or one of the nice terminal answers here that use you might want to look at a free tool like <URL> to launch the action from anywhere .
Yes - you can find large files in many ways . In the finder search field type size : > 9000 and add a size field if you wish in the list view to sort descending . Add zeroes to the number to get less results back for your file sizes . This does n't work well for network backups in my experience due to lag or incomplete spotlight databases . If that does n't work , get a tool made to analyze Time Machine backups like BackupLoupe . It is crafted specifically to efficiently scan time machine backup drives and network volumes . It creates a comprehensive backup database of all the files and revisions that would make your size query a snap . <URL> Install the app Let it index one or more intervals Use the app 's find window to sort on size after setting the search criteria as follows : Type is directory and match type of none of the following is true <URL> It also helps to reveal the files in Finder so you could decide to remove that file across backups or just to delete that interval entirely . <URL> <URL> Since Time Machine stores each backup in folders , you could unleash any other tool ( DaisyDisk , Grand Perspective , WhatSize or other ) on the backup , but they do n't know how to interpret hard links and may take days or months to make a picture that does n't represent the actual storage allocations . BackupLoupe is smarter than the existing tools and does n't double count hard linked files . It also runs in the background if you wish . Lastly , it reads a database file summarizing the backups so the results are near instantaneous and you do n't even need the backup drive mounted to do the reporting .
Mac Bartender I 've been struggling with this problem for quite some time as well and I think I 've finally found a good solution . I 'm using <URL> which is in free beta at the time of writing . The app has a lot of useful features for cleaning up an overflowing menubar . For each menubar icon you can choose to : Display it normally Completely hide it Display it in the menubar when Mac Bartender is activated Display it in the Bartender Bar when Mac Bartender is activated One thing to note is that it does n't let you manage the built-in OSX ' menulets ' ( wifi , sound , spotlight , etc ) yet , but that feature is coming according to their <URL> . Messy Menubar Clean Menubar Bartender Bar From the official site Take control of your Menu Bar With Bartender you can choose which apps stay in the Menu Bar , are displayed in Bartenders Bar or Hidden completely . Bartenders Bar Can be displayed and hidden as you want , by clicking on the Bartender Icon or via a hot key . Minimalism If you want a really clean look and privacy , Bartender can also be hidden . Menu Bar Apps still work the same Apps still work the same when they are in Bartenders Bar allowing you quick access to them when needed , but keep them out of sight when not . Bartenders Bar can be placed where you want Bartenders Bar can be moved at any time to any horizontal position immediately under the Menu Bar . Or it can open under the Bartender Menu Bar Icon . Show an App in the Menu Bar for 5 seconds when it updates Set up your Apps to be displayed in the Menu Bar for 5 seconds when they update . Hide Menu from left of Menu Bar to display maximum Menu Bar Apps Bartender can remove the left hand side Menu temporarily to display the maximum possible Menu Bar Apps in the Menu Bar .
As far as I know there is no way to email a link to something you have got to inside a native iOS app , in your case , a set of instructions . I believe however that you can email a set of instructions as a link from the google maps website , which you can access in safari . Hope this helps in some form .
This is not supported by the default calendar app at the moment . An app called <URL> from the App Store might be what you 're looking for . Its listed features include : Works seamlessly together with all iPhone supported calendars ( Google Calendar , CalDAV , Outlook , Exchange , iCal ) . Snooze function with intervals of your choice .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
Depending on what you are trying to do with the link , it may be sufficient to drag it . If you click and drag a link in Safari , you can drop it in many places and get the desired functionality . For example , if you drop it in a text editor , it will drop the link URL ( for plain text ) or a formatted link using the title from the page . If you drop it on your desktop , you will get a webloc file . If you drop it on the Safari URL bar or tab , that tab will load the link . If you really need to copy the link , one possibility is to use spotlight as a easy-access text field . Start dragging the link , hit Command + space ( or whatever you have it set to ) to pop up spotlight , drop it in the search field , and copy .
Its an implementation detail that the developer has to implement , in your example case for Office its Microsoft . Here is the Cocoa Objective-C code that allows the developer to implement this feature : What your observing is normal behavior on almost all Applications on OS X and even the classic <URL> . Its one of those thing you should get use to on the Mac . However , these days you are in luck that things are changing in your favor in Lion and probably later as OS X gains more features from iOS . As referenced in <URL> . Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination . Clearly it looks like that version of Microsoft Office does not support Automatic Termination yet , but it may be coming . So for now the most you can do is check the programs preferences for options relating to quitting the application when it has no more windows open . Also I encourage you to give Microsoft and or any developer of Apps feedback that you would like see " quitting on last window closed " as a preference option or suggest they add support for Automatic Termination to their products . Until then just remember to use ⌘ + Q when you are done with those applications that do not automatically quit when you close all its windows .
You can read the recent items plist file . There 's a lot of " noise " in the output . You can filter the " noise " with and list the last entry with which should be the last file opened ( but not always the case ) .
As they say in the iPhone world , <URL> :-) It 's called <URL> .
Yes , it is possible , however the only way I know of doing it also hides the dock icon . you must modify the file named ' Info.plist ' inside the Application 's package ( i.e. Sherlock.app / Contents/Info . plist ) . Open this file in your favorite text editor and add the following section ( if it 's already present simply change the 0 to a 1 in the string tag : <URL> In OS X 10.8 + , use this instead ( note LS instead of NS ) :
You will have to jailbreak your iPhone to password-protect the Mail app . Sorry , there 's no other way . :-) I ran across <URL> , which has three apps for password protecting iOS apps . Lockdown Pro FolderLock Locktopus All are paid apps . <URL> mentions an app called iAppLocker . It is free . Hope this helps you !
If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " checked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " unchecked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + Fn + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar Although the leftmost user-installed ones on my computer can not be accessed , you can then use the cursor keys to move ← → and ↓ to bring up the menu associated with the icon . In addition , Ctrl + F2 ( or Ctrl + Fn + F2 ) moves keyboard focus to the menubar items .
you are right changing the names may have unforeseen consequences later . You can make a new folder somewhere . Named Apps . Or what ever you want to name it . Then create alises to the applications Placing the aliases in the new folder . You can name the aliases what ever you like and have the new folder in the dock . 1 , Create the Aliases . Drag Applications to your new folder . They should automatically choose to be alias files because you are dragging from the Applications folder . The cursor should become a curved arrow while you are dragging . If not then hold down the alt + cmd keys to make the copies allies files . 2 , Now rename the alias files what ever you want . This will not affect the real files . I have just named some of them here 3 , Place the Folder in the Dock . And now when you go to it the Alias file will look like the real apps . Have your names and open the real apps . You can Also just place any of the Alias files directly on the Dock .
Since Mail does not have a predefined filter ( in Smart Mailboxes ) to get the 50 last received messages , I can imagine you could achieve something like this in an AppleScript . The AppleScript should : get every message in Inbox sort the list by date select all but the most recent 50 ones delete selected Then , create a Mail rule that will be triggered whenever a new email arrives ( e.g. you could trigger it on the condition that Recipient contains an " @ " or that Sender is not empty ) , and have the rule execute your AppleScript . To get you started on how to write an AppleScript that processes Mail messages , see the script you can find in :
There 's no default , but you could probably use AppleScript to accomplish this . Hmm ... EDIT : Make an AppleScript to run this shell script :
Assuming your running Snow Leopard & #x 2318 ; + space will open Spotlight which can be used to run terminal . Spotlight can be bound to another key combination but the default is similar to Windows + R.
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
end question
start question
How can I have ClickToFlash except for YouTube ?
bmike 's comment prodded me into actually , y' know , reading <URL> , which led me to find that the whitelists are in fact substring matches . Therefore these settings work : I had to find the URL by looking at the source of a page with a YouTube embedding .
There should be a preference thing on YouTube to select HTML5 , but they 've reorganized the page so many times since I last tracked it down that I have no idea where it is now . Instead , I have ClickToFlash installed ( it 's under " Most Popular " in the Safari Extensions Gallery ) ; open its preferences ( Safari Preferences ... > Extensions ) and you can tell it to always use HTML5 for YouTube and other sites that support HTML5 in place of Flash .
There are a few extensions that will add a nice download button to the Youtube video page , and give you the option to download in various resolutions . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also try <URL> , which does a lot more than just offer a download link , but it does that , and it 's one of my favourite extensions . Makes watching web video much nicer .
To jailbreak with Absinthe they tell you to erase all data just because the software works faster , but you can do it with all your info . It will only take more time . I recommend you to use the last version of Absinthe . To remove jailbreak you have to restore your idevice . ( it will restore with the last iOS version at the moment ) .
Yes , add another keyboard to you iPhone . I did it with Russian , follow <URL> , pretty easy . Activating the keyboards is straight forward . Tap the " Settings " icon and then select " General " . Then scroll down and select " Keyboard " and then " International Keyboards " . There you will see the long list of languages available -- simply flicking the toggle to " ON " will activate the keyboard . You can activate as many as you like . Now that more than one language keyboard has been activated you will see a small globe key on all keyboards . Simply tap the globe key to toggle between all the installed keyboards . Simple , elegant and clever .
While I 'm not abosultely sure , how achieved my result , but after a reboot the update for one app-store app is gone now . What I did : the following is tested on old Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app ( free from appstore ) , before my tests the app-store showing an available update for it . Right click on app , select Show package contents go to " Contents " Move the following files and folders to some backup place ( folder ) reboot If that does n't work , remove these additional items from the package contents : - ( folder ) - ( alias ) Maybe it is not enough , ( in my tests i did the following too ) , try : Go to ( alt-click on Finder 's Go menu , select Library ) Caches move to backup location the folder reboot After the above steps , the AppStore do n't showing the available update for the " Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app " . Warning : all the above is tested only in one app , need more testing , it is absolutely without any warranty and do n't blame me when your computer will burn , get grabbed by extraterrestrial aliens or anything other ...
There are many third-party virtual keyboard instruments . Do a search at the kvraudio.com virtual instrument news site . Anything that is in Audio Unit ( AU ) format will work with GarageBand . <URL> I have prepared for you . Popular products you might consider : Anything by <URL> <URL> Buying Apple Logic Express or Logic Studio will give you all the Apple Jam Pack sounds in one purchase , with many other features besides . <URL> and <URL> . Finally , read <URL> . They provide a lot of coverage and reviews of products in this category .
I asked at an Apple store , and basically the answer is " no " . The best workaround we could come up with is creating a Youtube account , making a playlist on Youtube , adding all the videos I want to that , and then playing them through AppleTV . It 's not exactly convenient , though .
The Apple TV does n't support YouTube closed captioning . The closed captioning you 've enabled is where video files have subtitles . The same functionality was missing on the pre-iOS 6 YouTube app , so I 'm not surprised that it does n't exist on the Apple TV . If you want to submit feedback to Apple about this , you can do so <URL> .
You 'll want a tool that lets you script the changes so you can roll them in and out or perhaps get fancy and script it based on the detected network connection interface . I would start by evaluating <URL> to see if it fits your needs or at least can give you a leg up on the processes that are connecting in case you care to just control them . I would n't be surprised if Little Snitch were controllable from the command line - but have n't used it lately to know for sure .
Greenpois0n rc5 Has been released and can do an untethered jailbreak on 4.2.1 without older SHSH blobs . <URL>
Executive summary : I do n't believe this is possible , at least not for volumes formatted as HFS + . My current understanding is that HFS + chooses its file system block size ( separate from the physical device block size ) according to a fixed <URL> that can not be manually overruled . Discussions in other forums spanning from 2002 to 2011 ( <URL> , <URL> among others ) suggest using <URL> , which has a option , to manually set the block size when creating a new file system . I tried using on various kinds of partitions , on both . dmg diskimages and on physical SATA hard drives ( through SATA < - > USB interface ) and with various file systems ( HFS + , FAT16 , FAT32 . ) When I ran with different - b sizes ( 512 , 1024 , 2048 , 4096 , 8192 , ) indeed it reported success in creating the filesystems with the specified block sizes . I could mount &amp; read/write these volumes normally . But when I examine the test volumes with ( where is disk1 , disk4 , or whatever your disk is ) , I always see : Noting that the end of the man page includes this tidbit : It would appear that OS X 10.8 ( and probably 10.7 , and perhaps earlier versions ) overrides whatever block size claims to create , in favor of default sizes imposed by a higher authority . ( ?? ) One article I came across suggested using OS X 's software-RAID utility to create a RAID mirror . Software RAID allows one to specify a RAID stripe size , but as this is generally geared towards improving throughput for large files rather than tiny ones , I believe the minimum RAID stripe size is 4KB - not useful for your purposes .
At the moment , you ca n't really do this . Although I suspect that Apple are looking to integrate iOS and Mac OSX in the future so that this sort of thing can be done ( purely speculation ) . GarageBand on the Mac is different to the iPad version ( it 's more comprehensive ) and it has indeed been out on the Mac for far longer than on the iPad . It is possible to run iOS apps in the iPhone Simulator that comes with Xcode . However , it 's not as simple as downloading from the AppStore . You 'd have to get the source code for the app , compile it in Xcode and run in the simulator . Most apps being closed source , this wont be possible !
You can easily check the model of the device using information found in Settings > General > About and a simple Google search . . Open the Settings app and select General . From the General * pane select * About . Scroll down in the About pane until you find the Model . Type the model number into a Google search box . That should be sufficient , but you can add additional search terms like Apple or iPod Touch if need be .
They use a format called <URL> . YouTube and other video sites deliver content in this format also ( so that their videos are viewable on iPad/iPod touch ) . One advantage of H. 264 is that hardware based encoding/decoding can be used . See also Steve Jobs 's <URL> H. 264 is one of the formats for video support in the latest version of HTML , HTML 5 . Apple supports this in Safari and Google in Chrome * . * Google recently <URL> that it will no longer support H. 264 in the future versions of Chrome . Because of this H. 264 is kind of hot of late . See <URL> <URL> .
Try the following steps : 1 : Start the video from YouTube whilst in Safari . 2 : Hit Home key once . You 'll exit Safari and playback will stop . 3 : Double-tap Home key to bring up the app-switcher . Slide to the right to bring up background audio controls . The icon on the right side will show whichever program you last used with background audio : Safari . 4 : Press Play . Youtube audio will resume playback .
Developers registered with Apple 's <URL> can <URL> of Mac OS X for development and testing purposes . The screenshot below shows OS X Mountain Lion is still available to developers .
You can not . Apple has retired the ability to get a new @me . com email address , just like they did for the @mac . com email addresses back in 2008 . Existing accounts are grandfathered in , but you are unfortunately out of luck .
TexShop should ship with a Spotlight importer that does the job . If not , you can try this homemade solution : <URL>
Like everything else you purchase in the Mac App Store , you can install Lion on all of your Macs after buying it once . There is no activation process or DRM . Here 's the relevant excerpt from Lion 's license agreement ( emphasis mine ) : If you obtained a license for the Apple Software from the Mac App Store , then subject to the terms and conditions of this License and as permitted by the Mac App Store Usage Rules set forth in the App Store Terms and Conditions ( http://www.apple.com/legal/itunes/ww/ ) ( " Usage Rules " ) , you are granted a limited , non-transferable , non-exclusive license : ( i ) to download , install , use and run for personal , non-commercial use , one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software directly on each Apple-branded computer running Mac OS X Snow Leopard or Mac OS X Snow Leopard Server ( " Mac Computer " ) that you own or control ;
end question
start question
ShellShock : Do I need to be worried about this on OS X Mavericks ?
I would err on the side of caution and wipe any server that you see odd behavior on that was exposed to the public internet in general without a logging firewall and/or some sort of tripwire or security scan set up to compare what changed since installation . I think one of my OS X servers was compromised for the first time ever during this bash scripting vulnerability window . The time it would take me to search for a root kit is far longer than the time it took me to make one last backup and then wipe it from an external drive and start over . In my case , I had a new user named A Lo created as a standard user . Pretty odd and very un-subtle of someone that manages to gain control of a server with a fixed IP address . Basically , the more sophisticated black hat that has compromised your computer - the less likely you will notice it so from a reliability standpoint - if you notice instability it 's likely cause the people that have compromised your server are inept or sloppy and will cause you to eventually have to reinstall . Just to be clear , any server that 's hidden behind a router with NAT is far less vulnerable than a server running live services 24/7 with a real , static IPv4 and no firewall whatsoever . People that just run OS X should have no concerns at all unless they have other reasons to think they are compromised .
<URL> states this clearly : To download OS X Server , developers should access the iOS or Mac developer portal to retrieve an App Store redemption code . If you have iOS development program go to : <URL> Scroll down Click Get download code Redeem the code Download your free version of OS X Server 3.0.3 This text is next to the button : OS X Server 3.0.3 Includes Xcode Server to enable continuous integration . Works with Xcode 5 to configure bots that automatically build and test your apps . Requires OS X Mavericks .
1 ) As you clarified in the comments , you have used your GMail account for instant messaging using Adium . My guess would be that Adium took your OS X account picture ( or you assigned it manually ) and synchronized it with Google . It should be easy to verify this by changing your contact picture in Adium . I ca n`t test it right now , but will try later and also try to come up with a solution to turn of the synchronization . 2 ) <URL> But I do n't think that OS X has anything to do with it , since I believe that the updating of your GMail avatar was done by Adium .
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
MacFUSE is no longer being developed , and there 's many bugs with it in Mavericks . FUSE for OS X was the continuation of this development and still works well in Mavericks . I recommend that you uninstall MacFUSE and instead use FUSE for OS X. ntfs-3g in Mavericks requires this install procedure : <URL> You should know if you need FUSE -- if you do n't need it , there are official removal instructions : <URL>
Also , OnyX seems to be the popular choice for those looking for a Mac equivalent to CCleaner . <URL>
If you can bring the image into Disk Utility , use the convert option . Choose CD/DVD master , it will save as a . cdo . Rename to . iso .
Here is <URL> to create a ramdisk : It is actually two commands ; if you run them individually , you get : The first command creates a block storage device in RAM , and the second command formats it with the standard OS X filesystem . If you run to see how much free space is on your disks , you 'll get : Note how it shows that the RAM Disk is using 1165424 ' 512-blocks ' ( which , if you run , for human readable output , you 'll see is ' 569 Mi ' ) . So , the answer is , change the number you specify in the first command , which specified how large the disk is in 512 byte blocks . If you want 1.5 GB ( or , perhaps I should say ' <URL> ' , go as follows : To verify , I 'll run the following commands : It sounds like <URL> , but that is not the case in Snow Leopard and newer . Also , there are tools to help create RAM disks without calculating blocks yourself . I have n't used them , but here are three : <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
Edit Find the line that says and uncomment it by editing out the # at the beginning of the line . ( Then save the file , obviously . ) Go to Terminal and type at the console :
The original Apple charger has an output limited to 2.1 A at 5.1 V. I occasionally charge my iPad 2 Wifi with the old charger of my passed Palm Pre . It provides an amperage of 1 A at standard 5 V USB voltage . I do n't know if you can go even lower than 1 A , but the standard USB amperage of .5 A is not enough to charge it . It should n't be a problem to get a car charger that is capable of handling 1 A , more is better . Make sure you buy one , that is capable of charging an iPhone as Apple devices tend to observe the USB standards and try to communicate with the charger . Some dumb China elcheapo chargers may not have USB logic inside and your iDevices could refuse to charge .
Which model of Mac Pro do you have ? If it really is a 2006 model , that sounds like a MacPro1 ,1 , which is n't supported after Lion ( 10.7 ) as it has 32-bit EFI even though its CPU ( s ) are 64-bit . The fact that you have a Radeon X1900 , which was an option on the 2006 model , suggests that you may well be out of luck when it comes to upgrading . Mavericks system requirements are <URL> - as you can see , only early 2008 and later Mac Pros are supported . That said , if you 're that way inclined , there are ways of getting Mavericks ( and Yosemite , in fact ) working on unsupported machines - see <URL> , for example , or <URL> from LowEndMac . Basically , you need to use a <URL> to boot the newer versions of the operating system . Should any of the earlier links expire , searching for " Tiamo boot.efi " should find an updated link . You will also need to replace your graphics card - newer versions of Mac OS no longer support the X1900 . You can confirm the exact model number by checking - > and then verifying the Model Identifier . Basically Update 2015-08-3 : Add further detail , add Yosemite detail
I have done the setup before . You wo n't get hardware acceleration but the setup does work and if your not doing any work that requires hardware acceleration it should be fine . I previously did demos for Tech-Ed on gaming development using this setup without any problems . For hardware acceleration you will need to use Boot Camp .
You could create a smartlist that only includes songs with the status Matched , Uploaded and Purchased .
You can do something to try to make your macbook run a bit cooler : If you are using an external monitor you can disable the internal screen , while leaving the lid open . This reduces the stress on the GPU and improves cooling : use a ( very small ) magnet to make the macbook think that the lid is closed . See my answer here : <URL> You can disable the CPU turbo boost . One easy way is using this utility : <URL> Also , make sure you have trim configured on your SSD .
You do n't get invisibility using Apple 's Messages app on OS X. <URL> , so perhaps it 's a limitation of their API and only something you can set using their web app . They get to serve you ads when you are on the web , but not on a client so perhaps that was a factor in deciding to code that function in one place over the other . Apple 's Messages app on OS X will set an invisible status for AIM accounts , but not for Google Talk , so it 's less like a Messages oversight as an account/API design issue from Google .
You can set your payment details to none when you set up your Apple ID . This way you can download free content without the use of a creditcard .
Unless you 've already found it , how about something like <URL> ? It seems to have been published in 2009 and references Leopard in the description , so may also be a little out of date , but from the <URL> seems to have a reasonable amount of information about security and OS X internals . May be a bit left field for what you want though ... ? Or for something newer ( due to be publishe June 2012 ) how about <URL> ?
Requirements iPhone / iPad running iOS8 Mac running OS X 10.10 Yosemite How to Record iPhone/iPad Screen on OS X Yosemite Connect the iPhone/iPad to Mac via USB Open the QuickTime Player on the Mac Select Quicktime will default select iSight camera , click on the arrow alongside the record button to select the iPhone/iPad . Click on the record button to record the iPhone/iPad Screen
If you have a number of events you want to enter and you have their times in another zone , it 's very handy to use Calendar 's time zone support . First , go to Calendar - > Preferences , and click Turn on time zone support . This will enable a dropdown in the titlebar of your Calendar window : You can then use this menu to change the display of everything in your calendar to a new time zone . Pull it down and select Eastern time ( or whatever other time zone or city your event is in ) , and Calendar will convert all your times to that zone . At this point , you can start entering events , using the times listed in the program for the event . You will also see a new detail in the event detail popup : This shows what time zone the event is in . Once you 've entered all the events , turn the time zone back . That will display all your events in your own time zone . If you are syncing with your phone ( which knows what time zone it is in ) all the events will remind you at the right time .
I 'm going to resume them by memory , so future edits will probably fix all the mess I might type now :) The File Structure of OSX resembles a typical Unix/Linux operating system ( which in fact is the root of it all ) , albeit with some " Apple " differences . Some of those differences have aliases to keep the " unix " heart happy , but some are simply modified to be used as such . In short here are the major " folders " in your file system : / Applications : This one is self explanatory , all your Mac 's apps should go there ( unless you have an app that you want to be visible for only one user ... ) . Normal users can read , " admins " can also drop things in there . / Developer : if you install Xcode and the developer libraries , this folder will magically bring the unicorns for developing awesome Cocoa apps , iOS apps and dashboard widgets among other things . Otherwise the folder does n't even exist . / Library : Shared libraries , and files necessary for OS X to actually function . Preferences , settings , app stuff , browser plug-ins ( or more specifically , how to get rid of Adobe 's Flash ) ;) You usually do n't tamper around here , but it 's normal if you want to clear some Apps settings , fix something , remove or install browser plugins , extensions , etc. . Sometimes you will venture into / Library . Handle with care and always backup before breaking stuff here . It would be hard to destroy an OS X install by tampering / Library , but it 's possible ... / Network : All network libraries , servers , devices , etc. . You should n't be here unless you know what you 're doing and want to bypass GUI utilities . In almost 7 years of OSX , I 've never touched this directory . / System : Everything that OS X needs to properly function is here . I 'd say that you should n't touch anything or problems will arise . / Users : This is the equivalent to Unix and Linux 's / home directory . And here you will have sub directories for each of your users : / Users/John , / Users/Doe , etc. . Inside your home folder you will have a " similar " structure . See later for more / Users ' love . / Volumes : Mounted stuff/devices and volumes , real or virtual ( think of CDs , DMGs , samba shares , etc ) , get their own " directory " here . So if you mount a smb share called MyShare , you can ' cd / Volumes/MyShare ' to access it from the Command Line . The Finder will happily hide this from you ( unless you set it to show invisible files I think ) . / bin : What else can be said about bin that you do n't know already from your Linux knowledge . Same thing . If you install ' git ' for example , it will go to / usr/local/git ... so you get the idea . Obviously all the essential common binaries are here too . Think the command ' ls ' ... it 's there , in all its glory . / etc : Oh the great " etcetera " ... Just like any other Unix , local system configs and ... etcetera . It 's " similar " to any other unix , with some Apples . But the purpose is the same and some of the files ( rc.local for example ) exist . Go ahead and take a look , but if you break it , you have to pay for it . ( OS X uses ' launchd ' to launch stuff , so google for that if you want to - for example - start a subversion daemon at startup , forget all you knew about runlevels ) . Otherwise , get insurance between tweaking too much in there , because it 's not covered by Apple Stack 's Exchange damaging policy ;) / dev : honoring it 's " unix " background , the device files representing peripherals are here . Who touches this anyway ... / usr : I googled for a good description of this and came up with a clever one : " Second major hierarchy , includes subdirectories that contain information , configuration files , and other essentials used by the operating system " / sbin : Also coming from the Unix nature of OSX , the system binaries , and administration utilities . These are not the droids you 're looking for , move along , move along . / tmp : The one and only temp directory ! Batteries not included . Note that this is not the " trash " . This is the real Unix temp . Unless you like being around waste , you should n't have to wander around there . Cron jobs will keep it clean ( tho it does n't hurt to restart your OSX every now and then ) . / var : Var is for variable data . Logs , and stuff that will " vary " during the operating system operation . You rarely walk through these rapidly changing places , but sometimes you have to hunt for logs or errors . Bring and umbrella there , it changes very often ... Ok and what 's with this / Users thing ? The Users folder contains your ' home ' . You have easy to identify folders ( i.e. : if you ca n't identify what Music , Documents , Movies , Downloads , Desktop and Pictures are for , then the problem might lie elsewhere ) , but at the same time , there are notable " duplicates " . What ? yes . You have a Library and an Applications folder here too ! I believe you 're already guessing what is all this about . Yes , all application settings that are for the user only will go in here ( to ~ / Library ) . That means that , although OS X will first look at / Library , if you install a ( for example ) browser plug-in in your ~ / Lib
end question
start question
Security problem if Mac Os X file sharing permissions for " everybody " is set to read-only ?
Any user on your machine would be able to read the files . People on the local network can only read from the places you have set up in Sharing preferences ( under file sharing ) .
There is anti-virus software available for Mac OS X : <URL> <URL> ( Free ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> is free ) Is it worth it ? That 's largely up to you . Personally I 'd say unless required there 's no reason to so long as you practice " safe computing " ( eg . not opening files from just anywhere , being aware of what is installed on your computer , etc. ) . However there are some companies that require any computer ( regardless of OS ) to have up to date anti-virus software installed and operational . There are no viruses available for Mac OS X but there are several pieces of malware and trojan horses that a user must manually download and install . The anti-virus products ( and actually a feature in Mac OS X Snow Leopard ) will help fight against these threats but the primary defence is actually user education as the attack vector is primarily social engineering and not using any security hole .
Yes , Disk Utility can do this . Use then select your file . In the dialog that follows , select . Disk Utility will insist on saving the new ISO as a file , but it is really an ISO . You can rename it to in the Finder , if you like . At <URL> there are screen shots that walk through this process .
On my Mac mini under OS X 10.6.5 , a gives me Java 1.6.0 _ 22 . It 's an out of box + upgrade from 10.6.4 to 10.6.5 and installation of last Xcode 3 .
I used Open Office , it does the job ok . No crashes , quite feature complete . However if you really do n't want to pay anything for an office suite , I 'd go for Google Docs . If you do want to pay , then definitely go for iWork . It 's the only one that 's fully integrated with OS X ( especially if you have Lion ) .
The icon in the menu bar with binoculars inside of a screen is definitely the way to disconnect . Thanks to Chard Marmon for the answer in the comments of my question .
You may want to give Mac OS X 10.4.11 a try . Reference : <URL>
I would use applescript and iCal to schedule enabling and disabling this feature . On OSX Lion you 'll need to have 2 scripts one to enable it and one to disable it . This is the script to enable save it somewhere in your home directory I called it time_announce_on . applescript : Then in iCal setup an appointment to recur every morning at the specified time you want to enable the announcements and have the alert ' run script ' and load the above script . Then all you need to do is have the disable script which I called time_announce_off . applescript : Then setup another appointment in iCal for the time of night that you want to disable this and have it run the time_announce_off script . I tested this in Lion 10.7.3 and it works . For 10.6 I believe you just need to remove the . / from the beginning of the com.apple.speech.synthesis.general.prefs ( but I have n't tested this ) .
I ended-up installing macports and using it to install rpm ( ) It took about an hour to compile all the dependencies , even if I do have 4 cores and a SSD .
Macally makes two USB-based game controllers that are OS X compatible . Both are around USD$ 30 at the time of writing on Amazon . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also pair a Sony Playstation DualShock 3 bluetooth wireless controller with OS X without the need for any additional drivers . Everything you need is built right in to Snow Leopard and Lion . Press the PlayStation logo on the controller and OS X should show the controller in the list of available devices to pair with under the BlueTooth menu bar list . Once paired you 'll need to map the buttons to key actions so it works with your games . For that you can use the <URL> from the App Store .
If this is a hobby and you are not planning on releasing any apps to the app store , and you can tolerate the slow performance and do n't care about running on real devices , then do n't worry about it . However , if you are creating a business the it is essential to run on real hardware . Any low end Mac ( MacBook Air 11 " , is my current favorite ) will blow away any virtual machine . I have a fairly simple app that runs fine on my iPad and iPod Touch , but has all sorts of graphic anomalies in the simulator .
I think this issue is specific to Lion . You ca n't even get to the info screen for an Exchange calendar , to make the colour choice shown in the screen shots here . Googling , I turned up the following Applescript to accomplish the task :
Try something like and see what stops working . does n't make any permanent changes , so the plist is loaded again when you log out and back in . Some processes that might be disabled if you are trying to simplify the UI : : Also disables Mission Control , Launchpad , Dashboard , full screen windows , the application switcher , and the Notification Center sidebar , and makes desktop backgrounds gray . : Also removes the window of the desktop . Does n't affect Quick Look or file dialogs . and : Disables Spotlight indexing and makes the Spotlight menu , mdfind , mdls , and for example searching in Finder and Mail stop working . : Disables notifications and removes the Notification Center icon and sidebar . : Removes services from the Apple menu , context menus , and the keyboard preference pane . : Removes menu extras and the Spotlight menu but not status menus or the Notification Center icon . This concatenates the man pages of processes that have man pages :
In System Preferences , click Universal Access then Keyboard : You 'll find the options for sticky keys in there .
Lion 10.7 was the first consumer Mac OS to be licensed for virtualisation [ OS X Server 10.5 was actually the very first ] No Mac can boot natively on an OS from before it was manufactured , as the drivers to support that hardware were n't yet invented . There is a distant chance you may be able to get <URL> [ list is for current version , not compatible with Snow Leo anyway ] to virtualise Tiger [ even though it is against the EULA ] , but I would be doubtful . <URL> supports Leo &amp; Snow Leo Server , not Tiger . It might be simpler , if not cheaper , to get an old Mac that would run Tiger natively .
Any user on your machine would be able to read the files . People on the local network can only read from the places you have set up in Sharing preferences ( under file sharing ) .
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
The <URL> on HaskellWiki has brief instructions for getting Xmonad running on Snow Leopard . You may need to read through the instructions for older versions if some problems arise .
<URL> provides at least part of the functionality you are looking for . Timing is the best way to keep track of the time you spend with your Mac . Find out where your time goes - without ever having to start a timer again ! Timing automatically tracks which documents you are editing , which applications you use , and the domains of the websites you visit . Afterwards , just drag and drop activities into projects . There are some default categories , but you are free to customize them !
Not particularly at any grave security risk since Apple is supporting and releasing security updates to OS X for n-3 generations of the OS as of August 2014 : Mavericks ( 10.9 ) Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) This is documented on the main support page at <URL> I have n't seen any time when n-2 were not supported on OS X so unless you depend on enhancements to Gatekeeper or the more <URL> such ad Application Layer VPN , Sandboxed Plug-ins , Additional sandboxed Apple Apps , OTA certificate revocation to make up your definition of risky to stay on 10.8 then you should be equivalently secured on 10.8 for the foreseeable near future .
end question
start question
How do I improve gaming performance with Parallels Desktop for Mac ?
Parallels will rarely be as fast as natively booting Windows via Bootcamp , especially when you 're gaming . You 're much better off ditching parallels and going back to bootcamp for gaming . By running the VM , you 're limiting the amount of resources that are available to OS X and your VM environment ; thereby , making each run slower . On some machines where a faster processor and large amounts of RAM are available , may speed it up , but it will never be as smooth as running it natively .
Right-click a blank location ( e.g. not on an icon ) on your desktop and click ' Show View Options ' . Check the ' Show item info ' box : The effect happens immediately .
Ha ! Found it ! then map CMD to CTRL :
<URL> is a nice open source video conversion tool . <URL> is a blog post with some good info on settings to use for iPad rips/conversions . As for getting videos added to iTunes automatically , that is not something Handbrake will do . If you are using OS X however , <URL> AppleScript seems like it would be up to the task . The script watches a folder , when a file is copied in it waits for the file to stop getting larger ( when the copy or encode [ in this case ] is finished ) and then adds the item to your iTunes library . I have n't had a chance to test this for myself though , so I ca n't guarantee it will work as desired .
Apparently , I had to plug the keyboard into the USB port closest to the middle ( Mac Mini Late 2012 ) , then it worked .
Have you tried extracting them from your back up file ? See this <URL> .
We use Apple Configurator to supervise iOS devices and then Meraki MDM to remotely manage them . We push out a webclip and a global HTTP proxy setting to all devices this way . Meraki MDM is free for up to 100 clients , after that you have to pay per client up to and including the first 100 . We were using the Apple OS X server app for awhile and while it does have some great features it is severely lacking in some key areas . You get what you pay for .
It might be different depending on what type of app you are using , but generally speaking , it sure is beneficial to update from 4 GB to 8 GB since 4 GB is not a lot for a Mac and you are using Xcode . The iPhoto app might not change much , because it has to load lots of photos , its latency depends more on the disk instead of the memory . The value of virtual memory might not be very informative , you should look more at swap used right below virtual memory , this is the memory that is actually stored on the disk since the physical memory is not enough . If you see that swap used is often more than zero , your priority should be absolutely to change for 8 GB memory . Otherwise , installing a SSD might be a better choice though that 's more expensive ... edit 1 : Generally speaking , I would recommend upgrading the memory over upgrading to a SSD . A SSD affects only the loading speed of things , that is , the time that it takes for the computer starts up or for an app to load itself . But the size of memory affects the speed of apps when you are opening lots of them . On the Mac , the concept is switching more and more to holding the app inactive in the background instead of closing them completely , that enables the apps to respond quickly since we do n't have to load them again from disk . Despite Apple 's memory compression technology , opening lots of apps still takes a considerable amount of memory , so upgrading the memory prevents the mac to swap some memory to disk , and makes the mac faster when you have lots of apps in the background .
You can move your wallpapers into and have them in single location . This should n't affect the system because I have the wallpapers since Leopard and each OS update only include more wallpapers . Go ahead and include yours in there . Make sure you make a backup of just in case you want to revert them back to default state .
According to <URL> iOS 6 does n't make the iPhone 3GS any slower or more difficult to use than it was before , which should be good news to anyone who keeps theirs around as a secondary or backup phone -- indeed , it 's pleasantly surprising how many of the refinements and improvements make their way down to Apple 's oldest-supported piece of iOS hardware . However , that hardware has been surpassed so thoroughly by other iOS and Android handsets at this point that it 's difficult to recommend it as a primary handset . You do n't have much to lose if you upgrade a 3GS to iOS 6 , but there 's a lot more to gain by investing in a newer device .
You ca n't set it to go back to the last Desktop you were in , but you can set it to go to a specific Desktop when you exit full screen . Just move the application in windowed mode to the desktop you want , right-click the app in the Dock and set to " This Desktop " . Whenever you come out of full screen , it will always go into windowed mode in that particular desktop .
From the iLounge <URL> Thus far iOS 4.2 appears to perform as well as iOS 4.1 did under similar conditions . Performance even on older devices such as the iPhone 3G is the same as iOS 4.1 and thus far we have n't observed any significant changes in battery life .
I 've made the updates , and I did n't notice anything about a performance degradation .
I do n't thinks so . I 've been using VMWare ( same way of working as Parallels ) for years now without a partition and I 've never suffered any issues . When using virtualisation software without a partition , the software creates a dynamic partition which will grow depending on your needs . So basically , it 's the same . Only the dynamic partition is a virtual one . So , in my opinion , there is no need to waste a predefined partition on your Macintosh HD . Just let the software do it 's job and go with the dynamic partition .
This annoyed me too , and it does n't seem the solution is entirely satisfying -- we 'll just have to hope that Twitter for Mac gets updated soon to be better compatible with Lion . If you have " Swipe between pages " set to " Swipe left or right with three fingers " or " Swipe with two or three fingers " , then left/right three-finger swipe gestures will work in Twitter . If you have Mission Control &amp; App Exposé set to " Swipe up/down with three fingers " , then you can hold ⌥ Option to use up/down three-finger swipe gestures with Twitter . ( I 'm not sure why , but if you have these set to 4-finger swipes , it does n't seem 3-finger swipes work at all in Twitter . )
( I 'm assuming you are referring to FileVault 2 found in OS X Lion ) The folks at AnandTech have run some <URL> . Quote : ... [ described are several I/O tests with and without FileVault enabled , including some charts you might want to have a look at ] ... Overall the hit on pure I/O performance is in the 20 - 30 % range . It 's noticeable but not big enough to outweigh the benefits of full disk encryption . [ ... ] [ emphasis above is mine ] So to answer your question : FileVault slows I/O down , and it is a measurable decrease in performance . However , I agree with the earlier quoted statement -- in that the added security is beneficial , and I use FileVault on my Macbook Air . The answer on the second question is " it depends " . The TimeMachine backup process must certainly read a lot of data from the FileVault-encrypted disk , so the reading portion of the backup will be slower . However , whether or not the overall backup performance suffers considerably depends on where the bottleneck is in the system -- e.g. is it a very fast backup drive , or a very slow backup drive ? Is it connected by USB ( slower ) , or Thunderbolt ( faster ) ? If the write speed is terrible , that will govern the overall speed of the backup , not so much the read speed having been reduced a bit . Ergo , it depends .
You could try restarting which , amongst many things , draws the wallpaper on the desktop . But be careful ; as also controls a lot of window management apps may ' un-minimise ' or un-hide and windows . As also controls Mission Control , you wo n't be able to change spaces or go into Mission Control until restarts again ( which is mostly instantly ) . From terminal , try :
The best way is to stop syncing contacts via iTunes and do it all over the air : On your Mac : go to Contacts.app ( or Address Book.app if you 're not on ML ) > Preferences . Under Accounts tab , tick the checkbox " Synchronize with Google " and add your gmail info . On your iPhone : setup a Google Exchange account in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendards . Google has a <URL> for that . After that all your contacts are synced over the air and iTunes will stop syncing those when you attach your iPhone .
Generally speaking there 's nothing you have to do except launch the application that supports your hardware . If you add a new network device , it is immediately listed the next time you open the Network preference pane in System Preferences . If you add a new sound device , is it immediately listed in the Sound preference pane in System Preferences . ( You can also Option + Click the volume icon in your menu bar within seconds of plugging your device in and see it in the list . ) You do n't need to " add new hardware " to use it . If it is compatible , it generally just shows up .
Command ⌘ - Shift ⇧ -3 will save a screenshot of the whole screen to your desktop . Command ⌘ - Control ⌃ - Shift ⇧ -3 copies it to your clipboard . ⌘ - ⇧ -4 lets you drag to take a shot of a portion of the screen , or press Space to select a specific window . Add Control ⌃ to the mix to copy to to the clipboard . You can view and change these in the Keyboard pane of System Preferences , under the Keyboard Shortcuts tab :
end question
start question
Why is iPhone battery percentage fluctuating at lower levels ?
To recalibrate your iPhones battery , you should : Use the iPhone until it shuts off due to low battery . Charge it , without interruptions , to full charge ( 100 % ) . Reset the iPhone by Holding Home and the Power buttons at the same time . Ignore the Slide to Power off , and let the iPhone restart itself . And for the notifications , as far as I know , no such thing can be achieved without jailbreaking . Cydia 's app <URL> , for instance , should do the trick , though .
I 've replaced several batteries in older iPhones including the iPhone 3 . . I have not tried in the iPhone 4 models . In the original and the iPhone 3 / 3GS , it 's really quite simple . The batteries were fine ( from Amazon ) . They come with the tool to separate the back panel , look at iFixit.com for instructions , but just take your time and be patient . . HTH
<URL> ! It 's a very simple app , costs just $ 9 <URL> as of this writing . We covered this app on the Ask Different Podcast , <URL> . <URL> to apply a satisfactory EQ output to all system audio , as he 's begun to use Spotify more often than iTunes , and Spotify does not have an EQ function built in . Thus , we have BOOM ! A variety of uses ( gain/leveling , EQing , etc. ) , with a simple interface , and a low cost .
It used to be that two USB audio interfaces/mics would require you to create an aggregate device in order to use them both at the same time with OS X . As this was still the case in early 2014 ( see the Macworld article , below ) , it probably is still the case today . However , there are differing reports when it comes to identical USB devices . Back in 2011 , an audacity user was testing this specifically <URL> : So , far from being the outlier , Aggregate Device is required any time you plug in two identical USB sound devices . But in 2013 , Blue Microphones themselves <URL> : Because of the nature of USB devices , you wo n't be able to use two of the same USB microphones at once . Since they have similar digital thumb prints your computer wo n't be able to distinguish the devices as separate devices . With that being said , you can use two different USB devices/microphones at once with no problem . As far as being able to use it within a specific program you would have to find out if it allows multiple USB connections [ ... ] So , without further information , your best bet would be to try to create an aggregate device from both mics , and then test with an application which can record multiple channels ( which I assume you already have since you want to do this in the first place ) . <URL> gives details : Plug both USB microphones into your Mac , venture to the Utilities folder ( / Applications/Utilities ) and launch Audio MIDI Setup . In the bottom left corner of the resulting window click the plus ( + ) button and choose Create Aggregate Device from the menu that appears . To the right you 'll see a list of all the audio devices attached to your Mac , including those two mics . Tick the Use checkboxes for the two microphones ( if any of them have multiple entries , look for the one that has a 1 in the In column ) . As you do so , subdevices entries will appear above the list of audio devices . This tells you which mic is using input channel 1 and which is using input channel 2 . If you like , click on the name Aggregate Device in the column to the left and change it to something more intuitive such as " Two Mic Setup . " If you are able to do that , then the resulting device should be both mics , one on each channel , so they can be recorded separately ( or , potentially , recorded as stereo and separated later ) . Of course , if only one of the mics appears in Audio MIDI Setup then it 's possible you wo n't be offered the option of selecting them both when creating an aggregate device . Update : Sadly , <URL> suggests it will not be possible but , if you contact Blue , they should be able to ' reprogram ' one of your mics so you can get this working as an aggregate device : Bue Yetis have identical digitial footprints and therefore no matter how many you plug in , they will be recognized as a single device . I contacted Blue and ultimately I was able to send one of my Yetis to them for reprogramming and now my Mac will recognize it along with another Yeti in order to create an aggregate device . Fair warning , this process took over 2 weeks and I had to pay out of pocket shipping , they paid FedEx ground ( signature required ) back to me .
I do n't believe so . The available API for battery state in iOS gives you only 5 % resolution . It might be possible to write an app that polls battery state and calculates a rate of charge based on the time between 5 % intervals but I do n't know of any apps that do this . If you want to get your app on the app store that 's about the best way of measuring it directly . I know of an app that captures the screen and looks at the battery charge image to determine charge an alternative way but that 's iffy , the size or appearance of the battery indicator might change between versions and then it breaks . Jailbroken devices are a whole other can of worms . I know how to get 1 % resolution on devices with a private API but you ca n't get such an app on the store so distribution is going to be limited . BTW your terminology is a bit confusing . " Current " would be the right term , less commonly " amperage " . I had to read a couple of times through to work it out , I thought you were talking about music volume at first .
There is almost no value in a user trying to " calibrate " a unibody MacBook 's internal battery since it has multiple cells and the system handles this continually . Older MacBook that were non-unibody construction with removable batteries did benefit periodic calibration runs to update the Mac 's estimation of time remaining . Calibration did n't actually give you more power , just a more accurate estimate of the time remaining before that battery needs a recharge . The canonical reference for which models can benefit from calibration is <URL> . A nice primer on battery technology in general is <URL> site . For more technical data , I like reading at the <URL> site . If you seek to extend the time between when you buy a battery ( or computer ) and the time when it needs to be replaced three things will help prolong the useful life of your battery . Discharging it until the Mac sleeps at least once every month or two . Not letting it drain totally for months . Avoid exceeding the re-charge cycles ( new models typically are rated for 5 years and 1000 equivalent charge cycles ) . Avoid storage in very hot temperatures and use ( charging / discharge ) in hot temperatures . In the end , you might pay between $ 100 and $ 150 for a new battery , but something that happens once every 3 to 4 years , Apple 's new battery technology is far better than the old days where heavy users needed a new battery yearly and failures were far more common .
Just google Speakhints and figure out how to turn it the hell off .
Not really . You wo n't suffer any data loss because the iPhone keeps everything on non-volatile flash memory . A complete discharge is n't great for the battery , but as long as it 's not a regular habit your phone will be OK .
This is a new feature of OS X Lion . Lion automatically opens a web browser window when it detects that you need to agree to terms and conditions or log in to use the Internet . It 's worth mentioning that the window is n't actually Google Chrome , but an operating system window that includes a <URL> - based browser .
Since the phone is less than a year old , it will be covered by the default AppleCare warranty . I suggest contacting Apple , and they will probably just replace the phone outright .
Camera sensors are not only limited in their resolution , but also in the rate at which the image data can be read off of them . Just because a sensor can take 5-megapixel still images does n't mean that all of that data can be read off the sensor fast enough to record ( smooth ) video . Even reading just a subset of the pixels ( called pixel binning ) to reduce the amount of data may not be enough to get 1080p images at , say , 30 frames per second . A web search indicates that the iPhone 4 uses an Omnivision OV5650 sensor . According to Omnivision 's own <URL> for that sensor , it 's limited to 720p video , so it 's not just a software thing . I could n't find any specifics about the sensor in the new iPod touch , but it 's almost certainly a different one if it records 1080p .
First of all , all wireless systems use the most power when transmitting , ie actively powering the antenna to upload data . Now , just think of the ranges the different systems have to bridge . WiFi works well for like 30 meters , or 100 meters outdoors . Usually , the nearest cell tower is considerably farther away than those 100 meters , therefore , 3G needs more power than WiFi . Add to this that 3G is capable of opening multiple connections at once , and the fact that 3G autmatically boosts power output on weak signals , 3G needs more power .
Today I get the option back . After 6 month I found <URL> app was the reason to disable " personal Hotspot " . I just uninstalled it . <URL> I wrote an email to Onavo support about it and got this reply Dave NOV 09 , 2011 | 06:44 PM IST Hi Jitendra , Thanks for replying . We 're sorry to hear that , still trying to find a solution for this . Our team is working on several solutions , will update soon . Regards , Onavo Support <URL>
I went through the same process with a 3GS and an iPhone 4 when I moved to China last year . With two phones at stake , I many spent hours searching and tried calling and visiting stores , but no luck . Unless something changed in the last year , it 's not possible . The good news is that you can unlock it yourself .
It 's just a matter of hardware . The M9 coprocessor in the iPhone 6s is efficient enough to keep the microphone listening all the time without murdering the battery , unlike the chips in older devices . From the article your question links to : With iPhone 6s , the device is constantly monitoring audio input in the background , a process made possible by the highly efficient M9 motion coprocessor embedded in Apple 's new A9 system-on-chip .
Deeper discharge/charge cycles shorten an Li-Ion battery 's lifespan faster that shallow ones . ( e.g. . One 100 % cycle is more wearing that four 25 % cycles , etc. ) Therefore , keeping an iPad or iPhone on a charger or always topped off between short uses will tend to lengthen the battery 's total lifespan by reducing the number of deeper cycles per annum , all other thing being equal ( such as total time of use ) . " Calibrating " has almost nothing to do with the battery lifespan . It 's mostly needed to help the battery gauge icon behave more accurately . Once or twice a year is probably good enough for that purpose .
No it really ca n't . What it can do , is show you how much battery the device has left , and hence motivate you to conserve battery with dimming the screen , and perform activities that are less battery intensive . Apps in iOS are sandboxed heavily and consequently ca n't perform system-level functions that might possibly be used to conserve battery . The other problem with this sandboxing is it would likely mean any battery conservation would have to happen while the app is open , and the device unlocked . iOS 5 allows certain processes to continue running in the background , but those include things like using the accelerometer , GPS , and such . This again comes back to iOS apps not allowing access to many system-level processes .
The late Mr. Jobs felt it was essential to be able to mute a cell phone without pulling it out of your pocket , and/or in the dark , with minimal light disturbance , without having to hold it up to see it , without being distracting to the reason you are muting the phone in the first place . IIRC , he actually described something to this effect at the original iPhone unveiling 29 June 2007
I called Apple 's Sale Support , and I asked them what their policy was for batteries in a refurbished Macbook . Their answer is that the battery will be replaced if it has a defect , but if nothing is wrong with it , then the laptop will include the original battery which may or may not have many used cycles .
I 'd say that what 's really being measured there is average CPU usage per application . Then some maths is being done in the background to calculate based on CPU usage how many watts per hour are being consumed per app . Knowing current battery capacity/charge would make that pretty trivial in terms of calculation . On a portable computer , similarly , if an app is really driving your CPU , then your battery is gon na run out faster . I 'd recommend getting hold of something like <URL> which can show you realtime CPU usage in the menu bar as well as a bunch of other stuff . Specifically , the CPU monitor in iStat breaks down CPU usage per application .
end question
start question
Does 2.8 GHZ Mid 2015 MacBook Pro come with dual graphics as default ?
To answer your question " Does the 2.8 GHz model come with dual Intel/AMD graphics card or just Intel embedded graphics only ? " , the 2.8 GHz model came both ways . The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Mid 2015 ) with a 2.8 GHz CPU was available with either an Intel Iris Pro Graphics only , or with the Intel Iris Pro Graphics and AMD Radeon R9 M370X Graphics , so you ca n't go by just the CPU . The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Mid 2015 ) with a 2.8 GHz CPU and only the Intel Iris Pro Graphics has the Model Identifier : MacBookPro11 ,4 The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Mid 2015 ) with a 2.8 GHz CPU and both the Intel Iris Pro Graphics and AMD Radeon R9 M370X Graphics has the Model Identifier : MacBookPro11 ,5 So unless the Tech Specs provided by the seller states the Model Identifier as MacBookPro11 ,5 or states it has both the Intel Iris Pro Graphics and AMD Radeon R9 M370X Graphics then you 'll have to ascertain additional information from the seller to determine what Graphics Adapters it has . See <URL> and <URL> as references , as well as the <URL> . I also used information from <URL> to determine and verify my statements .
Electrically yes , physically not without an adapter . Only the physical layout of the pins and metal end that connects to the Air is different . However , with the <URL> ( $ 10 ) lets any original sized MagSafe adapter slim down to work with the new thinner Mac-side of the MagSafe 2 connection .
Running OneNote on Mavericks here , and right now it does not support tablet input in the way you have described ( I wish it did ) . A possible compromise is to run Windows and OneNote in a virtual machine ( or BootCamp ) , but it really depends on your needs and what you 're willing to put up with .
Lion ( or any other OS X operating system ) does n't come with iPhoto by default . However , iPhoto , iMovie , and Garageband are normally installed on new systems . You 'll have to install iPhoto if it 's not on your system . Each new Mac does get some version of iLife , so you may be able to check from Apple the version of the OS that shipped with your hardware at <URL> and search to see what your options are .
I called Apple to find out , and they confirmed that it is not user-upgradeable : the tech explained that they used the same process they used for the MacBook Air to save space : there are no sticks of RAM , and the RAM has been soldered directly onto the main board . As <URL> , this is now confirmed <URL> before purchase : Please note that the memory is built into the computer , so if you think you may need more memory in the future , it is important to upgrade at the time of purchase . So if you were thinking you might want the 16GB RAM in the future , you 'd want to choose it when you order the MacBook Pro , as you wo n't be able to upgrade later .
No , you ca n't connect an Xbox controller to an Apple TV at this point .
If it just sits at the grey screen and the option boot or C boot does n't work , it is 98 % probable that your hard drive or hard drive cable have failed . Time to head to your local apple store .
No - a simple and properly done RAM replacement does not affect warranty coverage . You can have Apple do the work , or an authorized service provider to do the work or hire someone . Just understand what is covered if something happens before you pay for service . When someone breaks a mac when it 's used in a way not intended , that can result in a denial of warranty service . Also - using aftermarket parts that then damage your mac can also land you in hot water . Luckily with RAM , as long as you do n't physically break the mounting brackets , usually the worst thing that happens is your mac is unreliable or panics until you get proper RAM . The user manual for each Apple product will clearly explain which parts are user replaceable and which are not . You can look up your manual online if you care , but no portable machine other than the MacBook Air has ram that is not user-replaceable .
Here 's all the details : <URL> I totally agree with their recommendation of Drive Genius and Disk Warrior . I use them daily and could not do my job without them .
Suggested problem tracing / and repair ) steps ( after each test the performances ) . Some applications will force use the Nvidia card ( without automatic switching ) . Yes the ZOOM feature adds stress to the GPU . Vacuum clean the inside of your Mac to improve cooling . Google and Install gfxCardStatus , Leave on Dynamic Switching . From there it will Monitor and Alert you to what apps switch you to the Nvidia Graphic Card . Also open the Activity monitor - Energy tab , where you can see when the Nvida card kicks in , and does it switch on/off irregularly . Monitor your Console log for irregular ( fast ) GPU switching . Do some <URL> : GpuTest is a cross-platform ( Windows , Linux and Max OS X ) GPU stress test and OpenGL benchmark . GpuTest comes with several GPU tests including some popular ones from Windows ' world ( FurMark or TessMark ) . worst case remove the Nvidia card , and go without it .
As with any computer , using a higher-wattage power adapter is fine , but using a lower-wattage one might not let it run at full efficiency and may be unhealthy for the battery in the long term . ( And of course it wo n't charge as fast . ) There are a number of answers to this same question , but for MagSafe chargers , <URL> . Kuba Ober 's answer goes into quite a bit of detail about it , though I ca n't personally vouch for its accuracy .
False , Dual DVI means that it has more bandwidth , not that you can attach two monitors . Quote from <URL> article : To support display devices requiring higher video bandwidth , there is provision for a dual DVI link . A dual link doubles the number of TMDS pairs , effectively doubling video bandwidth at a given pixel clock frequency . Dual link should not be confused with dual display ( also called dual head ) , which describes those situations where a computer is hooked up to two monitors at once . Neither , either , or both of the dual displays could be dual link . Depending on the video card ( s ) , the displays could be both analog ( VGA ) , an analog and a digital , or both digital . In order to attach two monitors , you could use a third party device like - you can connect two or three monitors from your Display Port , however , there are some limitations ( like the OS does not know natively that there are two or three monitors connected and treats it like one ) . The price is about $ 350 for the Tripplehead and around $ 220 for the Dualhead one . Here is the <URL> .
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
Yes , as @Buscar 웃SD said , you can use an external Bluetooth adapter . On my Macbook Pro 13 " I had to use Apple 's Bluetooth Explorer to set my USB adapter as the active controller . <URL> describes how to download and use Bluetooth Explorer .
Does the real-world battery life scale linearly with it 's capacity ? No , because it also depends on current draw . If you have a 10 watt hour battery , and you pull 10 watts from it , you will likely get less than 1 hour of time due to losses inside the battery . If you instead pull 1 watt from it , you 'll get closer to 10 hours of usage , because the losses are not as good at lower current draws . As batteries age the losses become worse . The internal damage that occurs over time due to the charge/discharge cycle causes additional internal cell resistance . So a new battery will give you more of its rated capacity ( and use less internally during use ) than an old battery . The old battery will give you less of its rated capacity ( and consume more internally than the new battery ) than a new battery would . Is this number a reliable indicator of present and future battery life ? It 's an estimate , and now that the battery has higher internal losses it will depend much more greatly on how much power you 're drawing . If you 're using the processor and graphics chipset at capacity , then add wireless , bright screen , etc on top of that you probably wo n't be able to use the entire measured capacity . Therefore it 's not reliable , as it depends on your actual usage scenario . If , instead , you 've got it playing itunes with the lid closed , it will use a larger percentage of that capacity before it indicates depletion . What kind of realistic usage am I likely to get from a new battery under Lion ? Unfortunately you 're trying to compare Lion 's consumption with your previous OS consumption . I ca n't answer that question , and even if I had the same model and recently changed the battery I have a different use case , so my experience would n't necessarily apply to use . I can tell you that often one battery will degenerate more than the others in multi cell pack , and if discharged under controlled conditions you can get the full capacity of each individual cell , but under heavy discharge the bad cell is a weak link , and the whole battery pack will shut down prior to depleting the other good cells . This means that there are several good reasons to replace your battery , and the most likely outcome is significantly increased battery life . However there 's no way to guarantee that due to your individual circumstances and usage . The tools you 're using are ok , but without removing and testing each cell individually under a few different discharge conditions you ca n't know fully how the battery will compare to new batteries . So the tools ca n't be counted on to give you more than a rough estimate . If I were in your situation , though , I 'd expect to get approximately the same life out of a new battery under Lion as I got out of the new battery under the previous OS . The difference might be slightly greater , but still minimal .
<URL> to manually create the Recovery HD partition , but it seems complicated for a novice user . If you do n't feel sure about your self into doing this , then I suggest you to re-install Lion .
I bit the bullet and bought another DisplayPort monitor ( Dell U2414H ) , and sure enough , it works out of the box ! I 'm currently running a total of three displays - the iMac built in at 1920x1200 , the 24 " Dell at 1920x1200 , and the 27 " Dell at 2560x1440 .
The memory for the MacBook Pro 8,1 ; 8,2 and 8,3 is the same as for the iMac 12,1 and 12,2 . Just as a point of clarity , the models possible are : Early 2011 MacBook Pro Late 2011 MacBook Pro Mid 2011 iMac Late 2011 iMac
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
As described in <URL> to prevent the Mac from using the internal monitor the following command need to be run then restart .
end question
start question
What Is the Keyboard Shortcut for Sleep Display Without Eject Key ?
( At least on the Retina display MacBook Pro ) use the Power button the same as you previously used the Eject button . So Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power puts the display to sleep and Command ⌘ + Option ⌥ + Power puts the machine to sleep .
You will find <URL> solutions ( Keyboard Maestro , Karabiner , Automator Wrapper ) or <URL> ( LaunchBar/Quicksilver ) to accomplish this . Another <URL> solution is the Launcher Mode : <URL> Download , install and start Karabiner . In the menubar open Karabiner - > Preferences Search for Launcher and enable the preset . To open Activity Monitor hold OA and release A
I 'm using a MacBook Air 2012 with Mountain Lion , and the new keyboard shortcut is : Control + Shift + Power
Here is the code : Just replace the with the index of your script in the menu . ( FYI : 1 is , 8 is
Apple provides a list of available keyboards here : <URL> Which ones are available depends on where you are located .
Under Keyboard &amp; Mouse on System Preferences there is a Keyboard Shortcuts tab .
I always use this combo as well , however this does not immediately sleep my machine in ML . I believe this is a separate issue at play here . According to <URL> , unlike in previous OS X versions , in 10.8 your system is eligible for sleep immediately upon " user inactivity " ( the inactivity delay being set in your energy saver settings ) unless the currently running apps make " power assertions " . In this case , that key combo is signalling to the OS that " user inactivity " should be triggered right away . In such a case , if your particular app that 's downloading stuff does not make power assertions , your system will sleep . I have come across the same issue generally ( not necessarily related to triggering the screen sleep combo ) . See : <URL>
You did n't mention what keyboard , but on the Apple keyboard : F7 - restart current song F8 - pause/play F9 - skip forward Note that you need to have the box unchecked in OSX that says use function keys as normal . In the event you use your function keys for something , I 've also successfully created trigger hotkey combos in Quicksilver . You can also probably just remap them in keyboard preferences .
I 've written an AppleScript script which toggles the Zoom style : You can use Keyboard Maestro or any other script launching app to run this script on a keyboard shortcut .
This feature is still present ( I 'm using 10.7.3 and it works for me ) . Go to System Preferences > Keyboard and check the keyboard shortcuts . In the list of ' Keyboard &amp; Text Input ' shortcuts you should see ' Move focus to next window ' ⌘ + ` . Make sure it is checked , and it should work .
Window Menu > Playlist ... Opt ⌥ Cmd ⌘ P
The most comprehensive package for remapping the keyboard is <URL> . It 's a bit complex , but will allow you to do almost anything .
<URL> For current Mac keyboard layouts . Control + Shift + Eject works for older keyboard layouts that still include the Eject key . <URL> explains some alternate solutions as well . Also , if you have " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " set to immediately in System Preferences - > Security &amp; Privacy , it will ask you for your password after doing this .
Office for Windows : F2 Office for Mac : Ctrl + U
While not available until this summer , the next version of the Mac OS ( Mountain Lion ) will allow you use <URL> . From the site : Your Mac is on TV . This new feature in Mountain Lion is made for an audience . With AirPlay Mirroring , you can stream what 's on your Mac to your HDTV via Apple TV . Show web pages and videos to friends on the couch . Share lessons with a classroom . Present to a conference room . It 's a big deal for your Mac . And for everyone around it .
I ended up getting <URL> power pack and setup a hotkey there . It 's much much faster than the automator service .
The power button only powers ON/OFF the keyboard , it does n't power off the computer . To power off your computer using the keyboard , you might want to use any of the following : Reference : ⌘ ( Command key ) - On some Apple keyboards , this key also has an Apple logo ( ) ⌃ ( Control key ) ⌥ ( Option key ) - " Alt " may also appear on this key ⏏ ( Eject ) ⇧ ( Shift ) ⌃ Control + ⏏ Eject : Show shutdown dialog ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Put the computer to sleep ⌃ Control + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer . ⌃ Control + ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer . ⇧ Shift + ⌃ Control + ⏏ Eject : Sleep the display , but not the computer . ( thanks to <URL> )
Does control + shift + eject ( sleep displays ) solve your problem ? ( if you set authentication for login ) Or you can use Option + Command + eject Put the computer to sleep .
I did not test this myself , as I do not have a Bluetooth keyboard , but I 've seen a few article stating that to send an email you could type CMD - Shift - D.
In Safari 6 or newer , ShiftCmd \ or a two finger pinch invokes the " Tab View " which includes iCloud tabs . <URL>
end question
start question
Is it possible to run Nautilus on OS X ?
<URL> , so you could <URL> and then install Nautilus using that : You should then be able to run it using the terminal command . You may see the following during installation : Running the commands manually should be enough to run directly after installation ( without rebooting ) .
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
LittleSnapper keeps it 's images in special library file , so the only way to copy images is to do the long way that you described . I 'd recommend you get on the LittleSnapper discussion board over at RealMac to add your voice to the group of users who 'd also like to get at their images in a more flexible way . <URL>
I do n't know about a specific app to send instant messages ( I doubt one exists ) BUT I like to rename my own shared library something akin to " if you do n't stop stealing my internet I 'll steal your credit card info " . Not that I actually know how to do that , but it usually scares them off my wireless .
You can switch which monitor is the " Primary " monitor by opening the Displays in Preferences and dragging and dropping the menu bar to your secondary monitor . That should make fullscreen apps use your other monitor .
Yes . You can make it so you do n't see the dock by adding a very long delay to the animation so that in practice , you never leave the mouse on the " expose the dock " target long enough to see it . This is technically a " workaround " since the dock is still there , just slower to appear than we care about on our timescale . Two steps are needed to set this up . One , activate auto-hide in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Dock & #x 2192 ; Autohide or type & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + D Two , open the Terminal an type : You 're set up now . In this example , it takes 100 seconds for the dock to appear . Make the timer even longer if you like , this long delay eventually helps you to forget that the dock is even there . Reset to default behavior by typing :
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
You probably can use an SD card as a backing store . However : you should not expect a good result . See the up-voted comments .
First , you 'll need to install the Terminal Plugin . Run any command from Quicksilver ? Just enter text mode ( by pressing . ) , enter your command and choose either the " Run Text Command in Terminal " action ( opens a new terminal window and runs the command ) or the " Run Command in Shell " action ( runs the command in the background and returns the results to Quicksilver ) Run a script ? Just browse to the script and choose the " Run " or " Run in Terminal [ ... ] " actions .
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
It is not possible to install Siri . The iPhone 4S is the only iPhone that includes this system-wide functionality . You may have read about the Siri app , which is what the Siri team originally developed before their company was acquired by Apple . This app was available for older iPhohe models . However , when the iPhone 4S was released , the Siri app was discontinued . Hope this helps .
When you are using Windows and you open an application like MS Word or Adobe Photoshop , it will open up the application window with some sort of empty background . When you do this on a Mac however , there is no background , there is simply the menu options in the very top bar . So say you had a file open in Photoshop in Windows and you closed that file , you would see the same blank application window that you saw when you started up Photoshop . On a Mac , you will see the menu in the top bar , but again , since there is no background you simply see the desktop . So really , there is no difference in the way that Windows and Mac OS X handle the applications , other than one had a visible window and the other does n't . The benefit of doing it the OS X way : If you DO plan on keeping the application open , it keeps you from having to minimize the app like you would in windows . All you have to do it click on something else in the background and it will make the applciation lose focus . To close it , simply right click on the application icon in the dock and choose ' Quit ' .
Specifically the browse button is disabled because there is n't a file browser ( like Windows Explorer/Finder ) on the iPhone . Most people do n't notice that , because the iOS is designed around avoiding the need for a user interface to the iPhone 's file system . For simplicity 's sake file management is turned into a programing problem instead of a user problem . For security 's sake applications ca n't directly access the documents of other applications . As Jawa mention , a lot of sites have iPhone applications to allow uploads .
If you 've successfully installed Fedora on a free partition , the rest is easy . Just download an ISO copy of <URL> and burn it with Disk Utility to a blank DVD . Then , while booting , hold down C after the chime to boot to rEFIt . It will give you the option to boot to Linux ( this is indicated by a Tux icon ) . Additionally , rEFIt is able to install itself to your system without a DVD boot every time , but I could n't recommend it as I had some issues with this personally .
You 're probably looking for Skype 2.8.0.866 ( PPC ) , which you can find searching the <URL> website . It was released on 29 November , 2010 . Supported Systems : Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard ( PowerPC )
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
Check to make sure you have enough RAM , Snow Leopard requires 1GB of RAM . Snow Leopard does not require a 64-bit processor .
I 've done this several times and never had a problem . Just make certain your external drive uses the correct partition scheme ( GUID for Intel Macs ) and format . I once forgot to change the partition scheme and , as a result , could n't run firmware updates until I reformatted the drive .
As described in Apples <URL> : To delete the Keychain completely , you have to deselect in the iCloud Account details under system preferences . After that , turn off the Keychain usage on every device that is using it . This will delete the complete keychain . Turning on the will result in a clean keychain . If you want to edit items stored in the iCloud keychain you can do so via the Mac OS X keychain app or from your iDevice in the Safari preferences . Mac OS X example : On the left , select iCloud and delete / edit items on the right .
end question
start question
Are there fonts that include note characters ?
Try installing the <URL> from this <URL> . This will install the musical notes you need ( free ) . You can then test it out on this <URL> . Hope this helps .
I recommend <URL> . Simple interface with support for syntax highlighting , sync with Dropbox and etc. . Available in the Mac App Store
There are no build-in power modes in Mac OS X. Still , the standard configuration in Mac OS X in combination with the high capacity batteries used in the MacBooks offers quite good battery life . If you want to optimize your energy usage , you need to manually tweak settings . Here 's , what OS X offers to save power : System Settings - > Energy Saver dim display when using battery display/computer sleep System Settings - > Display Automatically adjust brightness System Settings - > Security &amp; Privacy disable remote control infrared receiver Menubar Wifi Icon - > disable Wifi Bluetooth icon - > disable Bluetooth
Found the solution : just go into the Photos sidebar item and export from there . All the projects will be put in their appropriate folders .
You can do it with this script : This will return something like this : And the final result :
As far as I know , the iPhone 4 is the only device capable of running iOS 7 that ca n't be updated to iOS 8 . Ref : Wikipedia - <URL> - &amp; others
I did n't find any way to modify the style of the selection , but you could use UI scripting to select a font from the format bar . You could assign shortcuts to the scripts with <URL> or by creating Automator services .
I found this article , <URL> , and possible solutions : It has always been a challenge for IT administrators to find solutions and tools compatible with Mac OS X , but now securing the network and data Mac users access is also becoming a priority . <URL> ' Endpoint Protector 4 with Enforced Encryption on removable storage devices for Mac OS X solves these problems . It offers an easy , yet secure way for Mac users to encrypt data copied onto USB storage devices . With intuitive ' drag &amp; drop ' and copy/paste features , all information copied on the device is instantly protected by password-based military strength AES 256-bit encryption . The Enforced Encryption functionality also incorporates an additional security feature that deletes information if an attempt is made to tamper with the data , or when the device gets lost or stolen . Therefore , stopping users from taking classified information from Macs minis , iMacs , Mac Pros , MacBooks onto portable devices has become an imperative for the companies ' data security . Locking down and monitoring proactively the use of USB , CD/DVD , card readers , etc. is possible with Device Control by Endpoint Protector for Mac OS X and can be managed centrally from the intuitive web-based interface .
Try installing the <URL> from this <URL> . This will install the musical notes you need ( free ) . You can then test it out on this <URL> . Hope this helps .
If you 're just looking for a quick signal strength number , option-click on the AirPort icon in the menu bar . Under the connected network you will see several pieces of information : RSSI is your signal strengh in dB . Higher ( closer to 0 ) is better . If you 're looking for noise or the signal strength for multiple access points , I suggest checking out <URL> : <URL>
There are infinite combinations since you can add your own custom tags , therefore you can have as many tags as you wish and therefore as many tag combinations as you wish . Organising your files with tags is down to personal preference , but personally I use custom tags for projects and custom-named tags with colour for important/completed/etc . My current main tag list is as follows : I usually combine these with the project - or context-specific tag if it is a single file or package , or use the project/context tag on the folder and these general tags on the files themselves .
If you 're looking to control Keynote presentations and your Mac does n't have a built-in IR port , you could buy an external receiver , but I suggest you use either : The <URL> for iPhone . This works over wi-fi and requires only a $ 0.99 purchase and no additional hardware to buy or set up . or A specialized slide advancer , like this <URL> one . This is designed to be comfortable to hold ( the Apple Remote was n't ) and does n't require line-of-sight to the receiver ( which is a small USB dongle ) to work . Some of the better ones have a slide counter and laser pointers built in .
First , you may need to enable these groups by clicking the button in the upper left and choosing " Customize List ... " : Then find the desired list and check the checkbox : If you have done this and you see boxes instead of characters , it just means you do n't have a font that supports those characters . If you download and install an appropriate font you should start seeing the characters .
On OS X , the kernel task accumulates IO wait time and the process accumulates CPU time managing the IO call setup and results but not the actual IO wait . Put another way , in or Activity Monitor , IO waiting is time when the CPU is idle . The system/kernel would take any core storage / filevault processing time needed to accomplish the IO but for the general case with a normal drive there is n't CPU overhead on IO past the normal virtual memory overhead .
Grab it in the list &amp; drag it out to the desktop - like you would with an app in the dock , etc. . You should see the little puff of smoke &amp; it 's gone .
I did searches for Tolstoy , Pushkin , and Dostoyevski and found at least one Russian language book under each one . Are these not there for you ?
In short , yes . Most application downloads are packaged either as a . dmg ( Disk iMaGe ) file , or as a package , ending in either . pkg or . mpkg . A . dmg is a regular file on Mac , Win , Linux , etc. , so all you have to do is follow your usual transfer method and you can easily move it from PC to Mac . On the other hand , . ( m ) pkg " files " are actually directories ( just like the . app files in the Applications directory ) so you need to take care to copy the entire directory from one device to the next . You can then install it like usual . However , many . ( m ) pkg packages are actually downloaded as . dmg files , so you should n't have any issues at all . Good luck !
Here are some references . I do n't have any personal experience with them . <URL> , April 22 , 2010 <URL> . A note there indicates that it is not yet compiled for Lion . <URL>
Try to change it by going to System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups - > your account , and click on Change Password ...
<URL> by Agile Bits may suit your needs and has just been updated to version 4 . Sync your notes ( and passwords ) on the LAN to your other devices or via DropBox . ( Only encrypted data is sent to Dropbox as per your requirement . )
end question
start question
Can the keys on the MacBook Pro be removed for cleaning ?
If they keys are square without beveled edges then no . Removing it would require major surgery to remove . I recommend a can of air duster , some q-tips , and alcohol to clean the keyboard .
I do n't know about the 7200 , but my mid-2010 MBP has the following ( from system profiler ) : I too had trouble with noise and vibration with a Seagate Momentus XT ( the hybrid drive ) . After reinstalling the stock drive it 's quiet and vibration free again .
I have an external hard disk connected to an AirPort Extreme . Time Machine wirelessly backs up my MacBook Pro to it . In this regard , it works the same as TimeCapsule but as the hard disk is external ( and you get to choose it ) , it does n't suffer from the same reliability problems . I 've found the AirPort Extreme to be a very good Wireless Access Point , too ( and not just for Apple devices ) .
Have you looked at <URL> ( nVidia only ) or <URL> to do just this ? Both technologies are made to leverage the GPU .
fn + shift + Up/Down IIRC in previous versions of Mac OS X ( Lion or perhaps earlier ) , fn had to come first . But I just tested fn vs. shift first and neither had a different effect . This may be Terminal.app specific , and may not work in iTerm 2 . YMMV
Nope . The glowing Apple on your MacBook Pro is actually illuminated by the backlight of your screen as well . So you ca n't turn it off as long as you have your screen lighted on . Your best bet is probably to put a sticker on it .
OS X does not offer this functionality . smcFanControl and the iStat widgets are the typical go-to choices for this issue . I personally use smcFanControl . It gives me both the temperature and the ability to monitor fan operation .
According to this document <URL> The MacBook Pro ( 15-inch and 17-inch , Early 2011 ) and later have Thunderbolt2 and can handle two thunderbolt displays ( 2560x1440 ) . According to this document <URL> The MacBook Pro ( Retina , 15-inch , Late 2013 and later ) can handle one MST 4K display at 60Hz . You can run one 4K monitor off of the Thunderbolt display at 60z and a second off HDMI at 30Hz . the two thunderbolt ports are connected . Once you try to connect a second 4K monitor to the other port , you will go over the bandwidth and the second monitor will go dark .
Yes , but it only works on Unibody Macs . You can also use the volume and play/pause controls .
You have two options ; either hold down fn as L2G suggested , or switch to the F1 etc. keys to work like that directly . This can be setup in keyboard preferences here : If you do that , F1 will work as the actual F1 key . If you want to use it for controlling the brightness , you 'd hit fn with it .
The Basics : <URL> Time Machine is Apple 's backup solution , included in OS X . An external drive is required . It backs up changed files every hour , and stores as many " snapshots " as it can hold . After the initial full backup , it only stores changes to files , which makes things more efficient , and allows for more granular snapshots . In addition to being able to do a full system restore , you can selectively restore older versions of specific files , which is handy in case you delete or make changes you did n't mean to . Using Time Machine on OS X 10.7 and later also enables " <URL> " , which keeps snapshots of changed files on your main drive when you do n't have your backup drive attached , provided there 's sufficient space . Obviously this does n't help if you have a drive failure , but in the case of accidental deletions , etc. it can be helpful . For more information , Apple 's <URL> article is a good starting point . Online Backup If you 're on the go a lot , you may want to consider an online backup service . <URL> is a popular one , but there 's also <URL> , <URL> and several others . The advantages are not needing an external drive , and having an off-site backup to recover from in the event of something nasty happening to your house . The downside is the monthly cost ( I believe BackBlaze is a flat fee , others have differing schemes based on how much data you back up ) , as well as the time required to back up over the internet . These services only back up data that has changed , so after the initial full backup , things will get faster , but depending on your connection , it could be a bit problematic ( particularly if you 're travelling -- most hotel Wi-Fi I 've used is n't exactly speedy ) . <URL> SuperDuper is a longstanding Mac favourite . It will make a complete clone of your drive to an external drive , which is then bootable and usable exactly like your internal drive . It also has a " smart update " feature , where after the initial clone , it only updates the backup with changed data , to minimize how long backups take . SuperDuper is the best way to get up and running again after a hard drive crash -- you can boot off your backup drive right away and you 'll your full system . <URL> I 'm listing this separately from the other online backup systems because it 's not really a full backup , but it 's definitely worth using . It 's simply a folder that syncs to the Dropbox servers and wherever else you install your Dropbox client . Some limited storage of old versions of files is also included . 2GB is provided free , you can pay if you need more . The best use of Dropbox would be for your current working files . It wo n't store everything , but if you use it for the files you most often need , or those that you 're using lately , you 'll have up to date backups from whenever you have an internet connection . Wrap Up You 'll have to do think about what exact setup suits your needs best . Ideally , a robust backup system would include at least two or three of these options in combination , so that you have multiple fallbacks . For example , you could do a daily or weekly SuperDuper backup , and then use Dropbox or Time Machine to restore the files you 've been working on since your most recent backup . Adding in an online backup service for off-site redundancy will give you some added protection in the event your local backups are lost or destroyed .
No , as the first iMac which allows this is the 27-inch Late 2009 iMac , as explained <URL> . There are , though , some Applications which may achieve something similar , requiring both computers to be connected to the same LAN/WiFi/VPN , and sending all the information , the one to be displayed on the second computer working as a display , through it . Such as <URL> . You can find some more <URL> .
Supported resolutions Retina , Ratio 16:10 2880 by 1800 pixels scaled , Ratio 16:10 1920 x 1200 pixels 1680 x 1050 pixels 1280 x 800 pixels 1024 x 640 pixels According to the <URL> by Apple . How does the scaling work ? According to an <URL> : Selecting any of these options gives you the effective desktop resolution of the setting , but Apple actually renders the screen at a higher resolution and scales it to fit the 2880 x 1800 panel . As a result of this scaled rendering , there can be a performance and quality impact . There is a new option to configure the resolution in the system settings . While you actually change the resolution , Apple only refers to the visual impact of the settings . So basically changing the resolution offers : Large text , but much crisper . More space for visual content ( and smaller text ) , but not as sharp . Something in-between ( default retina ) . ( original picture from AnandTech ) Note : Due to the imprecise definition of " retina display " , this answer may seem confusing , because at the top Apple speaks of 2880x1800 as retina , but the picture suggest something different .
You will need the same type of headset that you use with an iPhone . It will have one 3.5 mm plug that carries both the stereo audio and mic input ( aka a TRRS plug ) . Some examples are apple 's own <URL> , Sennheiser 's PX 200-II i 's , and any other iPhone headset .
According to Apple the answer is no , but OWC has <URL> and found that there are no issues putting 16GB ( 2x8GB ) in the latest generation MacBook Pro . The upgrade does n't come cheap , though - at this time 2x8GB modules will set you back $ 1599 . <URL>
Nope . They 're different sizes . Compare <URL> to their <URL> : 15 " : 13 " : Both batteries are roughly proportional to their cases , and the 15 " has a substantially bigger case than the 13 " . Additionally , they 're shaped differently - see the little notch in the top left of the 15 " battery , which is n't there on the 13 " battery . It physically wo n't fit .
Your Thunderbolt monitor has a MagSafe Connector - your MBP has a MagSafe 2 Connector . Apple now supplies a <URL> with the display ( check the packaging - the adapter is small ) . If you are missing the converter , check with Apple - they should give you a replacement .
I will not recommend you do this since it will degrade your wireless performance . The WiFi and bluetooth antennas are located just off the DVD slot to allow more signal to come out . Remember the MBP is a metal cage and wireless signals need a way to come out .
I just filed down my new Apple MagSafe power cord on each end and it totally works with my 2012 15 " MacBook Pro . . Just found out the edges and I did a few passes over the top were the pins are and pow ! It totally works
It depends on how much you care about your warranty . If you want to keep your warranty valid , Apple says you can upgrade your hard drive and your RAM -- and that 's all . To learn how to do it , here are Apple 's user manuals and page references for the current ( mid-2010 ) MacBook Pros : <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What must I check after I got my new refurbished MacBook Pro 13 " ?
A simple answer , start the MacBook and hold down the D key when you hear the startup chime . This will start the built-in diagnostics and any problems that are found will be listed here . Apple link <URL> .
According to Apple 's <URL> for the 2015 13 " MBP , it is possible : " Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 3840 by 2160 pixels on up to two external displays ... "
Yes , it is true . MacBook ( Mid 2010 ) , MacBook Air ( Late 2010 ) , MacBook Pro ( Mid 2010 ) , Mac mini ( Mid 2010 ) , iMac ( Late 2009 ) , Mac Pro ( Mid 2010 ) and later models supply multichannel audio ( up to 8 channels ) and video signals over Mini DisplayPort . There should n't be any dependencies for it to work other than an HDMI cable to use from your HDTV to your adapter . If you plan on purchasing a third party adapter make sure you confirm that it does both audio and video . <URL> <URL>
Apple only produces <URL> to connect the original Magsafe to Macs with Magsafe 2 . It does n't provide one to go the other way around . At the moment I 'm unaware of any third party product that does this ( and given the lack of third party Magsafe accessories in general , I would n't expect one any time soon ) .
I think you are going about this the wrong way . You are looking defensively when you should be on offense . Consider getting something like a privacy shield to place around the urinator : Another alternative might be to simply bring physical pain into the mix . Wounding the urinator that sprays wildly towards you and the Macbook might make the urinator realize that control is important . Again , think offense ... not defense .
There 's no direct way to do it , unless you happen to own two Apple Thunderbolt displays you can daisy chain . What most people do is purchase a USB video adapter like a DisplayLink device . Performance and OS X support can be spotty but you might find something that 'll work well , especially if you can get something with USB 3.0 support . There are <URL> <URL> <URL> in the sidebar -- > that have more details on this .
The solution for me was to use the adapter with a three pin extension cord . Then your notebook is grounded , and no more charges stay on the cover that shock you . :-) . About steps 1-3 In steps 1 and 2 , you reset the System Management Controller ( <URL> ) on a Mac that has a battery , which you should not remove on your own . The SMC manages hardware conditions related to temperatures and power consumption . You may also be interested in the question : <URL> . I 'm not aware of the shortcut you performed in step 3 .
It actually does n't matter . If you install Lion you can use the Time Machine backup as the source for restoring all data through Migration Assistant . It works exactly the same as if you put your old machine into target disk mode and use it as a drive for Migration Assistant . ( I was really surprised to find this out a couple of days ago when shuffling hard drives - 3 bad SSDs in a row , long story - and I was not allowed to select Time Machine to restore from because it was too large for the 240GB SSD , after using a 750GB spinning disk for a while - even though I had carefully excluded enough data to be sure it would fit . Then when Migration Assistant came up it allowed me to use the Time Machine drive to restore all the data I wanted anyway - all 90GB of it . All 's well now , and this unexpected feature of Time Machine saved me some time . )
You basically have three options for Virtualization on Mac OS X : The already mentioned ( and free ) <URL> The first solution for Mac ( and arguably one of the best ones these days ) <URL> The very famous <URL> , from VMWare Inc. . Any of these will allow you to run a variety of OSs under OS X without resorting to bootcamp or repartitioning . The last two are not free , but - depending upon your needs - vastly superior in terms of features to VirtualBox . I have the three . I have used the three extensively . In its current versions , Parallels is ahead of VMware . But this changes very often with new versions . Virtual Box is ok but slower ( to virtualize ) and has way less features . VMware is very stable . It never crashed in more than three years of daily usage . Parallels does perform certain tasks faster than VMware , but will occasionally crash the VM . ( It happened about 5 times in a two year period ) . In the end , either will work if you do n't need anything fancy .
If you are using Bootcamp , Apple has provided <URL> : print screen = fn + ⇧ shift + F11
You can list specifically which audio devices your system is using in Terminal : Another way you can determine if you have the combination audio port is when you 're viewing you will have an output option that shows up on the input tab .
It 's quite simple from my perspective - The 15 inch CPU is superior in all respects over the 13 inch CPU : 2.0 GHz quad-core Intel Core i7 processor ( Turbo Boost up to 3.2 GHz ) with 6MB shared L3 cache 2.6 GHz dual-core Intel Core i5 processor ( Turbo Boost up to 3.1 GHz ) with 3MB shared L3 cache Turbo Boost engages for operations where only one core is active . Starting at a lower GHz saves energy and battery and as long as the CPU can boost to a faster top level than a competing CPU - you get the best of both worlds - fuel efficiency at idle and top speed when needed . So , for a simple task where the computer is doing one thing only - you would expect the 13 inch to ramp one core up to 3.1 GHz whereas the 15 inch would ramp up to 3.2 GHz . Bigger is better for that task . Plus a larger L3 cache will make some switching between tasks more efficient on the 15 inch model . Now , if you have video processing or a mixed workload where tons of compute is waiting for the CPU . You have two cores running at 2.66 or 5.32 GHz of theoretical throughput compared to 4 cores at 2.0 or 8.00 GHz of throughput . Again , no task scales perfectly , but even with 10 % overhead , the quad core processor wins . It would have to be a bizarre benchmark to show the dual core i5 out perform the quad core i7 for any task that engages multiple cores . If you want another opinion , I would recommend this nice article by Marco Arment on trying to calculate which Mac Pro CPU choice works for various budgets and tasks : <URL> In it , he does n't explain why he feels the 15 inch MacBook Pro is so far superior to the 13 inch MacBook Pro and simply states it as fact . I generally agree with that due experience and seeing <URL> . My feeling is the current 15 inch logic board and supporting components are faster and of better specifications than what is put into the 13 inch model . If you can swing the cost and live with ( or prefer ) the larger physical size , get the 15 inch model . It 's an excellent workstation in a portable form factor . For many tasks it <URL> and even the new Mac Pro . Personal note : The base $ 1299 13 inch model is no slouch - I work from one almost exclusively the last year and I 'm never really waiting for it in practice . If you need to pinch pennies on the CPU , I 'd con side any of the retina 13 inch models if it means you can afford AppleCare , an external monitor plus backup drive ( s ) and whatever software you need to be productive . Rather than invest in tons of extra CPU cycles that you may not really use or need to work day in and day out .
Simple answer : Not really . You can , however , enable the " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " option in the Keyboard preference pane : ... and then use <URL> to map F4 to Expose . By doing this , all functions of your current function keys wo n't work and you 'll have to remap all of them using BTT as you like .
OS X does not offer this functionality . smcFanControl and the iStat widgets are the typical go-to choices for this issue . I personally use smcFanControl . It gives me both the temperature and the ability to monitor fan operation .
Zeroing out a brand new disk is , for the average user , a waste of your time . Writing all those zeros to every single block on the disk is time consuming ( and yes , your zero-out time seems to be in the ball park even for USB 3 ) and has no real benefit . The disk , if new , and freshly HFS + formatted is ready to go without any additional work . Zeroing out can help the security-paranoid erase latent data from the platters ( though , zeroing is n't sufficient to meet US Government regulations for sanitizing media see <URL> for more details ) . And it can help find and mark bad sectors before you start relying on the media for day to day use . I 'll contend that , except for ultra rare cases where new media is heavily damaged on arrival , that modern methods for finding and marking bad sectors in situ are good enough to make pre-finding them before serious use unnecessary in this day and age .
I 've had bad RAM that still allowed the machine to boot - a stick of memory in my Mac Pro apparently failed gracefully overnight . The first step would be to check system profiler to see if the memory is being recognized . If indeed it is , there 's a version of MemTest for OS X : <URL>
I would n't purchase this machine unless it 's still covered by AppleCare . Inspect it closely for nicks and dents , indicating a drop . I would check the Console logs for any indication of ongoing OS level problems . Unfortunately testing hardware can take a while , but is worthwhile before buying . Run AHT ( see <URL> ) and do the quick test . To do it you 'll probably need the original disks that came with the machine . The only other thing I can think of would be to verify that modules such as bluetooth , WiFi , Ethernet etc , are showing up properly ( and information is being populated in ) system profiler . To get there , hold option while going to the apple menu - it 's the first option . Listen for loud fans , can indicate overheating or bad sensors . Aside from that ... it 's always risky . Check Apple 's stock of refurb units . They come to you refurbished by Apple , with a 1-year warranty , and often do n't cost that much more than a CL unit , but with much less risk .
<URL> say to keep it for troubleshooting and/or if you need to send it in for warranty service : <URL> " 2x1GB is worth so little so you 're better off keeping it for troubleshooting purposes . " <URL> " I would hold on to the memory ; if you ever need to take it in for service , it 's better to have the original memory in it . " " Keep them for warranty " <URL> " Apple guidelines are that if you do have 3rd party hardware installed , they wo n't service it . "
Fan speeds are related to the temperature of your laptop . If you 're just interested in monitoring the temps , <URL> ( $ 16 ) has an excellent temperature monitor that sits in your menu bar and can track any of the dozen temperature sensors built into your MBP . There are various free apps which purport to allow you to control your Apple laptop fan speeds . <URL> <URL> <URL> -- seems to be out of date , wo n't run on Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) EDIT : After looking at those in depth , it appears that they let you increase fan speeds , but otherwise do n't interfere with Apple 's built-in fan controls . You might try running the fans at high speeds just before recording to cool your machine , then shut them off when you start recording . Then , if the fans come on during recording , you 've done the best you could , and you 'll just have to record in shorter segments if fan noise is an issue . I 've found that the best solution to keeping my computer cool and the fans off , even when really tasking the processor , is to put it on a little stand to allow plenty of airflow underneath . Personally , I swear by <URL> -- I 've been using them with my Apple " pro " laptops since 2004 -- but there are many alternatives . Finally , I 'm not sure what you 're recording , but you could try using a directional USB microphone to eliminate extraneous noise from your recording environment . There are many excellent options on Amazon for under $ 100 ( be sure it is Mac-compatible before purchasing ) .
The explanation on the Preferences panel is wrong and confusing . The Retina display does n't actually run at 1280x800 . Instead it just " looks like " it does . A 13.3 inch screen running at 96dpi ( pixels ( dots ) per inch ) has a resolution of about 1280x800 and the 8pt font and other on screen elements are big enough for the eye to see . When you run a 13.3 at retina resolutions 2560x1800 the fonts are much much smaller and hard to look at , so OS X makes them as big as they were at 1280x800 but more detailed . You get to see the same thing as one would at 1280x800 but at much greater detail 226dpi instead of 96dpi . Resolution is just a big " carpet " of dots , you have a fixed amount of them and you can make the dots bigger to cover more area . For example a 3840x2160 4K TV that is 48 inches wide diagonally has about 90 pixels per inch comparable to a normal desktop monitor . A 15 inch Retina Macbook Pro has 2800x1800 ( a little less than the 4k tv ) but they are packed smaller and closer together on a much smaller surface area , 15 inch wide instead of 48 .
end question
start question
How can I stop my screen from dimming while it 's plugged in ?
Under displays in system preferences there is a checkbox ( along with a brightness slider ) to enable/disable automatic brightness .
In System Prefereces > Network set Ethernet above Wifi . That should do the trick .
We need a torrent client that can download the movie file parts in order , not randomly . We need a player that supports playing incomplete files . We need a connection that is faster than the movie 's bitrate ( and a torrent with enough peers obviously ) . The torrent client Previously I used <URL> . It is developed by a technology institute in Zurich . It did n't have a polished GUI and took a little bit too much CPU while downloading . There 's new client I found thanks to @diimdeep . It is called <URL> and it is awesome . <URL> You can see that while downloading it downloads as a normal torrent client -- the parts are downloaded randomly : <URL> But there is an option : <URL> After that we can see that the rest of the file is being downloaded sequentially ( blue -- downloaded , green -- requested ) : <URL> The connection speed How can we tell if the speed is good enough ? By the estimated time of arrival ( ETA ) : <URL> If the movie is 1.5 hours and the ETA is 17 minutes , then the speed is sufficient . The player The player is and always has been <URL> ( I do n't know why the domain is Hungarian ) low cpu usage plays almost anything ( although very rarely it crashes and burns ) lots of options ( boosting volume , control of cache on streams , indexing ... ) arrow keys navigation ( I ca n't live without that ) playing incomplete files ( and reindexing them , which allows navigation ) I use <URL> - a nice OSX gui . Download and associate movie files with mplayer ( avi , mkg ) : <URL> The final step is to to play the file after the downloading started : <URL> That 's it . <URL> Happy watching .
The easiest ( and free ) way would be to upgrade your system to OSX 10.9 ( Mavericks ) ; they actually built this into the newest version of Safari which is included . If you do n't want to venture down that route , there are a few Safari extensions you can use to accomplish your goal . ClickToPlugin and/or ClickToFlash <URL> YouTube5 extension - blocks them by not supporting them <URL> 3 : AdBlock Plus - follow the development builds page ( the 2nd link ) to see when they release their version for Safari - I know it 's delayed right now but still in development , You 'll need to google this as I do n't have enough rep to post more than 2 links , sorry . Personally I run Mavericks , but also use ClickToPlugin ; it works for any ads that the newest version of Safari does n't catch .
In Safari 10.0.1 on macOS Sierra it is quite simple - you have to uncheck View > Always Show Toolbar in Full Screen to hide the toolbar . <URL>
Your instincts are correct . If a file is being modified when the program reads it , you will end up with a copy of it in a transient state ( or perhaps some programs like iPhoto that have a database that tracks files - the structure might not be correct to run with after a restore . ) This is why Time Machine makes two passes - it copies everything and then runs a second copy to pick up any files that were in the process of being modified during the first pass . Of course , a file under constant change might not get saved in either case , but it reduces the odds of a critically vital file that does n't get changed often will be caught in a delicate moment . To be safe , you want to boot to another OS ( the recovery HD or an external drive ) to run imaging if you need to ensure a perfect copy and all files being closed and flushed properly to storage .
Manually enter your username and password . Tap " Passwords " right above your keyboard . Tap " Save This Password . " It still wo n't autofill when you first load the page , but now you can tap in the username field and hit " Autofill Password . " There seems to be no way to actually reset the " Never for this site " setting . Sounds like a job for <URL> .
Actually , if you just want to remove the " @me " from the " from " drop down when creating an email ( I found this excruciatingly annoying ) , go to Preferences , Account Information , and then in the Email Address field , delete the " @me " address , so that only your cool . Mac is in there .
One way to tell if a device has connected to your iTunes is to check the preferences and see if there is a device backup . When you can connect a device to iTunes it creates a backup of the device ( if you are syncing stuff to and from it ) . In your case it sounds like you wan na find out if your books have been syncing to another device . Open iTunes Preferences : Windows : Choose Edit > Preferences Mac : Choose iTunes > Preferences There will be no way for you to see what specifically was sycned , this will only tell you if a device has synced , and when .
That feature is part of Lion and QuickTimeX , but you can disable it . Open your terminal ( / Application/Utilities/Terminal . app ) or use Spotlight to find the Terminal and type : That should stop QuickTime from saving the opened windows when you quit it . If you want to revert the behavior , change the " false " to " true " .
Though not directly answering your question this line will give you the time in seconds since the last user interaction which comes from what OS X considers to be an idle user . ( independently of screen-savers or black displays . )
I searched everywhere for a clean solution . Many solutions that worked for Lion and below no longer worked for Mountain Lion . However , this works and it took me hours to find . Enjoy ! <URL> From the website : In a search for a non-hacky way to disable direct mappings to iTunes for the play/pause/next / previous buttons in the keyboard in OSX , I stumbled across the " Remote control daemon " ( rcd ) . As it turns out , disabling the iTunes launch behavior for these keys is as easy as unloading rcd with the following command :
The answer appears to be no . The Snow Leopard installer refuses to install over a newer version of Mac OS . Solution was to use Snow Leopard DVD to revert to pre-Lion state . The good news is that there are no issues with Boot Camp as such , only with finding the Mac OS partition from the Windows Boot Camp control panel . It 's very difficult to find the Boot Camp software for Windows on Apple 's site ( legendary ease of use ) so it helps to keep that software around for a re-install . After the Boot Camp re-install on Windows everything worked fine . Snow Leopard 's System Preferences just finds the Windows partition .
I do n't believe there 's a way to do it without jailbreaking . Because of the security restrictions on what apps can access , and particularly the limited functionality when running in the background , I 'm pretty sure it 's impossible without jailbreaking ( and maybe even if you do jailbreak ) . If you 're looking to make a screen-cast or something similar , the technique I 've heard is popular ( at least with <URL> , who does a lot of iOS app videos ) is using the iPhone simulator included with Xcode .
Make sure you do n't have in any of the forms . This is the primary way that a website can tell a browser not to save passwords . By default , if the website does n't have anything , the browser will be happy to save passwords , so odds are that your website contains something like that somewhere .
At the moment you ca n't . My guess is it will be included in the next iOS update though .
From testing , it seems you ca n't break that link without having to re-download . Since the change requires you to synchronize the phone , you will need to re-download the files from the phone once you 've un-ticked the box , since the synchronize does remove the applications completely . Unfortunately the answer to your question is right now there is n't a default way , but I suspect it will become possible in future iTunes versions . I have looked for possible hacks to do this and have yet to find one that does n't require jail breaking to copy the files back .
To force the usage of the discrete graphics card in your macbook you can uncheck the automatic graphics switching checkbox in the system preferences / energy saver panel As the message states , this does drain the battery faster . However , your mac should not behave as you describe , I suggest taking it to a service desk so apple can take a look at it , or call apple to ask why it is so choppy .
Thankfully , you can still disable the trackpad in OS X Lion . Open System Preferences , click on Universal Access , select Mouse &amp; Trackpad and click on Trackpad Options ... at the bottom . Tick the checkbox " Ignore built-in trackpad when mouse or wireless trackpad is present " .
Yes - you can use Automator to make a service for Finder ( or all applications ) to perform rotation of images . Then you can assign a keyboard shortcut to that action . I 'm not aware of quicklook plug-in that rotate , but that 's something that might exist . Modifying finder 's shortcut bar might be the least likely way to activate things , but hopefully an Automator service ( or app / droplet ) will do .
end question
start question
How do i fully delete an old account so that it stops asking for updates ?
By the general term " app " , you ostensibly mean App Store ? And if you did delete his Apple ID , then it would n't ask for updates . You can either use a third-party program to remove those apps , or first delete them from the applications directory , then from Application Support located at . If you can not find it , then go to Terminal , located in and execute : Then you can just delete the folder under the name of that app Then , simply logout of his Apple ID if you failed in deleting it , and login your Apple ID
If you ca n't erase the card from your camera does the camera at least recognize the card ? Can you take a picture and have it saved to the card ? If not the card may be damaged or your camera 's card reader may be damaged . Either way , try putting the card in a card reader attached to your Mac 's USB port ( or if you have a later model MacBook Pro or iMac , in the computer 's built in SD card reader ) and see if the Mac recognizes it and mounts it on the desktop or in a Finder window . If it does , run Disk Utility and erase it there . Generally these cards are formatted MS-DOS ( FAT ) for use in Canon and other brand cameras and you can choose that format in Disk Tools . If you want a more secure erase you can use Disk Utility " Security Options ... " to accomplish that . If you can accomplish this with your computer , put the card back in your camera to see if it is recognized . If it is n't there may be something going on with the card reader on your camera . Just to be thorough , what brand , size , and speed is this SD card ? Some off-brand cards can develop issues like this ( directory or database problems during a shoot , do n't format correctly , etc. ) and it 's worth noting here that there are differences between brands of these cards . I 've never had a problem with dozens of Sandisk , Lexar , or Kingston brand cards of all types : compact flash and SD of all types , sizes and speeds .
From my understanding , once you migrate to iCloud Drive , your old ' Documents &amp; Data ' storage is converted &amp; no longer exists in its old location . Mavericks/iOS 7 ca n't see iCloud Drive &amp; Yosemite/iOS 8 ca n't see the old Documents &amp; Data , migrated or not . Refs : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
You might be interested in exporting all of the KeyChain in to Text file that you can save for later uses . Be aware anyone with access to your computer can now plainly see that information . Run this in Terminal You will have to click " Allow " till done , or use script that does that , but since it is usually one time action just do it manually .
It would help to understand what exactly are you trying to accomplish ? From what I read I think you want to limit the Smartphone Capability but want to use it for maybe 1 hour a day ? So is this a Data restriction question ? You can always turn off the Cellular data and or restrict what Cell data can be used for . This will allow you to answer phone calls but in order to use any of the Data features of the phone you will need WiFi .
This seems to work on El Capitan . Control-select the file , then Delete Immediately from pop-up menu and confirm .
Yes - if the enterprise entity is the one distributing the pass to end users , then you should be fine using that certificate to sign Passbook items . Any Apple generated code signing certificate should be sufficient to fulfill the requirements . If you are concerned after reading this , a quick call to developer support might help alleviate any concerns you have . Apple documents this at <URL> and the version 1.1 of this document states : Use of Apple-issued Certificates All passes need to be signed with an Apple-issued certificate to be recognized by Passbook . Passes should only be signed by the entity that will be distributing the pass under its own name , trademark , or brand , and that entity 's information should match the information on the back of the pass .
Thanks , for mentioning my app , <URL> ! I created it for myself , as well as other developers , who want to superimpose their screenshot onto an actual image of an iOS device , and have it displayed at an angle , with mirror effect . Makes a nice screenshot for iTunes or web or print ! The PRO version , for $ 0.99 , lets you provide your own background image . By default , it ships with an iPhone 4 . You can also download images that you can use for free , from <URL> . We will add iPad images in the future , but you can google for an acceptable one . A free version is awaiting Apple 's approval and it only uses the default background . ! [ AutoScreenshot 3D ] [ 2 ]
There are two things you can do about this , one on the device and one on <URL> : On the device , you can setup to sync the calendar only for the events in the past two weeks ( that 's the shortest duration in the past you can set it to ) . Do this by going to Settings → Mail , Contacts , Calendars Under the Calendars section , go to the Sync submenu Select Events 2 Weeks Back Login to <URL> , go to Calendar and follow Apple 's help on " <URL> " : To automatically hide past events , choose Preferences from the Action pop-up menu , click Advanced , select " Hide events n-days after they 've passed , " then enter a number of days . Set it to 1 day ( that 's the minimum allowed ) .
A lot of software updates ( particularly OS , driver and firmware updates ) can be found on <URL> . You can download them like any other file and just transfer them to your Mac Pro at your convenience . For software on the Mac App Store ( including bundled apps like iPhoto ) , there are n't separate downloads . You could try downloading the full apps on your MacBook then copying the application bundle over . For third party software , there are often separate patches available for download from the developer 's site .
It 's pretty common for a repair facility of any kind to ask for a username/password for the sake of verifying functionality . This is why it 's always a good idea to have a separate administrator account setup for these kind of tasks . Usually an " Administrator " account with a unique password works . I 've worked in the IT industry for almost 20 years , and I 've always appreciated when a user has a separate admin account . It makes working on the machine faster as there usually is n't as much stuff loading on start up . It also keeps me from seeing any of your information , which is great for legal reasons .
Will ( Time Machine ) delete the oldest backups only from the current machine 's backups ( the retina MBP ) , or will it delete the PowerBook 's backups since those are technically the oldest ( even though they 're from a different machine ) ? Time Machine only deletes the oldest backup for the current machine . OS X utilizes the File System Event Store to log each UUID during the backup process . Your machine 's UUID should match whatever backups have been done previously for that machine , and only that machine 's events are handled . All other events are effectively ignored . You 'll need to thin them out by hand using this command : <URL>
Yes - if you trust Apple to never lose the photos , you can delete all your local copies . Pay attention to which devices have full resolution images and which have " optimized " settings . Also , I 've been doing this for iTunes Match for some time . I have only lost a few dozen songs in two years of trusting the cloud . For that reason , I now set alarms every 6 months to download a local copy of all the songs from iCloud and back that up to an external HD . I 'll be doing the same with my iCloud photo library to be sure I never lose all the photos . I would add , that if the thought of losing a dozen photos or <URL> if your account should get messed up for engineering to work out the problem is n't your cup of tea , you might keep your originals on hard drives and in filesystems you know you have the tools to work with directly .
I saw your question before , but was at a loss to provide specific information . However , I took a look at <URL> . In particular on the page , <URL> , I noted that it 's actually the hardware address , not the user ID , that is used as identification by Time Machine . From the page : Each Mac is identified by a hardware address internal to the Mac . It 's embedded in the Logic Board ( motherboard ) . The hardware address is n't displayed in the backups , but is kept in an extended attribute of the folder representing the Computer . That 's why when you get a new logic board , Time Machine thinks you got a new Mac . That 's also why you can rename your Mac ( System Preferences > Sharing ) and Time Machine will automatically rename the Computer folder on the backups ; or you can have two Macs with the same name , but Time Machine still knows which backups belong to which Mac . However , on the same page , Pondini goes on to say that each backup volume is assigned a Universally Unique IDentifier ( UUID ) that is in the extended attributes of the volume . Pondini says that this " should " cause Time Machine to automatically recognize the old backup . However , if Time Machine does not automatically recognize the old backup via the UUID , then there is a <URL> . It 's getting fairly involved at that point , and though it might be worth the effort from an investigative standpoint , you might be better off starting your Time Machine backups from scratch ( just to wipe the slate clean , so to speak ) .
Usually this is a problem with spotlight . The simplest step is to shut down the mac , disconnect all external drives , and start up to make sure no extra volumes are mounted . The next step would be to <URL> index . Lastly , search in other user accounts to be sure another user did n't somehow install or copy that App into their home folder .
Do you mean to Jailbreak your phone , or to unlock it so you can use it on a different network ? Unlocks currently depend on your firmware version , which you can check by going to settings >> general >> about and looking at the version number . If you can confirm then we could find the right unlock for your phone , supposing it can be unlocked .
What worked for me was deleting the Keychain prefs . Re-entered passwords as required , and that worked . phew !
While I 'm not abosultely sure , how achieved my result , but after a reboot the update for one app-store app is gone now . What I did : the following is tested on old Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app ( free from appstore ) , before my tests the app-store showing an available update for it . Right click on app , select Show package contents go to " Contents " Move the following files and folders to some backup place ( folder ) reboot If that does n't work , remove these additional items from the package contents : - ( folder ) - ( alias ) Maybe it is not enough , ( in my tests i did the following too ) , try : Go to ( alt-click on Finder 's Go menu , select Library ) Caches move to backup location the folder reboot After the above steps , the AppStore do n't showing the available update for the " Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app " . Warning : all the above is tested only in one app , need more testing , it is absolutely without any warranty and do n't blame me when your computer will burn , get grabbed by extraterrestrial aliens or anything other ...
These search terms : bluetooth mouse , os x Most Bluetooth mice work well with OS X.
Syncing the notes to your computer , then moving the notes to your email notes and letting it sync back to the phone would be the easiest . Without syncing you could email each note to yourself by clicking the envelope icon at the bottom of each note . Then turn it into a note in your email account , of course this would take a long time but you would n't have to sync with your computer .
end question
start question
How can I view locations of layers in PSD files without photoshop on osx ?
I have no experience with this , but I found a <URL> .
There is a wine port for OS X : <URL> From the project page : Current Status ( x86 ) Wine works well on OSX for Intel based Macs minus a proper distribution package ( Mac Application Bundle ) to fully integrate with " drag and drop " and " open " or " open with " functionality . Wine also has shortcomings with desktop icon integration and execution of certain types of DOS or blended Windows/DOS programs . ( Notice that Darwine , the original effort to port Wine to OS X , was primarily written for PowerPC Macs . Some work was done to support Intel Macs , but it is <URL> , so you are better off avoiding it . ) There are no official Wine packages available for Intel Macs as of this writing , so you 'll have to use a third-party application like WineBottler ( <URL> ) , PlayOnMac ( <URL> , for Snow Leopard and Lion ) . or Wineskin ( <URL> , for Lion and Mountain Lion ) . daviewales has mentioned in a comment below a package manager I did n't know of called Homebrew ( <URL> ) . You may want to give it a try . Otherwise you can try the commercial product CrossOver , which is basically Wine with , as Wikipedia puts it , various compatibility patches added , more user-friendly configuration tools , and commercial support . You can download a free trial here : <URL>
There 's no exact equivalent that I 'm aware of ; I usually rubberband-select a region and then command-click the ones I do n't want . Mouse down at the top left of the area you want to select , drag to the bottom right of the area , release . A rubberband will be highlighted as you drag the mouse ; all icons within the rubberband will be selected . It 's also possible to chain these by holding Shift or Option for the second and successive selections , so you can add additional selections or deselect icons selected previously .
You can always use the terminal command with the option : [ Option - P will ] Overwrite regular files before deleting them . Files are overwritten three times , first with the byte pattern 0xff , then 0x00 , and then 0xff again , before they are deleted . If you 're not handy with the Terminal , just : Open the Terminal.app ( Found in / Applications/Utilities ) . Type and drag the folder which contains the file you want to delete , to the terminal window . Type and hit Enter
The only option I have found is in Settings - > General - > Background App Refresh that shows all apps that are currently capable and enabled to do the refreshing . Unfortunately there is no indication of which one was active recently .
Once you 've installed it ( I used Macports ) your file should look like this , at a minimum : The command opens the default GUI application for whatever it 's passed . In this case it 's passed a http : / / URL so it opens it in the default browser .
That looks like a shell script that is missing the shebang at the top of the file . It could be that it is intended to be copied into an existing script to provide OS X-specific functionality so the main script can be portable ( I 'd expect there to be dotfiles for other operating systems , as well . ) On the other hand , it could be intended as a file of ideas and you pick the ones you want and paste them into your or .
Deleting the files from an individual app and doing a clean install of Mountain Lion are two different things . As per mckeed 's answer , you can use AppZapper to delete an individual app , other alternatives being <URL> or <URL> , although the latter could be a bit overkill for what you want . Fresh install for ML is a different story though , I did a fresh install the other day and I 'm super glad I did - I 'm one of those people who just collects apps and files they do n't need and everything gets a bit clogged after a while . Simple instructions to do so are : Start off by backing up whatever you need ( I know this ones a bit obvious ) , save anything you want to keep to an external harddrive . You 'll need to get your hands on another external harddrive or usb stick at least 8gb , and it has to be empty as we 're going to use this to make a mountain lion boot disk . If it 's not empty , do n't worry we 'll erase it in step 7 . Download mountain lion from the app store , but do n't install it otherwise the app disappears and you 'll have to re download it . Secondary click ( right click , whatever you want to call it ) the install icon and choose " show package contents " from the menu . When the contents of the install file are displayed you 'll see a folder called " SharedSupport " , open this up and you 'll find a file called " installESD.dmg " . Copy this file somewhere so you know where to find it . Open " utilities " in your applications folder and open " Disk Utility " Plug in your blank USB drive from step 2 . You 'll now see it in the left pane of the disk utility window , click on it to select it . Click on the " Erase " tab in the main disk utility pane . Change the " format " dropdown to MAC OS Extended ( Journaled ) and then name your disk something that makes sense to you like " Mountain Lion Install " . Click erase . Click on the " Restore " tab in the main disk utility pane . In the " source " section , you 'll need to navigate to and select the " InstallESD.dmg " file we copied earlier . In the destination tab you 'll need to select your now clean drive . Click Restore . The drive and your mac will now make whirry and buzzy noises for a while . When it 's done cooking it will tell you . You now have a Mountain Lion boot disk . Restart your computer with the new Mountain Lion drive plugged in still and immediately hold down the option key when it starts back up . If you 've done this right , instead of booting OSX you 'll see a picture of your drive to select . Click on the disk you created earlier to boot from it . Now the scary part . You do n't want to install just yet , somewhere on the screen there is an option for utilities , I think from memory it 's in the top bar . Click utilities and select " disk utility " which looks alot like ( actually exactly like ) the disk utility app you used to make the disk earlier . This time , select your macs harddrive in the left pane and click the erase tab , make sure the format is set to MAC OS Extended again and click erase . You 've now erased your harddrive . Close out of the utilities window and continue the installation as normal installing Mountain Lion onto your newly clean Harddrive ! Hope all this helps , best of luck !
Not true - mean sure can install apps from dmg . The Lion remain a full-blown OS , with all common functions , like Terminal.app , root access , Developer system , and so on . When here is no way block installing applications if you will have a root access , so Apple sure will NOT TRY do this . The following is only my opinion : On the other side - most of developers will sell their apps via AppStore ( because it is easy ) , so here will be less " demo downloads " ( what was possible activated by simple serial # ) . IMHO , over the time will be here more and more application in AppStore in two versions , like for example : SudokuLite.app ( like current demo versions ) - free , Sudoku.app ( full paid version )
If they are using real Unicode emoji , you can not see them without the Apple Color Emoji font , which only works in 10.7 , or possibly by downloading and installing a black/white font that has them , like Symbola or Quivira . Unicode emoji were only standardized in October of 2010 and I think there are various apps which may not recognize them anyway . Here is Timothy 's test using the Symbola font in 10.6
<URL> have a workaround they call <URL> . I have n't tested this , but came across it a while ago . ... Once downloaded , the Icon Fixer ' app ' will appear as a greyed out icon on your device . It 's basically an app that never fully installs and this frozen state is what keeps the apps in order when using Kidslox .
You can do an Archive &amp; Install which will reinstall OS X but keep your files . Do n't forget to make a backup before you reinstall in case something goes wrong . Boot with ⌘ R to enter the Recovery HD . Choose Reinstall OS X. Follow the instructions .
It does run , but Snow Leopard does not install Rosetta by default . Rosetta is needed to run PowerPC applications on Intel Macs . You can install Rosetta from the Snow Leopard disk . I believe you will be prompted to do this when you try to run Photoshop .
well , the only way that I could find out was to use password protected Restrictions . Looks like I have to manually set the Restrictions password on each device and then turn on the Location services restriction . If anyone comes up with a better solutions , please let me know .
I looked for some generic commands that display/manipulate kernel extensions . got my attention and based on its output , the 4th column is The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies . If this is zero , the kext is a built-in part of the kernel that has a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts . The only problem was that its size was in hexadecimal . So I converted the hexadecimal to decimal and printed only relevant information ( like kext bundle id ) . Breaking it down : - print a list of loaded non-built-in kexts - pipe the output to , convert the 4th " size " column from hexadecimal to decimal , print that and the kext bundle id . - pipe the output to command and sort the list using numerical comparison ( so that " 10 " is not less than " 1 " ) . You can pipe the output to to get top 3 memory hoggers . Here are mine : Update : you can also pipe this to to see which non-apple kexts are loaded .
I guess the status bar was just hidden . You can show it by checking Show Status Bar from the View menu .
I believe that whilst this capability is not included in the official dropbox app , it is possible to accomplish using GoodReader for iPad . Open GoodReader on iPad and expand the section in the bottom right of the main screen which says " Connect to Servers " Tap " Add " Tap " Dropbox " Enter your details and click add Now tap the server you just added ( I called it " Dropbox " ) In the bottom right hand corner of the popover that just came up is a button saying upload . Tap it . Select the files you want to upload and tap " Upload " You will only need to do steps 5-7 the second time
You can create two folder actions , one for images : one for videos : Both should be setup to receive files from Downloads folder . The first step filters images and videos files . The second step moves those files in the appropriate folder . Be sure that folder action is attached to your directory ( right click on directory , ) . To let Automator wait for the download to complete , you can add a step , before the step , similar to this :
There should be a preference thing on YouTube to select HTML5 , but they 've reorganized the page so many times since I last tracked it down that I have no idea where it is now . Instead , I have ClickToFlash installed ( it 's under " Most Popular " in the Safari Extensions Gallery ) ; open its preferences ( Safari Preferences ... > Extensions ) and you can tell it to always use HTML5 for YouTube and other sites that support HTML5 in place of Flash .
You can force Preview to prompt for save on quit with the following Terminal command : Quit and re-open Preview once and you will be prompted in future closes
end question
start question
How to recover previously saved text file after an overwrite and a reboot ?
There is little hope unless one or both of the editors squirrel away copies of the file for you or embed the undo buffer in the document . It really depends on the editors and the settings . One last ditch effort is to use the command . If that file had a memorable string or misspelling you could see in an instant if any files on the disk contain that string . If you search for a common string , you 'll have a lot of false positives , but it 's worth a shot . In this case , even software that recovers deleted files wo n't be of use when another editor truncates the file . It was shredded and not simply deleted On a personal note , We all learn this lesson about data loss in a personal way , usually many times over . It 's not overkill to have both version control and an automated backup system . Time Machine is marvelous in that it makes hourly snapshots so you lose at most an hours work . Files that have been around for [ a day | a week ] are saved for [ a month | until the drive fills ] . It really works well in practice , and if you have local backups , you might even have snapshots more often than one an hour to recover a file . Sorry to hear you lost work , it 's never a good feeling .
I dug around for quite a long time to find this answer and finally found out that under the info box , there is a drop-down menu in the Info box under Info > Options : And the drop-down menu allows you to choose where it will show up : All that converting was done for nothing ...
A support request was filed and Bare Bones responded quickly . TextWrangler sets the file type ( com.apple.FinderInfo ; file icon ) when it determines that the file name can not be used to determine that it is a text file . The exact determination here is not too important ; as I found , hence I would assume that source code files would fall into this category . The text encoding is a standard attribute and is set to indicate the file 's character encoding . To disable the writing of these extended file attributes , the following command is used ; The command itself is documented in the TextWrangler help files ; but not how it relates to the character encoding and file associations . To find and clear the attributes of the modified file ( s ) , you can use the following standard commands ;
If you have asked Siri to Send a new Message to some person , Siri Normally asks " Do you want me to send it " when it thinks you have finished . Saying " Send " normally works . And Siri will say " Ok then I will send the Text message . . " I do not think there is a way to do it after you have used dictation . Apples dictations <URL>
Open the Energy Saver pane in System Preferences . There 's an option to Restart automatically if the computer freezes , if you check that you should get the behaviour you desire . Note that there are two tabs in Energy Saver -- one for when you 're on battery and one for when you 're running from the power adapter ; make sure you set it for each state you want .
You shouldnt need to buy it as it is included as part of the iLife suite which comes with all Macs . From : <URL> Insert the Applications installation disc and double-click the Install Bundled Software icon . If your computer came with an iLife installation disc , or you purchased a newer version of iLife , insert that disc instead . Follow the onscreen instructions . Then , in the Installation Type pane , click Customize . Click the disclosure triangle next to Bundled Applications , select the checkbox next to the application you want to install , then click Install .
In Applescript editor File - > Save As and choose File Format as Application . Open Bundle Contents drawer and see the applet.icns file , copy your icon to that . See " Saving a script as an application " in Applescript Editor help .
Booting to Internet Recovery Mode boots directly to a netboot image provided by Apple/Akamai servers . The netboot image is a stripped down OS X version which only provides some diagnostic tools and a tool to either restore OS X or a Time Machine backup . The downloaded OS is completely loaded to RAM and nothing is written to hard disks . After shutting down/rebooting the Mac the RAM is wiped and everything has to be downloaded again if you want to start to Recovery Mode a second time . To create a Recovery HD on your Mac you have to install OS X ( Restore OS X ) . While downloading and installing OS X a recovery partition will be built also . Another option is to set up a Mac running Server.app and <URL> . That will keep a copy of the recovery image locally in cache and speed up the download - perhaps 100x as fast if you have a gigabit speed network locally .
Indeed a severe annoyance . I spent a lot of time on the phone to Apple and no solution was achieved , only " wait " . I ended up doing a simultaneous reinstallation of OS X 10.10.3 and my iOS 8 devices and this has apparently made them go away . I have since upgraded to OS X 10.11 and iOS 9 and they disappeared for several months . However , they have just come back this AM for no apparent reason on startup .
⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 3 will screenshot the entire screen and save it to your desktop . ( You should hear a camera sound when you do this . ) ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 4 will give you crosshairs to use to select an area for copying . Move the crosshairs to the location that you want to copy and click the upper left , dragging the crosshairs to the lower right of the area you want . When you release , you will hear the same camera sound , and the screenshot will save to your desktop . Also , ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 4 , then Space , then clicking any window will save that window to a screenshot . To change the location of the saved screenshot , launch Terminal and use the following command : Make sure you change to be the location where you want your screenshots to go .
The answer is yes and no . What happens quite easily after a restore ( for example after an update ) is that iTunes restores the save data for all applications , but not the applications themselves . Therefore as soon as you install them , the old save games will be available ( this applies to all apps , not just games ) . Just by itself nothing will be saved without backup . BUT : If the application supports iCloud sync and stores it 's data in iCloud ( which has to be explicitly supported ) , your data will be still available after deleting and reinstalling the app . In short : You should be really careful and unless you 're absolutely sure the application in question does support iCloud for your saved data , do n't delete it without backup .
Seems that 8.0.2 's update for iOS fixed the problem for me .
<URL> does what you want . Also see <URL> on SuperUser . The only major limitation of Relaunch is it does not ( yet ) support Spaces ( virtual desktops ) .
Use FFMPEG It 's open source , free and its libraries are what Handbrake ( and others ) use to encode MPEG file formats . If you are going to have to use their software anyway , why not get it from the source ? You can download it from here : <URL> Once you have it installed , just issue the command in Terminal : Where input.mov and output.mp4 are the actual file names and paths of the files you want to convert from and to respectively . I used to use Handbrake and VLC in the past to do this sort of thing , but ever since I discovered FFMPEG command line utility , I have no need for either apps any longer .
What version of CorelDRAW ? What 's the workflow ? . CDR is a proprietary format , so I 'm not aware of any proper supported exporters . The <URL> reverse-engineered the format , and claims to have the best support . But since recent versions of CorelDRAW can <URL> , I think you would get the best results to just save it as . ai and import it into CorelDRAW .
Assuming that you 've tried resetting while the iPod is connected to a power source , there 's really not much else that can be done . The Apple Store , or an Authorized Apple Service Provider , is pretty much your only option at this point . Also , how long has the iPod been doing this ? If it was subject to extreme conditions for an extensive amount of time , or if it suffered liquid damage , it may be broken beyond repair ( or repair may be cost-prohibitive , assuming it 's no longer under warranty ) .
Check this question for the sentence structure you need to use to achieve this : <URL> Add " list name " reminder " new item " on " date and time " Example : " Add activities reminder basketball practice on friday at 2pm . "
The set of available columns appears to be fixed , and there is no language column . But the way to change the set of displayed columns is by contextual menu ( right-click ) on the column headers . ( At least in 12.1 -- Apple seems to take pleasure in making sure we ca n't ever get accustomed to any particular UI for iTunes . ) There is a " category " column which I will use . Not ideal , but better than usurping BPM or grouping . Update : Changed my mind . I can put lang : es ; in Grouping and search for that in a " smart playlist . " That still allows me to put other things in Grouping .
That looks like a shell script that is missing the shebang at the top of the file . It could be that it is intended to be copied into an existing script to provide OS X-specific functionality so the main script can be portable ( I 'd expect there to be dotfiles for other operating systems , as well . ) On the other hand , it could be intended as a file of ideas and you pick the ones you want and paste them into your or .
I 'm assuming there is nothing on the USB stick you need to recover , since you were writing over it with dd . Plug it into your macbook and if it shows up with in / dev as a proper device , you should be able to use dd to clear the beginning and end of the stick to make it look like a brand new USB stick . dd if = / dev/zero of = / dev/disk __ bs = 1024 count = 100 will clear the beginning of the stick . ( Be absolutely sure that you have the correct device id for the " of = " parameter !! Make sure it was n't there right before you inserted the USB stick into the computer . ) However , there may be a GPT partition at the end of the stick . To write to the end , you 'll probably want to use seek = with the number of blocks on the device minus 50 or so . Once those are cleared , you should be able to add a new partition table to the USB stick using the disk utility . If that does n't work , using the first form without " count = 100 " would overwrite the whole stick with zeros . That 's probably overkill , but at that point any system should recognize it as a new device
end question
start question
Does Voice Dictation on the New iPad require a network connection ?
Yes . With many methods of voice dictation , what happens is that your voice is recorded and digitized , and your speech is broken up into phrases which are uploaded over the Internet to a powerful computer server which translates your speech into text and then transmits the text back to your device . However , there is a long history of programs for Mac and PC which perform voice dictation and transcription entirely on your Mac or PC without using an Internet connection . I do n't know of any apps for iOS that perform voice transcription entirely on the device without using a connection to a server on the Internet .
As you can find <URL> , in the Apple Developers webpage : Xcode 7 requires a Mac running OS X version 10.10.4 or later . It includes SDKs for watchOS 2.0 , iOS 9 , and OS X version 10.11 . As you see in the attached pic , Yosemite can still be valid to run XCode7 , if it is updated to the 10.10.4 + version required . <URL>
<URL> You can use netspot to basically create a ' map ' of your location , and see network information around you . It will show you areas that network connectivity may suffer . You can then revisit the data points to possibly determine better locations for your router , or where the worst offending networks are to better decide which channels to use .
Here or the specifications used by Apple 's official charging cords . 5 volts 1.0 amps If your interested in making one for iPads you can use 5.1 Volts and 2.1 Amps <URL>
Whilst the device hardware does support Wi-Fi Direct , the limitation in this case is software . There is currently no software on iOS that connects to a wireless hard drive through Wi-Fi Direct , but that has n't stopped apps being developed to take advantage of this -- Seagate has an app that connects to wireless hard drives : <URL>
Okay , after a bit more of searching online , found the driver , installed it and it works . Here 's the link for anyone else who might need : <URL> Thanks .
This behaviour happens beacuse the dock just launches an app . Finder is classified as an app , so it will open/show the app window , you will need to open a new window within the app . You can use the keyboard short cut CMD + N , and if you are not in the app press CMD + Tab to open it first . You could possibly try using <URL> , which makes custom keystrokes , so you could assign O to opening a new finder window
Yes . <URL> Video mirroring and video out support : Up to 1080p with Apple Digital AV Adapter or Apple VGA Adapter ( cables sold separately ) Video out support at 576p and 480p with Apple Component AV Cable ; 576i and 480i with Apple Composite AV Cable
It would depend on how you want to access the file . Here 's what I do : Initiate the connection to the remote computer ( I do it via Finder - > Go - > Connect to Server [ or Command + K ] ) but you can also do via terminal using the command Connect to the shared folder/volume available to your user When connecting to those in Terminal , you would now use the path to access them . For example , if you connected to a folder called Stuff with a subfolder called Things , and ultimately file jackpot.txt on ip 10.10.1.5 , first connect via smb to the server ( 10.10.1.5 ) , choose the folder Stuff , and then reference that path in Terminal as / Volumes/Stuff/Things / jackpot.txt EDIT : You can also run a Find command ( Command + F ) inside of Finder while you are connected to the share if you still do n't know where the file is . Do the following : Open Finder , connect to the server/volume ( Steps 1 +2 above ) Run Command + F to Find , enter your search term Above the Finder section where files display , switch the search to " Shared " - this will run the search against connected volumes Locate the file you want , and then drag + drop it into an open Terminal window The path will be shown in Terminal
Yes this is definitely possible . I have created an ad hoc network on windows 7 and connected to it with my iPad 3 . Go to control panel > Network and Sharing Center Click setup a new connection or network Scroll down and choose Click setup a wireless ad hoc network give a network name and choose WEP encryption from the dropdown list . The password should be 10 characters long and I used all numeric digits for this . tick save this network . and click next at the bottom to create the network . On your iPad or other device select your network which will be broadcast with the name you chose and connect to that network with the password yo uused in step 4 . If the device fails to connect , try repeating this process again . It took me a couple times but worked eventually . After Connecting , you must also setup network sharing in order to connect to the internet . You must have an internet connection on either LAN or a different Wireless card or some other device . Go to the Network and Sharing Center again in COntrol Panel . Choose on the left sidebar Change adapter settings to get to Network Connections select the network connection that is connected to the internet ( The LAN or alternate wireless / other device ) and right click and choose properties . Go to the Sharing tab and check Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's internet connection . Select the network connection that you were using to broadcast the ad hoc network for the associated network connection . Click on the Settings button which will bring up a window with a list of services to allow or deny for users using this internet connection via the ad hoc ICS ( internet connection sharing ) Check at least HTTP and probably HTTPS protocols , SMTP for email , POP3 for email as well if you need , etc. . . and Click Ok when you 're done . Click Ok again on the original window . In some cases you may need to restart the network connection connected to the internet for the changes to take effect . I hope this helps !
The Acrobat Reader installer not only installs the application itself into but contains a bunch of other packages which need to get installed into other places ( e.g. browser plugins ) . These things ca n't get installed by just using a simple application bundle ( at least not as easily ) . <URL>
It is a feature called activation lock <URL> I would suggest changing your Apple ID password to something simple then after about 5 minutes change it back
According to this <URL> this is standard for most users . But there is Jailbreak solution with external app called Insomnia <URL> is an iPhone native application that , when enabled , will prevent the iPhone from sleeping , thus overriding its default behavior . This allows background applications to continue to run and WiFi to work long after the screen has been switched off . ( The iPhone 's default behavior is to sleep 30 seconds after the screen has gone off , when not docked and charging that is ) . Downside of this is your cpu etc is still running so battery will go down quickly . There is also a <URL> for Cisco VPN with SBSetting with Jailbreak that might work for non-Cisco software ( as in the built-in VPN ) but as I have n't tested it it 's hard to say :-) It may be that the blog mentions the built-in VPN but I ca n't verify it myself . It 's not clear whether it mentions Cisco app or the built-in VPN ( and just names it Cisco VPN ) .
No , this does not work . I started a background recording with DropVox , then switched over to PlainText and tapped the dictation button and dictated a sentence . I then switched back to DropVox and it looked like it was still recording ( the counter was still going up ) . I stopped it , it uploaded the file , but when I listened to it the start and end were there , but the part from when I started dictating to when I opened DropVox back up was n't . Very strange , but ultimately the answer is it does n't work . If you 're curious , the resultant audio file can be found <URL> . " And it looks like the timer 's still going " was said after DropVox opened back up .
It 's not locked to any one carrier so you should be able to insert a Micro SIM card for your local carrier and it will work . The catch is that there are different sets of GSM frequencies in use , so you should verify that your chosen carrier uses frequencies supported by the iPad . Odds are it will work , but better to be safe . From the <URL> , here is what it supports : UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) The broader situation is that the only problematic ( less interoperable ) 3G iPad is the Verizon-specific model sold in the USA
Apple will register a device to anyone who presents it for service . It does n't mean some database does n't still remember to whom it was sold or registered in the past , but in practice it does n't matter since possession is all that matters . As to paying for AppleCare , you should get it in the country where you live if at all possible . That ensures you do n't have to ship the device elsewhere if asked to do so . The plans are customized for the laws of each country - and in some cases , customized for states or provinces as needed within a country . Assuming the device was purchased from the US - you should also be fine buying AppleCare from the US store . Again , the warranty and service are valid worldwide , but in some cases , you will be responsible for shipping it to the country of purchase / AppleCare in cases where local service is not readily available .
The following conditions must be met in order for dictation to work : You <URL> . You should n't be using audio on your device ( e.g. if you are on a FaceTime call , the button will not appear . ) You must be focused in an text field which is formatted for normal text ( more about this below . ) Developers ( and even <URL> ) can choose which keyboard layout will be visible to the user , via the <URL> property . <URL> of several different keyboard layouts and what they look like on an iPhone ( without dictation ) . The dictation button is available in the following keyboard types : Standard ( UIKeyboardTypeASCIICapable ) But is not available in the following : Telephone ( UIKeyboardTypePhonePad ) URL ( UIKeyboardTypeURL ) Email ( UIKeyboardTypeEmailAddress ) Zipcode ( UIKeyboardTypeNumberPad )
I am running Skype 5.7 on a Mac without Flash installed . It does not complain about its absence . The ' Home ' screen initially showed a blank box which was clearly a Flash video with a demo for something . That has now disappeared . It looks like Skype will use Flash if its installed but it is not required .
we called Apple they said we need to re-set the iPad
You may want to give <URL> a try or <URL> . Both work on iPad with instructions <URL> and <URL> .
end question
start question
How do you switch dictionaries used for the " Tap with three fingers " lookup ?
You select the dictionary in Dictionary.app > Preferences . For info about adding dictionaries , see <URL>
Alot depends on what Mac Mini you have . Early Mac Minis only had a single DVI out , later versions had mini DVI out , still newer versions had a mini DVI and a mini DisplayPort out , and the newest all metal version has a mini DisplayPort and HDMI out and comes with an HDMI to DVI adapter . Negrino was correct in saying that you could get a USB to DVI adapter but you might only have to get one of them , depending on your Mac Mini 's video out ports . If you have an early G4 or Core Solo Mini , you would have to get 2 adapters . For a little clarification , are you planning on mirroring your desktop 3 times or having 1 desktop extended over 3 monitors ? If it is the first option then you could simply get a VGA or DVI Y adapter that would mirror the image coming out of one port to 2 or more monitors .
Mac OS X is compatible with the aff/dic open format dictionaries . All you need to do is to get one dictionary , and place it inside ~ / Library/Spelling ( you may have to create the directory ) . Get the <URL> from OpenOffice ( or <URL> ) Extract the file using <URL> or rename the extension to . zip and extract it Move the files with the . aff and . dicc extensions ( ro_RO . aff and ro_RO . dic for Romanian ) in ~ / Library/Spelling . Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Text > Spelling and choose the language of your choice ... boom ! you have system-wide spell checking :)
You can and you ca n't at the same time . Safari will load the PDF automatically and display it but it will offer a " Open In " button where you can send the PDF to another application if it is configured by the developer to accept PDFs ( eg . iBooks , GoodReader , etc. ) At present there is no way to direct it directly to another application unless that application will take a URL you could copy and paste .
You are able to use the Apple Watch when running without taking your iPhone with you . The caveat to do doing so is that you wo n't have access to any online services but the included fitness apps will work just fine ! This article at MacWorld has actually summarised exactly what you can and can not do when your watch is n't connected to your phone . The paragraph that might be of most interest to you is : If you want to go for a run without having to tote a bulky phone , the Apple Watch 's exercise capabilities are pretty much self-sufficient . All of the watch 's onboard sensors , such as the accelerometer and the heart rate monitor , keep on trucking even when your phone 's not around . Just fire up the Workout app , pick your exercise type and goal , and leave the iPhone at home . References : <URL>
Due to SiriKit API limitation , Siri can send a message only to a sigle " entity " , which could be a contact or an existing group but , actually , you ca n't write a message to multiple entities in a single action .
There are quite a few commands which let you do this in Mac OS X : Cmd + Tab for switching applications Cmd + ` for switching windows within applications F3/F9 for Exposé ( shows all windows in a graphical way , on trackpads you can do a 4-finger swipe down ) F10 for showing windows of a specific application in Exposé F11 for showing desktop and shoving all other windows to the side , on a trackpad its 4 finger swipe up There is also Spaces which is like having multiple desktops , where you can switch to and fro . You can enable it in the prefrence pane in System Preferences and suit the keyboard shortcuts to you liking
Go to system preferences and navigate to accessibility . Disable " Spring-loading delay . "
Greenpois0n rc5 Has been released and can do an untethered jailbreak on 4.2.1 without older SHSH blobs . <URL>
As far as I know , there is n't a limit . As long as the account is associated with the device , then any apps from that account can be put onto that device . If you own more than one device , you do n't have to purchase the app again . You could own one hundred iOS devices and pay for just one app .
Change the default calendar to " last selected calendar " then clicking a calendar via the " Calendar " button pop-over will actually set the currently active calendar for new events .
The exceptions are stored in Keychain Access . The certificate will be copied there , together with the trust settings . Double-click a certificate and you will be able to change it 's settings . Note : you can have trust setting on system level and user level ! They have separate keychains as listed in the sidebar .
Most typically , it is used for the <URL> , which can control iTunes , QuickTime and various other built in software . Additionally , 3rd party software ( see <URL> and <URL> ) also makes use of the device and can tie in much more functionality . In the past ( prior to Lion ) , the Apple Remote was an excellent companion to <URL> , a media manager that some call the predecessor to the Apple TV interface .
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
Open the iTunes store , click the triangle at the end of the App Store tab at the top , and choose iPod Click Wheel Games from the very bottom .
Γο το Συστεμ Πρεφερενψεσ / Λανγθαγε &amp; Τεχτ / Ινπθτ Σοθρψεσ , σεαρψη φορ Γρεεκ , αδδ ιτ . Νος υοθ μαυ τυπε θ φρομ κευβοαρδ . Go to System Preferences/Language &amp; Text/Input Sources , search for Greek , add it . Now you may type u from keyboard . Or you may just use Find and replace function in Edit menu to change ø to θ afterwards .
You select the dictionary in Dictionary.app > Preferences . For info about adding dictionaries , see <URL>
Yes , it works , but it 's not graceful , it 's ungainly : Source : <URL>
EDIT As of March 7th 2012 you can now delete individual photos from Photo Stream if you are running iOS 5.1 or iPhoto 9.2.2 Believe it or not , it seems you ca n't delete individual photos from iOS5 Photo Stream . It seems you 'll need to wait for them to scroll off as Photo Stream just holds your most recent 1000 pics . Deleting a picture from Camera Roll has no effect on the photos on Photo Stream . According to <URL> : iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You ca n't edit or delete photos from your Photo Stream . If you want to touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . So unless you delete it before it 's uploaded to the cloud , you need to follow the procedures below . You need to reset your Photo Stream from <URL> or turn off Photo Stream within iOS5 on your device . Turn off Photo Stream in iOS5 : Settings > iCloud > Photo Stream Switch off and then back on to clear Photo Stream on this device Repeat for each iOS5 device Reset Photo Stream on iCloud.com Sign into <URL> Click on your name in the upper-right corner Click on ' Advanced ' Click ' Reset Photo Stream ' to remove all Photo Stream pictures from iCloud
You ca n't set it to go back to the last Desktop you were in , but you can set it to go to a specific Desktop when you exit full screen . Just move the application in windowed mode to the desktop you want , right-click the app in the Dock and set to " This Desktop " . Whenever you come out of full screen , it will always go into windowed mode in that particular desktop .
end question
start question
What is a good RAW File Processor/Developer/Editor for Mac ?
Apple iPhoto '11 Let 's not forget that <URL> costs $ 15 in the Mac App Store , and that it has processing tools for RAW as well as frequently-updated profiles for working with many makes and models of cameras that produce RAW image files . Google Picasa <URL> is free and supports many RAW formats . Canon Digital Photo Professional version 3.11.26 is compatible with Mac OS X Lion . If you already own an earlier version that came with your Canon camera , you can download the updater from canon.com for free . Otherwise , here is how you can get it : <URL> comes on a CD with a suite of programs called Canon Digital Camera Solutions Disk ver . 38.1 . I recently bought a used Canon Powershot G10 whose seller did not provide the original software sold with a new Canon . So I called up Canon 's customer service , explained that I bought a used Canon , and asked them if I could purchase their tools on CD . They sold me the suite for US $ 20 plus tax and shipping ( it came to $ 27 ) . ... you may purchase the latest Canon Digital Camera Software Solutions disc for your camera through Canon USA 's Customer Support Center at 1-800-828-4040 . Residents of other countries should contact their regional Canon customer support center for further assistance . I installed the whole suite on Mac OS X Lion , then downloaded the latest updates from canonusa.com to make sure they were compatible with Lion . The suite includes Canon Digital Photo Professional , for processing RAW images , a batch-file processing utility called Canon Digital Photo Professional Batch , the Canon Image Browser for general photo management , and Photostitch for making panoramas .
If you have access to Photoshop , then I highly recommend <URL> . Back when I doing this , Iconbuilder made the creation of resources for a variety of platforms a snap .
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
<URL> states this clearly : To download OS X Server , developers should access the iOS or Mac developer portal to retrieve an App Store redemption code . If you have iOS development program go to : <URL> Scroll down Click Get download code Redeem the code Download your free version of OS X Server 3.0.3 This text is next to the button : OS X Server 3.0.3 Includes Xcode Server to enable continuous integration . Works with Xcode 5 to configure bots that automatically build and test your apps . Requires OS X Mavericks .
The file will be saved if the containing folder has not yet been backed up , otherwise it will be backed up next time Time Machine makes a backup . The backup will not be corrupted .
All volumes , including DMGs , are mounted in . You can get a list of mounted volumes by typing in Terminal . You can navigate to a Disk Image using .
While <URL> is a bit old , it still works This gives you a decent GUI interface to control default apps
<URL> - UnityGmer <URL> - UnityWidgets <URL> - DashboardGmer -- Get the best Mac OS X Dashboard Games . <URL> - RetroGmer -- Awesome Retro Gaming <URL> - GameWidgets -- Get Mac OS X Dashboard Games ! <URL> - UnityPlay <URL> - MacGmer <URL> - WidgetGmer -- Mac OS X Dashboard Games <URL> - GameCentr -- Get everything Mac Gaming ! <URL> - GmerApps <URL> - GmerWidgets -- Mac OS X Dashboard Games <URL> - TheDashboard -- Get Pimping Hot Mac OS X Dashboard Widgets <URL> - MacWidgets <URL> - DashboardCenter -- Get the best Dashboard Widgets for your Mac <URL> - DashboardClocks -- Get the best Mac OS X Dashboard Clocks <URL> - DashboardSearch -- Mac OS X Dashboard Search Widgets <URL> - DashboardCandy <URL> - DashboardWidgets <URL> - ClockWidgets -- Get the best Mac OS X Dashboard Clocks <URL> - Pimp my Dashboard -- Get The Best Mac OS X Dashboard Widgets <URL> - Get Mac Tips , Tricks , Tutorials , Updates , Downloads , News ... <URL> - MacSupport <URL> - Mac101 -- Get one to one with your Mac ! <URL> - MacTips -- Get Mac OS X Tips , Tricks , Tutorials , News ... <URL> - OS X Tips <URL> - GarageBand Tips <URL> - DashboardTips -- Get Tips and Tricks for your Mac OS X Dashboard <URL> - MacHelp <URL> - Mac Videos <URL> - iTunesSupport <URL> - SafariSupport <URL> - ChromeSupport <URL> - GoogleSupport <URL> - FirefoxSupport <URL> - AppCenter <URL> - MacWall -- Get beautiful wallpapers for your Desktop <URL> - MacCenter -- Get Mac OS X Tips , News and Apps <URL> - MacApps -- Get Mac Software , Tips and New ... <URL> - MacDesktop -- Get Mac OS X Desktop Enhancements and Customization <URL> - MacDownloads -- Find the most popular downloads for your Mac ! <URL> - DownloadCenter -- Get Mac Downloads , Updates and Support <URL> - MusicCenter -- Get Mac OS X Music Apps , Downloads and Support <URL> - MenuBars -- Get super smart apps for the Mac OS X menu bar ... <URL> - MacSearch -- Everything about search on Mac ! <URL> - DevCenter <URL> - XcodeTips -- Get Xcode Development Tips , Tricks and Guides <URL> - DashcodeTips -- Developer Tips for Dashcode <URL> - iOS Center -- Get iPhone , iPad and iPod Support <URL> - iOS Support -- Apps , News and Tips
Seems like the new answer is the Google + app for iOS .
You would n't have to buy a separate license , if you are a part of developer team on provisioning portal . Since you have a admin role , the certificates , devices and identifiers section should be visible to you . If you are not able to see them , probably the team agent has not yet accepted the latest terms and conditions released by Apple , with the new iOS and OSX . You just need to contact the Agent of your team to sort this issue .
<URL> is pretty solid , with a simple clean interface , and the ability to add feeds directly int he app - no Google reader required . I use Reeder now , which I think has a nicer , slicker interface , but Reeder requires Google sync - you ca n't add feeds directly in the app . Before that , I was very happy with NewsRack .
<URL> , based on Eclipse , has support for additional protocols , not just FTP . It 's free .
Is depends on the kind of editing you need to do . <URL> is on the App Store . Maybe <URL> too ?
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
I just do n't believe that thing that you want yet exists1 . But ... 1 ) There is <URL> which supports text highlighting for Python , Ruby , CSS and HTML and it supports FTP , SFTP and WebDAV connectivity ( but no version control support ) . It highlights 80 different file formats but not Django templates ( you can edit them like it 's just html ) . 2 ) <URL> supports online editing for any files under version control using their <URL> ( of course it 's not an app and it does n't support mercurial yet , but anyway if you like DVCS you should like Git and their Hub too :) . 3 ) <URL> . That 's what you need for mercurial and Django right ? But , Python is scriptable language which is distributed under <URL> so Apple can just remove <URL> from their App Store ( because they do n't like scripting stuff on their iOS devices and <URL> ) 1 That 's mainly because it 's too amazing to exist .
Comparison of Mac Mini and Mac Mini Server ( as of <URL> ) Processor : Server : Quad core i7 Mac Mini : Dual core i5 The base model of the Mac Mini does not support AES-NI which is recommended when using FileVault 2 . Graphics : Server edition and Mac Mini base model : integrated HD Graphics 3000 High end Mac Mini : dedicated graphics , AMD Radeon HD 6630M with GDDR5 Note : This is very recommended for Lion on large external displays . The integrated HD Graphics 3000 do <URL> in Lion as of 10.7.3 - even on my 15 '' MBP . Hard drive : Server : 2 x 500GB at 7400rpm Mac Mini : 1 x 500GB at 5400rpm - and thus quieter Optical Drive : Server : none Mac Mini : none Weight : The server edition weights 0.3 pounds more . Video , Audio , Network , Dimensions : same
For me , Hazel works best when I 'm using it in conjunction with other tools . On its own , in can seem a little lackluster or underwhelming , but when combined with other applications or used as the ' glue ' between them it really shines . One of my uses is to automatically organize PDFs of schedules from work . I 've got a Dropbox account , and make use of <URL> to allow me to email attachments straight into my Dropbox . The issue is that they 're not always consistently named , and I do n't feel like manually renaming them . I have Hazel watch the destination folder , and when a PDF arrives , whether its named 7.30 , 7/30 , 07-30 , etc , it automatically renames it , moves it to folder with other already acted on files , and archives away old versions . The result is that I have a nice archive of schedules , all consistently named/sorted . I use Hazel to help out with video encoding/tagging tasks . After encoding a file , Hazel picks up on it in the destination directory , and automatically renames it based on a consistent naming scheme . Once it does this , it applies a label to the file , and moves it to a new folder where files awaiting metadata live . Any file here gets passed through an automator script that adds some basic metadata ( show type , year , etc ) before passing it into <URL> for the final touches before throwing it into iTunes . It also handles more mundane tasks . Some trackers list . torrent files with a . txt extension . Hazel will monitor the downloads folder , and if a file with a . txt extension shows up , it checks the file 's " Where from " attribute , and if it matches a trackers website , it changes the extension to . torrent and moves the file into my Torrents directory so that Transmission can add it . There are times when I do n't need to see my Bootcamp volumes mounted on the desktop . Hazel can check for this volume , and it if sees it mounted , it 'll run a shell script to unmount it .
No RAM or processor replacement in the Mac Mini 2014 An <URL> teardown reveals this . And @Pol posted a link to <URL> were you can read about the soldered RAM . The processor and the RAM is soldered onto the motherboard . Even in a clean room , a soldering iron and a steady hand , it would be nearly impossible . You are not allowed to do this on your own , your warranty will expire on this one . You can replace your RAM yourself , Apple has even provided a guide on how to do it on similar hardware ( 2012 model ) . Here you can find the guide : <URL> . No problems with your warranty .
I decided to pay the $ 45 for the Synk update . I figured it would take more than an hour or two to try to get rsync to work with two-way syncing . It was worth $ 45 to me to not have to spend that time and to use a solution I already know will work .
I 'm not sure exactly what type of software development you 'll be doing , but I 'm guessing it 's something that requires a Mac as you already have a machine running Linux and Windows . In that case , a Mini will be more than sufficient for development using Xcode . Even the basic 2.5 Ghz dual-core i5 has a fast enough CPU , but if you have enough money I 'd go for one of the i7 models - they 're quad core and that could make a bit of a difference for big compiles , etc. . One thing to be aware of - it 's not possible to upgrade the CPU , so buy the fastest you can afford . RAM and storage you can upgrade later on , when you have money . Two recommendations I 'd make Make sure you have enough RAM . It 's probably cheaper to buy this from a third-party rather than Apple and I 'd recommend at least 8GB , 16GB if you can afford it . It 's easy to install yourself ( just remove the bottom cover and slot it in ) and wo n't void your warranty . Get an SSD . Again , it 's cheaper to go third-party than buying from Apple . Installation is a bit more complex than installing the RAM but it 's still straightforward if you 're comfortable taking a computer apart ( see the various guides from <URL> ) . Doing it yourself will , in theory , void your warranty , so be careful ! I think you 'll be just fine using a Mac Mini for software development - I 'm perfectly happy using my i7 2012 model for development .
end question
start question
Does iOS 4 break iPhone compatibility with music docks ?
The answer from Apple Support is " Yes " , newer versions of the iOS software probably do disable support for " older " iPhone-compatible devices ( although likely " unintentionally " ) . The Apple Support representative advised downgrading the iOS version on my phone even though doing so would violate the terms of my AppleCare agreement ( and obviously , she could n't explain how to do it other than giving me some Google search terms ) . Moreover , she stated that with the release of iOS 5 coming up that I should hesitate to purchase any Apple iPhone or iPod accessories because they can not ensure compatibility . Unbelievable .
The answer from Apple Support is " Yes " , newer versions of the iOS software probably do disable support for " older " iPhone-compatible devices ( although likely " unintentionally " ) . The Apple Support representative advised downgrading the iOS version on my phone even though doing so would violate the terms of my AppleCare agreement ( and obviously , she could n't explain how to do it other than giving me some Google search terms ) . Moreover , she stated that with the release of iOS 5 coming up that I should hesitate to purchase any Apple iPhone or iPod accessories because they can not ensure compatibility . Unbelievable .
If you have a jail broken iPhone you can ssh into it and install tcpdump . Tcpdump is a command line program that wireshark is indirectly built off of .
You can still download the IPSW files that contain iOS from Apple - <URL> . Just find the correct 5.1.1 file for your model . The problem is installing that IPSW . The trick to make iTunes use a specific IPSW instead of downloading the latest from Apple is to hold option ( shift on Windows ) while clicking the Update or Restore buttons . There is a limit to how long Apple will allow installations of old versions ( without using jailbreak-related hacks ) , so you 'll want to try this ASAP .
Update : You do n't need to wait to be prompted to do the " figure eight thing " . You can do it any time to recalibrate the compass . The compass is really sensitive to outside influences . For example it is useless in my girlfriends BMW . It is consistently off by 135 degrees and doing the figure 8 does n't make any difference . It 's more of a toy than something you would want to depend on .
No - the OS picks channels algorithmically so you get what iOS chooses each time you enable personal hot spot . I 've seen personal hotspot pick channels 1 , 6 and 11 on iOS 7 when in moderately busy wireless environments like this one with 26 advertising base stations ( and a few hidden ones as well ) .
Since my speaker system is hooked up to my desktop computer I use <URL> to airplay music and podcasts from my iphone to my desktop .
It is somewhat hidden , but here 's how to find the controls . Start by tapping the bar at the bottom where you see the album art , currently playing song and play/pause and next song controls . <URL> You get a sheet overlay which seems to end at the bottom of the screen , but if you scroll this down ( drag up on the screen ) you find the controls for shuffle and repeat . <URL> <URL> Screenshots are from an iPhone 7 , but I 'd expect the controls to be positioned similarly on the Plus .
Page 27 of the September 2015 <URL> states that there is not a firewall on iOS . On other platforms , firewall software is needed to protect open communication ports against intrusion . Because iOS achieves a reduced attack surface by limiting listening ports and removing unnecessary network utilities such as telnet , shells , or a web server , no additional firewall software is needed on iOS devices .
I suggest searching for podcasts on the iTunes web interface from within mobile Safari . Both Bing and Google accept a site parameter that will allow you to filter for a specific site . In thie case , you could search for a podcast and add the site : itunes.apple.com parameter at the end . Like this : this week in tech site : itunes.apple.com The search results in Safari should be easier to read . Each link should open in the iTunes app in your iPhone . Hope this helps .
The <URL> says that it has the same front panel ( i.e. same positions for the Home button , LCD , sensors and earpiece ) . Other sites have also confirmed that it 's the same layout as the CDMA iPhone 4 . It should work with any case made for the CDMA iPhone 4 , and some of the less precise GSM iPhone 4 cases ( i.e. ones with large cutouts around the buttons ) . It should also work with any Apple bumper purchased from January on , as those were designed to work with the GSM &amp; CDMA iPhone 4 . The 4S also has 4 symmetrically positioned black strips ( gaps between the antenna segments ) , 2 on each side , just like the CDMA 4 . It also has a GSM slot , which is pretty much the only distinguishing feature between the CDMA 4 and the 4S .
According to <URL> iOS 6 does n't make the iPhone 3GS any slower or more difficult to use than it was before , which should be good news to anyone who keeps theirs around as a secondary or backup phone -- indeed , it 's pleasantly surprising how many of the refinements and improvements make their way down to Apple 's oldest-supported piece of iOS hardware . However , that hardware has been surpassed so thoroughly by other iOS and Android handsets at this point that it 's difficult to recommend it as a primary handset . You do n't have much to lose if you upgrade a 3GS to iOS 6 , but there 's a lot more to gain by investing in a newer device .
You can do this by sharing your MacBook Pro 's internet connection - typically called an ad-hoc network . You will need to connect your USB aircard , and then open System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing . ( <URL> ) Select USB from the drop down menu next to " Share your connection from : " . Then select the " Wifi " from the checkboxes below . Check the Internet Sharing option to the left , then join it with your iPhone . <URL> that you may find helpful in setting up an ad-hoc network . While you are using USB the steps <URL> should be very similar to your situation .
There is a way , Though a bit strange . If you choose to delete the podcast/file , you will get a Confirmation dialog with Delete/Cancel option . Slide with your finger horizontal over the file and it will give you an option to Delete the file . Choose Delete to show the second Confirmation dialog . There , you will be able to view the full name of the Podcast . Be CAREFUL not to choose Delete or you will loose the file . And also the full name of the podcast .
Other is a catch-all by taking the drive 's max capacity and subtracting the sum of all other counted file sizes . So , if your drive has corruption where many blocks are unavailable or lost , you will see large other " allocations " . If the other space remains the same after running disk utility to verify and/or repair the volume then you can assume it 's really files taking that space . The categorization comes from spotlight indexing , so you could search here how to rebuild that index if you suspect bad metadata leading to an incorrect storage report . The simplest way to rebuild the metadata ( spotlight ) index is to simply add your hard drive to the spotlight privacy list in system preferences and subsequently remove it . The built-in help should have a guide if you 're not sure how to refresh all spotlight data .
Apple has a nice iOS page up at <URL> In case it changes at a later date , here is the relevant text from the end of that page . This text above is straight from the footnote portion / small text at the bottom of the web page .
iTunes connect is shut down for the holidays . Just because there are new posting on appreviewtimes.com does n't necessarily mean the apps were just reviewed . Could be from the weekend .
I 've had that issue before , and it indeed seems to be a bug of sorts . As evidenced by the fact that one should n't have to hold their phone up to direct light , or manually adjust brightness on a frequent basis . I would recommend starting with a phone reboot - hold down the power and home button until you see the Apple logo . This may help the situation Next , you could also try turning off " Automatic Brightness " . Open the Settings app , tap " Brightness &amp; Wallpaper " , then switch " Auto-Brightness " off .
Live photos use the microphone to record sound as well as video when you take a picture . Look at the camera settings when you open the app to see whether video is going to happen ( or already be happening since it records video from before you press the shutter ) . There appears to be a bug ( that has n't been fixed yet as of iOS 9.3 ) on that hardware that makes iPhone 6S worse than others - it pauses even when you are aware of the video aspects and request a non-live photo and non-video recording setting .
From Wikipedia : <URL> Although they are not yet at the power levels to replace xenon flash devices in still cameras , LEDs ( specifically , high current flash LEDs ) have recently been used as flash sources in camera phones . LEDs are expected to approach the power levels of xenon in the near future and may replace built-in xenon flashes in still cameras . The major advantages of LEDs over xenon include low voltage operation , higher efficiency and extreme miniaturization . So , now that we know that we have a LED ( Light Emitting Diode ) in there , let 's see how much should that live ( according the the super-experts @ wikipedia ) : <URL> ( read all that for more info ) Short answer : " Typical lifetimes quoted are 25,000 to 100,000 hours but heat and current settings can extend or shorten this time significantly . " Now do you think your iPhone will last 25,000 hours ( worst case scenario for the LED ) ? That 's a little bit less than three years . It 's certainly possible for an iPhone to last much more than that ( I still use a 1s-gen iPhone ) , however , I highly doubt that you 're going to use it with the flash ON , for three years , non-stop . :)
end question
start question
Macbook Retina 15 " camera - hardware , firmware or software issue ?
The simplest way to confirm a hardware problem is to boot your machine using a different startup disk and testing the issue in question . To do so you would require an external HD or USB drive , with an OS installed on it , preferably Mac OS . Simply connect such external media to your machine via USB or Firewire and boot up the computer while holding down the ' Option ' key . Creating bootable USB : <URL> Changing your Startup Disk : <URL>
Windows According to <URL> : Windows 7 by default starts up at 800 x 600 on the Retina MBP , Windows 8 defaults to 1024 x 768 . This behavior is n't specific to this system , the GeForce GT 650M does n't have native driver support in either OS at this point and these are the defaults for the standard VGA driver in both cases . Windows 7 wo n't expose any resolutions higher than 1600 x 1200 without an actual NVIDIA driver , while Windows 8 will let you select the full 2880 x 1800 panel resolution . This is a report about Windows via bootcamp . I do n't know how this differs from Windows being used in a virtual machine . It would probably also depend on the options that the VM software offers . Linux When using the NVIDIA drivers on Linux ( and on Windows too ) you can select the full native panel resolution ( 2880x1800 ) . You can also select any of a number of scaled resolutions which do n't look as sharp . In general , running at native resolution is actually less of a problem for Linux than it is in Windows and OS X because of the way it 's designed . There are no blurry fonts on 3rd party apps like on OS X and it is easier to set your DPI so that apps are scaled properly than on Windows ( it is set automatically in Linux ) .
The Other World Computing Blog <URL> the new MacBook Pro 15 " with Retina Display Can Run 3 External Displays : image source : <URL> These resolutions were used : Retina on laptop @ " best for Retina " iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort LG monitor @ 1920 x 1200 via HDMI Quote from the <URL> : This makes the Retina MacBook Pro the first Mac -- other than a tower-based workstation like the Mac Pro -- to natively power four displays simultaneously .
Just managed to upgrade my Late 2012 Retina Macbook Pro using a Samsung mSATA 512GB SSD and an 7 +17 pin adapter like this one : <URL> WORKS ! PS . Use " sudo trimforce enable " in the Terminal , to get trim and full speed . PS1 . Newer Retina Macbook Pros use the 18 +8 pin adapter like this one ( do n't know if they fit , late-2012 Retinas have a lot of room unlike the newer models ) : <URL>
I have read it somewhere before ( <URL> ) that on some heavy loads ( especially GPU loads ) , 2011 MacBook Pro charger may not supply enough charge . There are no official confirmations , though , as far as I know . Please check , however , that the " 0:09 " minutes are referred to the remaining time and not the " remaining time until fully charged " . I suppose it is the latter . I may also point out ( but only as a last thought ) that if you keep your Mac always under charge , the battery may stop charging at certain times to preserve lifetime .
There is no hardware virtualization to turn on or off like on Wintel PCs . That switch and many other BIOS switches are there because ( at least in part ) the hardware manufacturers do n't make the hardware AND software , like Apple does . It is always on in any Mac that has a processor that supports virtualization . Pretty much any Mac in the last several years does so you are good to go with this one .
UPDATE : The problem was due to broken filesystem permissions which were preventing the system from applying the update . Once the permissions have been fixed using Disk Utility , the update took place like a sweet .
I called Apple to find out , and they confirmed that it is not user-upgradeable : the tech explained that they used the same process they used for the MacBook Air to save space : there are no sticks of RAM , and the RAM has been soldered directly onto the main board . As <URL> , this is now confirmed <URL> before purchase : Please note that the memory is built into the computer , so if you think you may need more memory in the future , it is important to upgrade at the time of purchase . So if you were thinking you might want the 16GB RAM in the future , you 'd want to choose it when you order the MacBook Pro , as you wo n't be able to upgrade later .
Yes this is normal , Intel lists a " Thermal Junction " for the <URL> at 105 Degrees Celsius . This CPU information is referenced from details in EveryMacs ' <URL> . Modern CPUs pretty much detect when there is a temperature problem and will shutdown if it detects that its overheating . Large Compiling tasks can take the CPU to its limits , which is causing your MacBook Pro to have to dissipate way more heat that it does normally , hence why its hot and blaring its fans to keep it from overheating . This happens pretty much across the board with most Apple laptops when you push the CPU 's to 100 % for an extended period of time . Ear plugs , a laptop stand , headphones , or a <URL> desktop ( with whisper quiet fans ) may be good accessories if you plan on compiling a lot of software packages on a regular basis .
Generally speaking there 's nothing you have to do except launch the application that supports your hardware . If you add a new network device , it is immediately listed the next time you open the Network preference pane in System Preferences . If you add a new sound device , is it immediately listed in the Sound preference pane in System Preferences . ( You can also Option + Click the volume icon in your menu bar within seconds of plugging your device in and see it in the list . ) You do n't need to " add new hardware " to use it . If it is compatible , it generally just shows up .
HTML is a simple markup language and does n't , arguably , require an IDE like Xcode . I 'd recommend anyone starting to learn HTML ( and related web tools like CSS and JavaScript ) to start with a simple text editor . Learn your skills manually before relying on an app to speed up the process . Most of the time you 'll find you can do a lot faster with a really good text editor than an all-in-one IDE . For something free on Mac try <URL> . To be honest there are n't that many amazing and free editors/IDEs for websites on Mac OS . For some money there are a lot of amazing tools such as <URL> , <URL> and <URL> to name a few . If you just need it for a short time it 's not likely worth it however all of them currently provide some form of trial period . Edit : Changed scripting language to markup language . Not sure what I was thinking .
It actually does n't matter . If you install Lion you can use the Time Machine backup as the source for restoring all data through Migration Assistant . It works exactly the same as if you put your old machine into target disk mode and use it as a drive for Migration Assistant . ( I was really surprised to find this out a couple of days ago when shuffling hard drives - 3 bad SSDs in a row , long story - and I was not allowed to select Time Machine to restore from because it was too large for the 240GB SSD , after using a 750GB spinning disk for a while - even though I had carefully excluded enough data to be sure it would fit . Then when Migration Assistant came up it allowed me to use the Time Machine drive to restore all the data I wanted anyway - all 90GB of it . All 's well now , and this unexpected feature of Time Machine saved me some time . )
According to the <URL> , <URL> , Page 20 , the maximum allowed temperature of all the new i3 , i5 , i7 cpus is 105 Celsius degrees so you are approaching the limit . However all cpus are designed in a way that they will send a signal to the motherboard in case the cpu is overheating to either shut-down the pc completely or dramatically reduce the performance ( by lowering the clock-speed ) . Studying <URL> review of the latest MacBook Retina it 's clearly visible that the Macbook pro retina automatically reduces the performance in case of really high temperature over a longer period of time . According to them while running various benchmarks in Half-Life 2 the performance of the retina model dropped by about 5 % compared to the old model which dropped by about 20 % ) . I think you do n't need to worry to much about the temperature . If the cpu is reaching its thermal limit it will automatically try to do something about it . You may even think about investing in a cooling pad as the enclosure of the mac is made out of aluminium , it acts a a massive heat-sink and theoretically you could lower the temperature by using a cool-pad for laptops and fit it underneath .
Yup , apparently it is missing and you have to install <URL> to get it .
It is neither wrong , nor correct :) The drive uses a chip inside to do the encryption and everything depends on how powerful the chip is . Most likely Mac CPU will be more powerful . Also if you connect over network or through USB2 , encryption speed will not matter much because the transfer will be much slower than the encryption . I would not bother with hardware-encrypted drives and just use Mac encryption . Why pay more for hardware encryption if you can do it with nearly the same speed on a Mac and you have other speed limiting factors ?
The explanation on the Preferences panel is wrong and confusing . The Retina display does n't actually run at 1280x800 . Instead it just " looks like " it does . A 13.3 inch screen running at 96dpi ( pixels ( dots ) per inch ) has a resolution of about 1280x800 and the 8pt font and other on screen elements are big enough for the eye to see . When you run a 13.3 at retina resolutions 2560x1800 the fonts are much much smaller and hard to look at , so OS X makes them as big as they were at 1280x800 but more detailed . You get to see the same thing as one would at 1280x800 but at much greater detail 226dpi instead of 96dpi . Resolution is just a big " carpet " of dots , you have a fixed amount of them and you can make the dots bigger to cover more area . For example a 3840x2160 4K TV that is 48 inches wide diagonally has about 90 pixels per inch comparable to a normal desktop monitor . A 15 inch Retina Macbook Pro has 2800x1800 ( a little less than the 4k tv ) but they are packed smaller and closer together on a much smaller surface area , 15 inch wide instead of 48 .
Automatically Through Software Update It is likely that OS X will automatically prompt you to download and install any recommended firmware update . This happens as part of OS X 's software update process . See <URL> for the specific update steps on older Macs : Learn how to locate , download , and apply a firmware update to an Intel-based Mac computer . All about the <URL> . Manually via the Apple Support Site Alternatively , you can <URL> on the Apple Support site . For example , this update appeared soon after the Mac Pro1 .1 was released in 2006 : <URL> : The SMC Firmware Update adjusts fan behavior in the Mac Pro . Download and run the updater . The updater will check and prompt you if it is required . These firmware updates are effectively the same as a PC BIOS . As a Mac user , there is nothing to manage or update at the BIOS level ; it is controlled by Apple .
I 'm fairly certain the green light is hard-wired to the camera , there 's no way to activate the camera without activating the light , precisely for privacy reasons . If you 're really concerned about it , you can always just use a piece of electrical tape to cover the camera ( or fold a piece of cardboard over the top of the lid for a non-sticky solution ) . Frankly I would n't worry too much about the risk of malware . That particular piece of malware ( <URL> ) was contained fairly quickly by Apple , it 's very unlikely that you could be infected by it now , unless you maintain an unpatched system . There have been a few OS X security issues lately ( such as <URL> ) , and they get a lot of press , but the actual amount of harmful software out there for a Mac is extremely low . My advice is to keep your system up to date and avoid downloading files from questionable sources . But other than that , do n't worry too much , unless you have a highly sensitive job ( in which case there should be other people whose job it is to worry about it ) .
Yes , retina optimized apps will typically ship with both versions of graphics . You can easily have a look at the retina graphic files yourself by viewing the package contents of the app . They should be located in AppName.app / Contents/Resources . At least for the Apple ones , the retina versions seem to have ' @ 2x ' appended to their base name , for example badge-info-N@2x.tiff is the retina version of badge-info-N . tiff . While you probably could delete these files , it probably is n't a good idea as it will break the code signing , which in it 's turns makes KeyChain access impossible without signing the code again , for example . As to how much overhead or ' burden ' the retina graphics are , I had a quick look at iPhoto.app ( I do n't have iMovie installed ) . In total , the retina graphics seems to add about 10 % to the total app size ( or in iPhoto 's case , about 124MB ) . I think for a typical user , when most apps are retina-optimized ( not sure when/if that will happen ) , this will not amount to more than 1GB in total .
You should get a mini DisplayPort to VGA adapter ( sometimes referred to as a Thunderbolt to VGA adapter , but it 's the same thing ) . Apple <URL> , but they can be had elsewhere for less , including at my personal favourite , <URL> . You could do HDMI to VGA , but it would require a ( typically bulky ) active adapter . There are some HDMI to VGA adapters that are n't active , but they rely on graphics card support that Macs do n't have . The DisplayPort to VGA adapters are technically active adapters , but for whatever reason they seem to be much more compact than HDMI to VGA ones . There are USB based display adapters , and some of them have VGA output , but I 'd only recommend them for situations where other outputs are n't available . They 're essentially a USB connected graphics card , which means that performance is lacking , and it takes up CPU and memory resources that the built-in outputs do n't . Useful for some situations , but in your case I 'd stay away .
end question
start question
Is it OK to rename an application ?
Generally , it does not affect , but there are some apps that do n't properly work when you do it . The only way to know is trying it . In the worst case , you can revert the changes without issues . About accessing keychain , same thing , usually you wo n't have problems . I have n't tested auto-update . I usually did it with old versions of apps , to have both old and new ones .
<URL> find any application or file this app will learn and prioritize your searches system commands and extended features ( google search , bitly ... ) you can get more powerful features when purchasing the <URL> <URL> find any application or file this app will learn and prioritize your searches lots of free <URL> with extend the functionalities move files execute bash commands ... Spotlight ( built-in ) ... which is part of the OS and be triggered using & #x 2318 ; + space ( default shortcut ) .
This is the downloaded disk image . Many applications downloaded from the internet will come as an internet ready disk image , which means that it mounts and opens when the downloaded file is opened . A disk image is a mountable image of any volume . Disk images can be images of physical volumes or virtual disks . Like a zip , dmg disk images can be compressed ( and usuall are , especially internet ready disk images such as the disk images used to install software from the internet ) or can be read/write like an actual disk . They are mounted in the same mount point as physical disks , but are virtual . When unmounting , the disk is ejected and the mount point deleted like a physical disk . As the disk image is a disk , it will be shown on the desktop if you have the relevant option selected in Finder preferences : Copy the app to your / Applications folder ( or wherever else you desire ) then eject the disk image by right-clicking and selecting Eject ( or through Finder ) . The mounted disk image is the . dmg that you downloaded , therefore can be deleted by deleting this disk image after unmounting .
Kenny , To your first question , yes , you can mix memory sizes . To your second question , 4GB of matching memory will be faster than unmatched memory , but 8GB of unmatched memory will be faster than 4GB of matched memory . At some point you stop getting gains from more memory , but that depends on what you 're doing .
I do not know if there is such a possibility to have this as a default behavior but you could simply move the application to your user application directory or anywhere else . Finder by default creates an alias when you drag an application out of the folder . However , if you hold down the " Command " key while dragging your applications , they will move to wherever you drag them . If you want to go a geekier route , you can also use Terminal and execute this command : After promting for your login password everything is fine . Be sure to be administrator of your system . This certainly works for me . I can use the application as usual and it receives all updates via the Mac App Store .
A workaround is to make an alias of the app , drag the alias to Dock and then change the icon for the alias ie . not for the actual app . Downside is that you get a small alias -- arrow added to the lower -- left corner to the icon . Make an alias Drag the alias to the Dock Change the icon like you would for any Finder item . In the following screenshot we have copied the icon of Chess app and pasted it to the newly -- made alias of Automator . ( NB , make sure you first copy the icon and then paste it ; the screenshot accidentally is showing the opposite way . )
Yes you can do it with an internal partition or in an external HDD , just one partition , USB , DVD , all is more or less the same , I have to say that this is one of the best things on the Mac , so easy to backup and restore systems . NOTICE : back up all your data , and make sure the partition that you are going to use is the correct one , this will destroy all information in that partition Open Disk utility , and click the desired partition on the left column . Go to the " restore " tab At the source , select the dmg file containing the installer ( you may need to scan the image first , to do that go to the images menu item and select " Scan image for restore " ) . At the destination , drag the partition that you would like to use . Press Restore ( erase everything on , at least I prefer it that way ) . THIS DESTROYS ALL INFO IN THAT PARTITION . If all went well , it should copy all info into the partition Go to system preferences and select startup disk , select the partition that you restored the installer into Restart . If all went well , you should be seeing the installer running from your partition , just select the destination for the new installation and all should be ok . If for some reason the restore did n't work , you may need to mount the installer image and use that " virtual " disk as the source and not the actual image , I 've had some trouble in the past and this sorted my problem .
The Yosemite Installer package contains all the divers for all supported models . You are good to go for multiple uses on multiple systems .
No , there is no way to do that in the current build . Well , sort of . An example is if you have iTunes open in fullscreen in a separate desktop , and go to mission control , the desktop will be called iTunes .
Your assumption is correct . Your iPhone has an intelligent charge controller on-board and this controller will only draw as much as it needs . Sure , the iPad power supply can supply twice as much power as the iPhone needs , but it should not be dangerous by any means . I do n't know if there is an " official " word on this , but I would be genuinely surprised that it voids your warranty . Apple engineers are very smart and know that users will interchange powersupplies if they recognize that the connectors are physically compatible ( as is the case here . ) Long story , short : you should be fine .
Dsniff links its programs in to instead of . <URL> is for more sysadmin-oriented stuff and is n't on the path for non-root accounts . Most other Homebrew formulae do n't link there . Dsniff will even warn you about this during the installation . So , add to your path in the same place that you add , probably in , and you 'll pick up dsniff . In general , when you run in to things like this , and you 're not sure where the files went , you can use to search for them . For Homebrew , they 'll always be somewhere under / usr/local , if they 're anywhere .
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
Your Macbook can have as much as 3GB of RAM . Check it first . Buy an Optical Disk Drive to HDD adaptor on ebay ( 9.5 mm PATA to SATA variant ) . Put you HDD there . Crucial is good . 64GB is enough for me , SATA150 and probably you . Small read/writes are same between different sizes and you will not get those faster linear RW anyway -- why pay more when you can have platters to store those big files ? Still it 's wiser to sell your Macbook as is and buy anything unibody ( used ) for a bit more -- you 'll get better graphics to help with flash ( I have such a notebook and know how pathetically slow it becomes when flash is on ) . And then max that unibody Macbook with RAM ( which is DDR3 and cheaper ) and SSD .
It 'll probably be fine . If it 's always plugged in , you wo n't notice any battery decay because the device will always be charged ( or pulling off mains power ) when you need it . Any battery decay will probably take long enough that it 'll be time to buy a new iPod by the time you notice anything severe . The easiest way to mitigate this I can think of is to unplug the device over the weekend , remove it from the car , and let it discharge on its own . Then , on Monday , plug it back in and go . This has the added advantage that it 's not subjected to the temperature extremes the interior of a car can see over a period of extended non-use .
OSX is setup to have a window take focus , this usually requires a Window to show , this is being in the foreground . The application that this window belongs to is the process that receives and interprets keystrokes ( strictly <URL> ) ( after the system global ones are dealt with ) Thus when you quit an application the OS has to choose an Application to put in the foreground . I ca n't find the overall description in one document so this is based on development experience . If someone could find the correct overview this would help .
It <URL> the AppleScript is run within Quicksilver 's process ( depending on how you run it ) . If that 's the case , you 'd need to relaunch Quicksilver . If it 's not completely frozen , you can do this quickly with ⌃ ⌘ Q . It might also be possible to set some kind of timeout in the script to prevent it from hanging indefinitely .
Each app is placed in it 's own sandbox which limits the app 's access to files etc. . More info here : <URL>
More reading on <URL> indicates that the warranties are not honored internationally for iPads and iPhones . If you buy somewhere and it breaks , you will likely have to send it back to the country of purchase . Apparently , this is because most countries have their own warranty laws .
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
You will need to renew your dev certificate and your provisions to upload apps from Xcode to stock iOS devices .
end question
start question
Finder not showing correct free space ?
Finder does not take into account Time Machine 's Local Snapshots . The storage space of these local snapshots will be given to files if necessary and therefore the space is not actually being consumed . Daisy Disk sees these files though and takes them into account when calculating the free space . You can disable local snapshots by turning off Time Machine completely , or to retain Time Machine functionality without local snapshots you can run the following command :
It appears that everyone that owns an older copy of iWork for iOS gets a free upgrade whether or not your version came from a retail CD or the Mac App Store . If you do n't already own iWork - you will have to pay for either a new Mac or the apps piecemeal on the App Store . The above summary is my understanding of this MacWorld article that includes calls with Apple Press relations and an " on-the-record " confirmation that all owners of iWork should get free upgrades despite some glitches in the initial roll out today . <URL>
Yes you can delete anything in the Cache folder . There 's no unsaved things . Just cached data . Like renderinged things in the case of After Effects . In video editing software you can often define maximum cache size .
I 've known it happen if memory was being paged heavily , or if a drive was particularly full . F5 has no effect on a Mac , btw , it 's a Windows command . The only real equivalent - to a system that really ought to never need to be refreshed under normal circumstances - is to switch view style ... ... from list to column then back again , for instance ... Cmd ⌘ 3 then Cmd ⌘ 2
Go into the folder and choose the view you want the folder to display as . Press cmd + J , then check the " Always open in [ type ] view " box at the top of the small window and make sure that the " Browse in [ type ] view " option is unchecked . Close that window . Now the Finder should switch the view to the one you chose whenever you enter that folder .
You can hide the tab bar by going to View → Hide Tab Bar .
The recording is HD ( 720p ) up to 30 frames per second with audio - but since both the audio and video are compressed using lossy algorithms , you might sometimes get significantly storage depending on the source . In practice the <URL> with the same HD ( 720p ) up to 30 frames per second - but the few recording I 've seen from the iPod touch have data rates about half as high ( which use about half the space ) . My iPhone usually records between 2 and 10 Mbit/s . The lower end is for static , mostly black images and if things are moving or detailed , you get to the higher end of the range pretty easily . You can make some test recordings and open them in QuickTime Player where the inspector window will show you the details for the video you are shooting . A little pen and paper or a spreadsheet will convince you of how much time you can expect to capture before your device runs out of space .
If these applications offer the ability to Hide the Dock Item , and live only in the Menu Bar , then they will not show up in the Command + Tab switcher list . Review the preferences within each application to see if this feature is supported . Last I knew , there were no stable solutions for hiding Dock Icons without adverse application affects . I have numerous applications that live in the Menu Bar only , and most have an option to show it if necessary : Alfred , Sparrow , iMenuMeters , Divvy , Last.fm , Flux , Little Snitch , and Tunnelblick .
As a workaround , you can download it directly from <URL> if you have a ( free or paid ) account . Update : At one time the included link above would take one directly to Downloads for Apple Developers after signing in , however as time goes by things change . So once logged into your Developer account add downloads to the address in the address bar so it shows as <URL> and then press enter . You should then be at the Downloads for Apple Developers section as shown in the cropped clip below . <URL>
You can do that with Network locations . You can defined for example two profiles : work ( fixed IP ) and home ( DHCP ) . As you said chancing the location from is tedious . However you can do the same from the menu : > .
Answer found <URL> . Open a terminal , and move the saved settings from Finder into a backup folder just in case : Then , you can Force Quit Finder as usual using Command + Option + Esc , or use this handy terminal command : Then , assuming everything looks good , you can delete the folder which has appeared on your desktop .
Shift-Space Space goes down a page , and Shift-Space is the opposite , scrolling up one page .
Carefully move the pointer to the left side of the finder window border till the cursor changes to arrow pointing to the right . ↦ Hold and Drag to the right . If that did not work you need to restore the finders preferences . In terminal run and Restart .
Spotlight can , if you just search for " - kind : folder " . It also shows the files . It looks like a bug to me , but it works . Found <URL> .
Menu > About this Mac Then the Storage tab For cleanup , <URL> exists for Mac ; there 's also <URL> &amp; a whole raft of others . I would n't particularly recommend any of them , as they 've all been known to throw out the wrong bit , just like on Windows .
You can try : <URL> ( free one ) <URL> ( paid one )
In Finder - View > Show View Options or Cmd ⌘ J Uncheck " use relative dates "
Anything on your iPhone that Apple sells in its stores ( that is , any music , apps , movies , books , etc. you 've purchased and are still available ) will be backed up and wo n't count towards the 5GB total . That does n't include , obviously , app data , your photos and videos , SMS and the like ( from <URL> ) : What is backed up You get unlimited free storage for : Purchased music , movies , TV shows , apps , and books ( ... ) You get 5 GB of free iCloud storage for : Photos and videos in the Camera Roll Device settings ( for example : Phone Favorites , Wallpaper , and Mail , Contacts , Calendar accounts ) App data Home screen and app organization Messages ( iMessage , SMS , and MMS ) Ringtones Visual Voicemails There are some caveats to consider when using iCloud Backup , though : as already mentioned , purchases no longer available in the iTunes Store , App Store or iBookstore may not be restored backup of purchased music is not available in all countries backups of purchased movies and TV shows are U.S. only music , movies , and TV shows that you did not purchase from the iTunes Store are not included any podcasts , audio books or photos that you originally synced from your computer are excluded I warmly recommend that you read <URL> for more information on iTunes and iCloud backups and which may the right choice for you . If the size of your backup exceeds the 5 GB free storage limit , an alternative to purchasing additional storage is to restrict which app data will be backed up . You can do that in Settings > iCloud > Storage &amp; Backup > Manage Storage .
Most of the difference was marked probably memory marked as inactive . Any app can still use this memory , so it 's not marked as used by some process . For more info about inactive memory , see <URL> . Wired memory usually makes up a much smaller portion . This is memory used by the OS ; it is n't available to your apps . For more info , see the Apple article <URL> .
Yes - you can use Automator to make a service for Finder ( or all applications ) to perform rotation of images . Then you can assign a keyboard shortcut to that action . I 'm not aware of quicklook plug-in that rotate , but that 's something that might exist . Modifying finder 's shortcut bar might be the least likely way to activate things , but hopefully an Automator service ( or app / droplet ) will do .
end question
start question
What is wrong with the content protection of AirPlay that some applications prevent its use ?
Airplay is n't a protected transfer mechanism , in the same way that playing ( for example ) a Blu Ray disc over a HDMI connection that supports HDCP . High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection ( HDCP ; commonly , though incorrectly , referred to as High-Definition Copy ( right ) Protection ) is a form of digital copy protection developed by Intel Corporation to prevent copying of digital audio and video content as it travels across connections . These connections include popular ones like DisplayPort ( DP ) , Digital Visual Interface ( DVI ) , and High-Definition Multimedia Interface ( HDMI ) The system is meant to stop HDCP-encrypted content from being played on devices that do not support HDCP or which have been modified to copy HDCP content . Before sending data , a transmitting device checks that the receiver is authorized to receive it . If so , the transmitter encrypts the data to prevent eavesdropping as it flows to the receiver . That 's pretty technical , but in short ( and this is not particular a developer choice , but the content owners choice ) if they can not guarantee that the content is fully secure end to end , they will not allow it to be transmitted . Airplay isn ; t fully secure to the same degree as the above , and so many contents owners will not agree to it 's use .
Yes . Airplay is really a technology platform that allows for streaming media on a local network . It is n't concerned with the type of device that is producing the media or consuming it . To start with , support may be limited and may not come from Apple . However , certainly that will change with demand . For example : There is an iOS app called <URL> which allows streaming of media to an iPhone/iPod/iPad . There is a Mac proof-of-concept app also called <URL> which allows streaming of media to a Mac .
AirDrop works outside of whatever WiFi networks are around and does n't need a base station . It is like a mesh network where all the devices just talk between each other . If nothing else is " sharing " the road - you get the full speed . The further away you are or the more interference , the slower it gets . AirDrop will work by passing the data from Mac to Mac so it will get the file there ( although slower ) if it has to jump once or twice along the way . That being said , for two close machines , the transfer speed should be the max wireless speed between your two machines . Hard drives are almost always faster reading and writing than WiFi speeds , so the radio link is generally the slowest . However , all of that is just theoretical . You can check your actual speed by opening Applications > Utilities > Activity Monitor Click the Network tab on the bottom and you should see stats about how fast the data is being sent and received . Detach from WiFi base stations to let AirDrop get all the hardware if you want the fastest transfers - leave it on if you need internet while dropping that large file .
There are a few ways to get a single large DV file imported from tape , depending on whether your constraint is budget or time : 1 ) <URL> has a recording mode that can see DV devices . Yes , Apple still charges $ 29.99 for it , but the interface is simple and lets you record a long , single file . Just make sure the capture format in the app 's preferences is set to ' Device Native ' or something along those lines ( I believe it wants to transcode to MPEG-4 by default ) . 2 ) <URL> was a free sample application provided by Apple to developers to demonstrate video capture frameworks . The app seems to be gone from Apple 's site but a <URL> . This app lets you add a DV video/audio source , configure its capture format , and record as long as you need to . I still use this app on a regular basis . 3 ) A final option is to script the standard QuickTime 7 player via AppleScript to open a video capture window , which it will allow you to do even if you have n't purchased Pro . Unfortunately , I do n't have the original source code for this script , so you would have to open up AppleScript Editor and QT7 's dictionary and work it out through trial and error . Any of these recording approaches will yield a . dv file ( or a DV file in a . mov container ) , either of which can be taken in by iDVD , a simpler DVD app like <URL> , or by Handbrake if you wish to transcode to MPEG-4 / H. 264 .
It really depends on the application , so there is no correct a ) or b ) solution that would encompass all your apps . Many Mac apps are ' installed ' by the simple expedient of copying the app from a disk image to the Applications folder . So long as your new install uses the same Apple ID as your old &amp; / or you have any required activation keys , all is good . The issue arises with apps that needed to run as an Installer , asking permissions to modify System items , install background processes etc. . For those you will need to correctly re-install . I guess empirically , the ' suck it &amp; see ' method might be the simplest ... ... copy the Applications folder across , see which ones work ... [ avoid copying any default Apple Apps ]
There is no official certification . There are , though , non-Apple-official courses which are highly reputed , such as <URL> , for instance .
I see this happen somewhat often in our office environment where Outlook 2011 is connected to our Exchange server . Typically a spotlight re-index will do the trick , either using the method you tried or by adding the HD to Spotlight 's privacy pane , then removing it a few minutes later . Sometimes I have to go a step further &amp; remove preference files . spotlight.plist , outlook.plist , etc. . . Beyond that I will sometimes be forced to rebuild the Outlook identity using the Microsoft Database Utility ( hold opt while opening Outlook ) . Hope that helps ! ( Oddly it 's always 2 weeks here as well )
I do n't know of an effective solution . One approach could be trying to process the iTunes Library metadata files to see if you can extract the raw filenames from that . There are some third party programs that read your iTunes Library . There 's an one open source library called <URL> that does that . In addition to this , I can think of a workaround requiring some work . Not sure if it will work for you : Remove all apps from iTunes without deleting the files . Re-add the complete folder . Re-delete all the apps you do n't want from iTunes , making sure you chose to delete them from disk as well .
This is n't directly a feature of Remote.app but of iTunes on the desktop , Remote.app just gives an UI for this . At this time , only iTunes running on Mac/Windows or other desktop apps like <URL> are able to distribute to multiple speakers at once .
To date , there are no 3rd party software implementations of AirPlay . The spec itself is fully patented ( though most of these patents relate to the hardware aspects of the system ) and is essentially a proprietary standard unique to Apple ( though several hardware vendors have announced hardware that will use the standard - XtremeMac , Denon ) . The current analysis of the protocol itself seems to indicate that it is a further evolution of the previous AirTunes protocol ( which itself was built on top of Bonjour ) , so you are likely to see software implementations appear after developers have had more time to experiment with the protocol .
Sit , my children , and let me tell you of the world and its tricks ... Scrolling You can basically always scroll inactive window content . I ca n't even think of a case where this is n't true . ( This also means that scroll-to-navigate works in Lion . ) Dragging In many cases , you can drag content from inactive windows/apps without focusing the app . For example , you can drag a file from Finder or a message from Mail . Clicking When you click a button that 's on a window , it usually " <URL> events " -- meaning your mouse-down will both focus the window and act as a mouse-down event on the button . Then when you let go , the button will carry out its duty . ( Also note : in the case of the close/minimize/zoom widgets , you can actually click them without focusing the window . ) ( Second aside : in toolbars , it 's not uncommon to disable some buttons while they 're inactive , so you do n't accidentally click them -- take Mail 's delete button , for instance . However , this functionality is slightly broken in Lion , because if you start clicking ( so the window focuses ) and then drag , you can actually still activate the button . ) However , this mostly only works for buttons . As you 've noticed , when you try to click a link ( or select text , or another similar action ) , you have to focus the window first by clicking , and only then can you interact with the content . The Great Workaround ( or the rule of thumb , as you say ; hehe ) To get to the point : In most cases , when you hold down ⌘ Command , you can interact with inactive window content . You can hold down ⌘ and select ( and even drag ) text in the background , drag things around ( including scrollbars ! ) , click buttons , and more , without activating the window . " But wait ! " I hear you say . " Holding down ⌘ opens links in a new tab ! " Ay , there 's the rub : When you hold down ⌘ and click a link in Safari or Chrome , it will work without activating the window ... but the link will open in a new tab . And to my knowledge there 's no Great Workaround for that , unless you want to disable ⌘ - clicking in your browser . There you have the facts -- make the workflow you will of them ! An update , quoting some content from Apple 's <URL> ( this is just for reference , not to prove a point ) : Avoid providing click-through for an item or action whose result might be dangerous or undesirable . Specifically , avoid enabling click-through for an item that : Performs a potentially harmful action that users ca n't cancel ( for example , the Delete button in Mail ) Performs an action that is difficult or impossible to cancel ( such as the Send button in Mail ) Dismisses a dialog without telling the user what action was taken ( for example , the Save button in a Save dialog that overwrites an existing file and automatically dismisses the dialog ) Removes the user from the current context ( for example , selecting a new item in a Finder column that changes the target of the Finder window ) Clicking in any one of these situations should cause the window that contains the item to be brought forward , but no other action to be taken . In general , it 's safe to provide click-through for an item that asks the user for confirmation before executing , even if the command ultimately results in destruction of data . For example , you can provide click-through for a delete button if you also make sure to give users the opportunity to cancel or confirm the action before it proceeds . Think twice before supporting click-through for items that do n't provide confirmation feedback . Specifically , consider how dangerous the action might be , and determine how difficult it will be for the user to undo the action after it 's performed . For example , the Mail Delete button does not provide click-through because it deletes a message without asking for confirmation , which is a potentially harmful action that can be difficult to undo . On the other hand , click-through for the New button in Mail is fine because its resulting action is not harmful and is easy to undo . Ensure that items that do not support click-through appear disabled when their window is inactive . The disabled appearance helps users understand that these controls are unavailable . For example , the delete and mark as junk buttons in the inactive Mail window shown below do not support click-through .
Yes , it will work as long as both the MacBook Air and the Denon receiver are on the same network segment . Your Air will need either the USB or Thunderbolt adapter to connect to ethernet ( the latter provides Gigabit speed as well as supports jumbo packets ) directly . You can have many iOS devices and the Air also connect over a wireless bridge and they will see the receiver that is connected via ethernet to the main network switch .
This directory is used to temporarily store attachments you open from Mail.app . They should be deleted automatically when you close the attachment . However , if you open an attachment , edit it and save it , then ( in my experience at least ) the attachment will tend to remain in that folder . Not all apps cause this ( e.g. some Apple apps ask you to duplicate the attachment ) , but some do ( MS Office seems to be a culprit for me ) . You can certainly delete these files manually now , although you might want to check you have n't accidentally saved something important there .
The current version ( iTunes 10 ) will run on a PowerPC machine but it has some small limitations ( primarily it can not play High Definition video from the iTunes Store ) System Requirements : Mac computer with an Intel , PowerPC G5 or G4 processor Intel , PowerPC G5 or 1.0 GHz PowerPC G4 or faster processor is required to play Standard Definition video from the iTunes Store 2.0 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo or faster processor is required to play HD video , an iTunes LP , or iTunes Extras from the iTunes Store Mac OS X version 10.5 or later <URL> ( iTunes Download Page )
Stub applications are smaller apps that do work for larger , more complex apps . For example , an app can request information from a stub app concurrently with a main process that the original app is running . Then , the stub app can return information back to the main process that initiated the stub binary .
Yes , it is possible using the following Terminal command : This adds a stack to the right end of the Dock ( before the Trash ) that lists your recently-used apps . Upon right-clicking on the stack , you can choose from multiple recents lists , and change the style of the list , as well as remove it from the Dock . Running the above command multiple times will add multiple stacks to the Dock , which you can customise individually .
See my <URL> on whether you can actually use the RAM and how to check how much RAM your computer is using at the moment . It may be the case that you are n't even using what you currently have . With regard to the RAM voltages , I 'm not sure why they would be different apart from the sticks being slightly different designs . You would be best off matching the sticks you buy to whatever voltage your current RAM is though .
<URL> ( free , or $ 0.99 <URL> ) will prompt you to open a copied URL on launch . You tap " Okay " and it opens a new tab in the foreground containing the page . I have n't been able to find an iOS browser which automatically opens the URL on the clipboard with no user action .
Activity Monitor is a good starting point . At a minimum , you can determine whether your system is becoming CPU-bound when you start the large application . It can also show how system memory is being utilized and whether excessive swapping is taking place . An <URL> notes : Tip : Page outs occur when the Mac has to write information from RAM to the hard drive ( because RAM is full ) . Adding more RAM may reduce page outs . This <URL> has a reference to another good tool - the Shark utility from the Apple Developer Tool Suite : Shark from the Developer Tools suite ( CHUD ) provide even more powerful process inspection capabilities and organizes bottom-up and top-down trees of where your time goes for the entire space of function calls , and is even decent at explaining where the bottlenecks are , sometimes suggesting low-level optimizations . Apple 's <URL> notes : Shark is an advanced tool for sampling or tracing a single application or all running applications . Like Instruments , Shark provides a set of powerful analysis tools with an easy-to-use interface to help you gather performance data . Shark helps you isolate problems quickly by providing a rich set of data-mining features and is an indispensable tool for finding performance bottlenecks . It provides optimization tips and help with analyzing assembly-level operations . Because it traces operations down at the kernel-level of the system , Shark can also provide you with tremendous insight about the behavior of your application relative to the rest of the system . Among the types of operations you can perform in Shark are the following : Statistical sampling of your application over a period of time System-level tracing Malloc tracing Static analysis L2 Cache profiling Processor bandwidth analysis Java code analysis In addition to basic sampling , Shark also offers the windowed time facility feature for several of its sampling options . The windowed time facility tells Shark to record and process a finite buffer of the most recently acquired samples . This feature lets Shark record data continuously and for long periods of time in the background . You can then direct Shark to stop sampling only after something interesting occurs in your code and to display the samples related to that interesting behavior . Thus , you can use this feature to determine what part of your program 's execution is interesting after it occurs . For a quick example of how to use Shark , see " <URL> . " For detailed information about Shark , see <URL> . The page also lists a number of other tools in the developer tool suite that can be used to monitor your system 's performance and hopefully pin down any potential bottlenecks before you buy the second SSD .
There is one way that I personally know of , and that is using Rogue Amoeba 's <URL> ( $ 29 USD ) . How to send between two iOS devices is outlined in this <URL> ( from 2012 , but the principle is the same ) . Brief version of the article : You first install Airfoil on your computer , and make it act as an Airplay server . From the iOS device playing the audio source , you then use the normal iOS AirPlay controls to pass audio to your computer . You then download Airfoil Satellite from the App store to your second iOS device , and use that application to receive audio from your computer . You just need to assign the Satellite app as a " client " and it will stream audio as usual . If you are thinking of streaming audio from video sources via this method , then audio will obviously not be synced in real-time with video . I have however used it for playing video on my iPad and then " taking the audio with with me " on my iPhone . The example would be if I 'm watching a TV programme on iPad , and I want to go to the bathroom and continue listening ...
end question
start question
How to get OS X Server ( for OS X Mavericks ) for free ( as Mac or iOS Developer ) ?
<URL> states this clearly : To download OS X Server , developers should access the iOS or Mac developer portal to retrieve an App Store redemption code . If you have iOS development program go to : <URL> Scroll down Click Get download code Redeem the code Download your free version of OS X Server 3.0.3 This text is next to the button : OS X Server 3.0.3 Includes Xcode Server to enable continuous integration . Works with Xcode 5 to configure bots that automatically build and test your apps . Requires OS X Mavericks .
Here are some references . I do n't have any personal experience with them . <URL> , April 22 , 2010 <URL> . A note there indicates that it is not yet compiled for Lion . <URL>
Unless you 're planning on running an extremely heavy loaded ftp server ( which the mini wo n't be able to handle anyway ) the built in FTP Server should be enough . Pure-ftpd is a classic in the unix world and I 'm sure you can of course make that run under OSX , but it does n't have a " UI " , it 's all command line . ( But very easy to configure anyway ) .
You can use traditional unix tools to start monitoring now . The free space statistics can be generated with the command , but you might just set your warning levels on server app and rely on alerts to notify you when space fills . I ca n't imagine needing to track storage space more than once a day to graph the growth or manage things , but your needs might be quite different . I 'd say 15 minute ( 900 seconds for iostat ) snaps of io activity would be sufficient and hourly or daily disk space logs would be overkill for most servers . You would probably decrease the monitoring interval during an investigation / performance tuning period , but day in and day out these stats usually just chew up CPU and disk space and do n't really help you manage the server . Once you decide upon how often you want to capture the data , you can get more fancy with a wrapper to start and stop the script / cut and process the log files daily , etc. . . I would say you 're going to want to instead look at the tools you want for actually analyzing and acting on the data . For one server , you could probably get away with one free instance of <URL> running and just log the data to syslog . From there you can graph / extract to spreadsheet / act on the data in a very flexible manner . Also , you might look at <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . There is an excellent write up at <URL> by Charles Edge explaining the how and why you would use those tools to tame the logs and graph things . If you had that , sending the statistics to the system log might be a very easy way to solve your problem of monitoring IO on your server .
<URL> ( Free ) A great free FTP client . This is my go-to application . Anytime I need FTP access , I use Cyberduck . It 's not quite as lightweight as Fugu , but it adds a lot more functionality than Fugu . I also really like the Growl integration with Cyberduck . <URL> ( Free ) Awesome little FTP client . As I noted above , this is a lightweight FTP client . It is great for simple FTP transfers and browsing . I do like the dual panel navigation . EDIT : I forgot to add these . <URL> ( Free ) I have n't actually used Filezilla extensively , but from what I 've seen of it , I really like it . I downloaded it and played with it for a bit and I really like the tabbed connections . I also like the ability to jump to a path easily . <URL> ( Free , $ 29 Upgrade ) A free FTP/FTP-SSL client . I do n't usually use RBrowser because a $ 29 upgrade is necessary to unlock other protocols ( Local , FTP/SSL/TLS , SFTP-SSH ) . I do like the Site Manager . It 's a handy little thing to have . I searched and came up with some other free FTP clients : <URL> ( Free ) - Firefox extension The one downside I see is that this is for Firefox . The website does n't make it clear how it works with Firefox , so I assume it is an extension . <URL> ( Free ) This one relies on <URL> Since I do n't know anything about MacFUSE , I do n't know if this is good or bad . <URL> ( $ 34 ) By Panic I have never used Transmit before , but I have used Coda and I definitely would recommend anything from Panic . The only reason I have n't used this because of the $ 34 price tag . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , just found it when searching . <URL> ( $ 24 per user ) An amazing program with a long , long , long mac heritage . It 's way up there with Transmit by Panic and Interarchy as a file transfer program loved by long time Mac power users . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , but looks good from the screenshots . I really like the fact that it looks like Finder . I may have to give this one a try . <URL> ( Free ) Just searching around and found yet another one ... It looks pretty nice , except it 's no longer supported . However , you can still download it .
Would the Windows Latin American layout mentioned in this article meet your needs ? <URL>
Mac OS X Reference Library <URL> states : CrashReporter performs two useful actions : When a program crashes , CrashReporter will record a crash log ( typically into ~ / Library/Logs/CrashReporter / ) , and inform the user by logging a message to the system logging facility . In addition , if the program that crashed is running as a logged in GUI user , CrashReporter will present the user with a dialog asking them whether they want to submit a bug report to Apple ( see Figure 1 ) . If the user clicks the Report button , CrashReporter displays another dialog that shows the details of the report ( see Figure 2 ) and allows them to comment it before submission . And not much further along , states : In this technote I explain how to interpret crash logs that you have obtained from end users . I believe this implies that the information is not automatically shared with the developer . The developer needs to " obtain " the crash logs from the end users ' ~ / Library/Logs/CrashReporter / folder .
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
<URL> DB Browser for SQLite is a light GUI editor for SQLite databases , built on top of Qt . The main goal of the project is to allow non-technical users to create , modify and edit SQLite databases using a set of wizards and a spreadsheet-like interface .
That 's pretty normal to see only the files for windows , when you are mounting the ISO image on a windows ! Even if you have inserted a MAC OS Installation DVD ( physical ) into tray and openned it in a windows machine , you would have seen only the Windows files and not the MAC files .
Automator You can use OS X 's Automator.app to quickly rename batches of images . The Actions you want are : Get Selected Finder Items Rename Finder Items Using this approach you can rename files , change the case , or append/remove specific parts of the original file name . You can create <URL> using Automator to make the whole process a single drag-and-drop . Alternatively you can <URL> to rename any image dropped into a folder . To learn more about using Automator , see Apple 's <URL> .
You have a couple of options using native Apple tools : Apple 's iMessage service utilizes free iCloud accounts . The service works with the Messages app ( both on Mountain Lion &amp; iOS ) . All messages are routed through Apple 's servers . Certificate-based encryption is used , but Apple does not document its exact nature or whether the messages get unencrypted on their servers . Here are some resources that might be helpful for looking more into this option : <URL> <URL> OS X Server also has a Messages service that can be turned on . This creates an in-house messaging service based on the Jabber/XMPP protocol . It is by definition secure , as it routes through your in-house server . It works natively with Messages and/or iChat on the Mac ( depending on OS X version ) and works with a variety of apps available on the App Store . This is the way to go if you are seriously concerned about security of your conversations .
You can not legally install OS X on VMware Workstation or Virtualbox and VMware has checks to prevent it . You have to hack it to get it to work and we do n't provide hacks here . You can read more about it <URL> .
Bluetooth MIDI in Yosemite ( and up ) Only You can not use Bluetooth MIDI in OS X Mavericks as it is not supported . Bluetooth MIDI was implemented in Yosemite . For more info , see <URL> but I see nothing that actually states it can not function on Mavericks . It is very unlikely that you are going to see a statement from Apple stating that an OS three versions back specifically does n't support a feature that was introduced in an OS that one version back . Features that are listed are what 's supported , not listed as to what 's not .
Yes , you can use the shortcut ⌥ option + ⌘ command + W.
I found a quicker way here : <URL> Basically , in ~ / Library/Mobile Documents/XXXXX ~ com ~ apple ~ mobilegarageband you 'll find the songs you 've saved in iCloud from GarageBand on iOS .
You have two options : You can use the command-line utility like so : Replace the with the number of levels you would like to recurse down into . Or , you can use <URL> . A GUI application that recursively downloads websites . You can also specify how far down to recurse with SiteSucker .
You could do it from the command line and/or write a script with the relevant services : And for ssh ( remote login ) for example Bringing them back up then with ( instead of stop )
Yes , Disk Utility can do this . Use then select your file . In the dialog that follows , select . Disk Utility will insist on saving the new ISO as a file , but it is really an ISO . You can rename it to in the Finder , if you like . At <URL> there are screen shots that walk through this process .
I never used stay but I am using Moom ( Apple store ) and pretty happy with it . It stores windows positions and has configurable hotkeys . There is no automatic settings for different displays but since you can assign hotkeys to configuration is not a big issue . It is very stable .
end question
start question
How can I apply a terminal script using ssh to all users ?
Use the command The command is So , after you SSH in as the admin , issue the command : That will set the preferences value for the particular user you are interested in without having to know their password . I personally checked this on OS X 10.11.4 using an account called " testguy " . I was able to SSH into the machine , set the preferences using the command you provided and verify that it was set by issuing the command : The response was ( true )
You can create a smart album with a condition on the camera model ( Camera model includes " iPhone " ) . It 's even possible to select the front or rear camera by adding a condition on the aperture . <URL> for details . I believe iPhoto '09 has this - the picture above is in iPhoto '11 and it works great there .
After the script has been created do the following : Find the source app with the icon you want Get Info of the source app ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the source app 's info window ( Not the one in the big Preview section at the bottom , if you have one of those ; the little one in the top-left corner . ) Copy it ( cmd-c ) Get Info of the automator script ( i.e. , the destination app ) ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the destination app 's info window Paste the icon from the clipboard ( cmd-v ) This method works for every files in Mac OS X . <URL>
All drives ( internal , external and networked ) get mounted in . You should see a folder there with the name of your USB drive as it appears on your desktop or in the Finder .
In the find file window , press Command-Shift-G . It 'll ask you what folder to navigate to . Enter " ~ / . ssh " and press return .
Launch the Terminal mail app with : You 'll see a list of all your messages . From the mail prompt , do And that should be it . Make sure do to the after the command , that saves the changes to disk .
You can use System Preferences/Energy Settings to define shutdown/restart times run to automatically reboot every night combine the second option with a cron/launchd job to reschedule the reboot daily ( or just call from cron/launchd ) You also can set one user to auto-login after reboot in System Preferences/Users &amp; Groups . But at least use a password-protected screen saver in this case , otherwise anybody can walk up to your computer after a reboot and start using it .
You can set Floating Window as the default behavior for all new stickies , but for existing stickies you will need to set this value one-by-one . To set the default : On one sticky ( any sticky ) , click Note from the menu bar and set " Floating Window " and/or " Translucent Window " to checked . Then select " Use as Default " from the same menu . All new stickies will have the new settings . You can turn these off on a sticky-by-sticky basis , or you can re-set the defaults using the these instructions .
You ca n't do this in Lion . <URL> if you want to be able to do this .
This AppleScript should restore all hidden windows . The first action unhides any hidden programs . The second action restarts the Dock , which has the effect of un-minimizing any windows minimized to the Dock . If you particularly want an Automator workflow , give it one action : Run AppleScript , and assign this AppleScript .
Use the command The command is So , after you SSH in as the admin , issue the command : That will set the preferences value for the particular user you are interested in without having to know their password . I personally checked this on OS X 10.11.4 using an account called " testguy " . I was able to SSH into the machine , set the preferences using the command you provided and verify that it was set by issuing the command : The response was ( true )
You can enable SSH from the Terminal with : ( note that you need to run this as an admin , and it 'll ask for your admin password , which wo n't echo as you type . )
CMD + n opens a new terminal window . CMD + t opens a new terminal tab . If you want to open something other than the default Terminal , use the techniques <URL> to open a pre-defined Terminal setup . You can also do CMD + n , i , Tab to bring up the Inspector , then use up/down arrows , or type the names , which lets you choose a pre-defined Terminal . If you want a setup hard-coded and not yet known to Terminal.app , follow <URL> .
<URL> Because Twitter offers to update your status via SMS , there is an easy workaround . Create new Contact Assign as first name : Twitter Assign phone number : 40404 ( this number is for United States residents ) Now you can update your Twitter status via Siri : Tell Twitter Hello World . Enable SMS for Twitter In order for the workaround to work , you need to enable the SMS feature for Twitter first . You can do this either online by editing your profile on twitter.com or send the text message to 40404 ( for US residents only ! ) . Then follow the instructions in the reply . However , the latter way is more complicated . International Twitter SMS codes You can get a full list of the world-wide twitter <URL> . Some countries or providers do not support short codes . You have to use <URL> instead . Fees may apply :
There are some good tutorials on this on Youtube <URL> and <URL> . The problem in both of these examples is the obvious lines where you can see the contrast and lightness changes . However if you had either Adobe Premiere Elements or Adobe After effects this effect is a lot easier , and more professional <URL> you can find those tutorials <URL> and <URL> Have a rummage around the <URL> for good tutorials
iTunes movie rentals originally purchased on a computer can be moved between devices as many times as you like during the rental period but can only " exist " on one device at a time . To move it between devices , use iTunes with the device you want to put it on . See this <URL> . Steps are : Connect the device and select it in iTunes . Click the Movies button . Select the movie , and then click Move . After all movies have been moved , click Apply in the lower-right corner of iTunes . To answer your direct question : no , rentals do not currently exist in the cloud .
One person sharing two or more Macs , all running Lion Method A : physical share of a disk For your file to be versioned , save first to removable media with a file system that supports permanent version storage . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . Use the volume with other Macs running Lion . Examples : a USB flash drive using MS-DOS ( FAT ) lacks support a USB flash drive using JHFS + does support permanent version storage . Method B : electronic file share of a disk image In a directory that is shared using Apple Filing Protocol ( or any other appropriate <URL> ) , create a disk image , maybe a sparse bundle . Choose a format -- a file system -- that supports permanent version storage . Open the image . For your file to be versioned , save first to the volume that is imaged . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . At another Mac running Lion : connect to the file server open the image . Hints The <URL> preference pane can help you to enable advanced image options in Disk Utility . An image of a volume may be not reliably backed up whilst the volume is attached/mounted . For reliability , unmount/eject the volume before backing up . Multiple users Either method A or B will work , but both require negotiation between humans :-) Method C For each version that you wish to share , use the Duplicate command then save a separate file . The downside of this traditional approach is separation . Users of other Macs ( not necessarily running Lion ) might take a Cover Flow view of the files , but that 's not as neat as a versions browser view of a single file . AFP , Apple versions and security/privacy You might wonder why saving to an Apple-oriented file service , for example a service using <URL> , does not save Apple versions on the server . Think : privacy , security . Example Someone in Government saves a file that describes the true state of the economy , a state that is terrible . The person changes the file to present a different truth , a truth that will keep the lions at bay , saves his or her changes . When ready to share , the author puts the one file on an AFP server . Other users of the server open the file in any application that supports Apple versions . They see only one version , the most recent . We ( other users ) might wish to see all versions of a file -- including versions that were not intended for sharing -- but for Mac OS X 10.7 ( Build 11A511 ) the sanest default is : share nothing other than the most recent version .
I would start with the built-in VPN software on the mac . You basically add a new network interface of the VPN kind . Here 's the quick tour : Open System Preferences select Network add a new VPN interface to match your server settings The Finder help menu has several articles worth reading - the top 5 hits show how to understand , set up , use as well as basic troubleshooting . Apple 's support site has more in-depth information if you need to learn how to set up a VPN server ( it 's geared to the OS X server , but the concepts are the same on any server and once you get the terminology , the button location wo n't matter so much )
You can achieve this by making an automator workflow and saving it as a service . Open Automator.app , choose to make a Service . In the top menu set " Service receives selected " to " text " in " any application " . From the Actions , Library menu search for " Get Value of Variable " and drag to the right in the workflow area . Again in the Actions , Library search for " Run AppleScript " and drag to the workflow area . In the " Run AppleScript " action enter the flowing code : Add a variable by clicking on the little double bar icon at the bottom of the window and then right-clicking in the variables frame to create a new variable . Name your variable anything you like . When your done your workflow should look like below . Save it and name it something like " Run in Terminal " . Now when your in a web browser you can right click and navigate to Services and you will see your " Run in Terminal " command , which will open up terminal and run the highlighted text .
NB this seems to be fixed in the most recent versions of OS X , so workaround perhaps no longer required ... Workaround Probably the simplest / safest option is to ' flatten ' the PDF before sending it , by printing it to a new PDF . After completing your form in Preview , go to the Print menu ( ) and use the PDF drop-down in the bottom-left , selecting to to generate a new , ' flattened ' PDF . Flattened simply means that all annotations ( including data in the form ) become indistinguishable from the actual content of the PDF , as if they were part of it all along . This means you ca n't edit them anymore ( in the new , printed PDF ) , which can be desirable , but also means they 'll show up properly in Adobe . The Problem The actual cause of the problem is <URL> from Adobe , and that blog post also includes a script for Acrobat users to recover the data from a form filled in using Preview.app ( it turns out Preview puts the data in the form , but does n't specify how it should ' appear ' , so Acrobat shows it as blank/invisible ) . I 'll leave it up to the reader to decide whether this is a bug in Adobe 's software ( for not showing form data without a specified " appearance " ) or a bug in Apple 's software ( for not including the " appearance " information ) . If you 've been affected by this bug , please consider notifying one/both of these companies of the issue : Apple 's <URL> or <URL> sites . Adobe 's <URL> or <URL> sites .
end question
start question
How do iPads detect when a cover closes ?
The Smart Cover has a magnet that interacts with the sleep sensor of an iPad . So whenever you close the Smart Cover , iPad will know when to sleep . The same theory for waking up . Info from <URL>
In general , you should hold the key ( s ) down until they take effect . For single-user and verbose modes , that means hold them until you see text start to appear . For the others , it 's generally ok to let go once you see the Apple in the middle of the screen ( the Apple is drawn by the booter , which loads after the firmware has detected startup options ) . If you have FileVault 2 ( full volume encryption ) set up , things are a little more complicated , since some key combinations ( mainly single-user , verbose , and safe boot ) do n't take effect until after you 've authenticated to unlock the startup volume . It currently seems to do a good job of detecting the key combos before the authentication screen , then having them take effect after you " log in " . But if that 's not working for you , try holding them down as you press return on the FV2 authentication screen , and keep holding them until you see them take effect .
Save a plist like this as : Then load the plist with or by logging out and back in . is supposed to open an application hidden and without raising any windows . For some document-based applications like TextEdit , it opens a new visible window if the application is open but has no visible windows . and the option for were added in 10.8 . The option is only shown in the help message and not on the man page .
Looks like the computer is set to prefer or prioritise the xfiniti Wifi hotspot over you home wifi , you can set your home Wifi to be of priority to any other Wifi connection and this is how to do that , System Preferences/Network / then select Wifi and click on Advanced , you 'll see all preferred networks there . Click and drag your home Wifi to the top .
Yes , it is possible . Numbers can be entered using the keyboard . The correct tones will be produced and transmitted on your Yosemite Mac .
I 'm assuming you 're talking about AirPlay Screen Mirroring from a Mac to an Apple TV . In that case , yes , you are loosing signal quality from compression-before-transmission and decompression-after-reception . In particular , the audio part of the AirPlay Screen Mirroring is compressed using the AAC-ELD codec to ensure low-latency sound encoding . However , there is a signal loss involved .
<URL> could help you out here . It 's very configurable outbound firewall for Macs . The rule set it supports is comprehensive and you can block based on interface as well as IP ranges . You could set it up with everything blocked , tether , let through just the apps you want , and then enable/disable Little Snitch with this ruleset based on how you 're using your Mac at any particular point in time .
If you hold option , the skip button should turn to keep both at least in 10.8.2 .
There are actually multiple levels of download . Even when you view an image , a device-optimized version is retrieved . Only when you Edit or Share a photo is it fully downloaded from iCloud ( possibly when you zoom in all the way , also ) . With that being said , you ca n't bulk-Edit ; however , you can bulk-Share . Here are the steps that worked for me : Go into the album you wish to download locally . Tap Select . Tap Select All . Tap the Share icon in the bottom-left hand corner . Select Email . Wait for the Preparing progress indicator to complete . This may take a while depending on how large your album is and on the speed of your connection . When your email is ready , Cancel out of it . Remember that these photos are eligible for purging if your device becomes low on storage . Note : I tried this on a relatively small album ( 20 photos and videos ) . I do n't know if your iPhone might crash attempting to share 500 photos at once . If you choose to Download and Keep Originals , I believe your iPhone does that while your device is locked , on Wi-Fi , and has sufficient charge . It might help to have Photos as the foreground app when locking the iPhone .
When the text bubble is green instead of blue , you 're sending a SMS instead of using iMessage , being , therefore , charged for that . Messages are sent as SMS when iMessage is unavailable , unless you disable this under Settings / Messages / Send as SMS . So , as I understand it , you either sent it to an non Apple ID email address , or the text could n't reach the receiver through iMessage , changing to SMS mode .
Authorized retailers can order the new units from Apple more or less at the same time the Apple Stores get the new stuff . But while Apple Stores get the new stuff out on the sales floor at launch , the other retailers , for whom Apple gear is a small part of their business , may take longer to get the new stuff shipped from Apple , into their inventory systems , go through their internal distribution , and get it on their floors .
iCloud Photo Library 's purpose is to unify the photo libraries across your devices . If you wish your devices to maintain separate libraries , you need to disable iCloud Photo Library .
If you bought the device without a contract , it 's unlocked ! The information about AT&amp;T and Verizon is important when talking about LTE availability in the US . Only AT&amp;T and Verizon provide LTE networks in the US that work with the iPad . 4G LTE is supported only on AT&amp;T and Verizon networks in the U.S. and on Bell , Rogers , and Telus networks in Canada . <URL> This is important to note as LTE frequency bands used in Europe , Australia and probably most of Asia are <URL> . You will use DC-HSDPA , HSPA + or UMTS instead for fast internet access .
There is an easier option . Go to the contact that has been merged . Click edit . Click the minus icon next to the Facebook card at the bottom of the contact . The two cards will spring apart and you will have two contacts . Hit save .
The fan speedup happens because normally the fan speeds are controlled dynamically in response to CPU temperature by the firmware ( and as the CPUs are typically underutilized , there is rarely or never any need to run the fans at anything like the maximum speed ) . However , when the firmware is being updated , that dynamic temperature control is not possible - for safety the speed is just set to the maximum and left there until the update is complete . This is true for all systems ( even PCs - you will often notice a high fan speed for a moment when booting them as well ) So the real question is why is the difference between normal and maximum fan speeds is so great in the laptop ( MacBook ) systems as opposed to Mac desktop/tower/mini systems - and the answer to that is simply that the laptop hardware has much smaller clearances and therefore poor airflow without fans running . So for safety and increased CPU speeds on laptop systems , more powerful ( louder , faster ) fans are needed ( although they will eat your battery , as much or more than the increased CPU power consumption itself when the CPUs are fully utilized ) .
You can do this by : In the Finder , press ⌘ ⇧ G to Go to Folder . Type " " Find the service you no longer want Drag it to the Trash
First , click the Annotations button Then click the down arrow on the Signatures button You can then select the signature you wish to use .
I do n't have any apps installed to try this with , but this looked like it might work . The solution is for Mountain Lion , not Mavericks , so it may have changed . <URL> I just discovered the missing solution here : <URL> You can selectively disable notifications about specific software updates you do n't care about ( like useless App updates ) by control-clicking the update inside the App Store to reveal a hidden " Hide Update " option . This is best for those who want to keep Notification Center active for all its other uses ( calendar alarms , etc. ) and who also want to be notified about critical software updates . It should permanently mute notifications about certain software updates ( until that software comes out with a new update ) .
Solution is a terminal command with which you can control the sleep timer . I set it to 1 minute . This still means the disk wakes up every hour for the time machine backup , and also every 15 minutes-ish for god knows what reason . But its much better than before , just annoying that it regularly wakes up for a minute , which is distracting .
The Smart Cover has a magnet that interacts with the sleep sensor of an iPad . So whenever you close the Smart Cover , iPad will know when to sleep . The same theory for waking up . Info from <URL>
end question
start question
How do I backup 2 external hard disks to 1 external hard disk ?
This can even be done in Time Machine : Choose the 5 TB HDD as only Time Machine backup drive ( OK , my disks are smaller ) : <URL> Then exclude your internal drive by adding it to the excluded items - the backup drive is excluded automatically : <URL> The final result : You get a folder Backups.backupdb with one folder vm ( the name of my Mac ) containing folders ( with date names representing the backup date ) and each with two folders representing the two drives ( Data1 and Encrypted ) . I added and modified files successively on both volumes and initiated a backup after each step . <URL> Needless to say : it 's recommended to backup your main drive/system drive also !
There are easily 10Gb of files hidden from the Finder . Get Info on a disk and Get Info on a folder work differently . On a disk , it simply asks the disk resource for a count of the used blocks and thus gets an answer almost immediately . This value accurately reflects how much is stored on the drive in question . Get Info on a folder digs through that folder and adds up the size of each file that you are able to read . You can not , for example , know how much another user has in their Mail folder by running Get Info on the User folder . Also , there is a difference between the file size and the space-on-disk size . Storing a single character in a file will consume 4kb of disk space , the rest is wasted . One million one-byte files will therefore use 4Gb of space on disk . Files hidden from the Finder include almost the entire Unix subsystem , many low-level config files , virtual memory , sleep images , and the system caches . Do n't even think about deleting them - your computer will not boot , and the caches will simply get refilled . On the plus side , the Mac OS takes care of itself quite well . You the user , have absolutely no need to concern yourself with the inner workings , nor do you need 3rd-party utilities to do any maintenance ( most of them do n't do anything effective except reduce your bank balance ) . A very easy way to reclaim a lot of space is get an external and move your iPhoto and iTunes libraries there .
Disk benchmarks perform many read/write operations to measure the performance of your disk . It is recommend to save any work as high amount of those operations may cause some applications to slow down and crash by being unable to load/save data from/to your disk . Can benchmark app damage your disk ? No , however if your HDD or SSD has been extensively used over its lifetime then it is likely that its health status has decreased , making it more likely to fail . Keep in mind that it would be nothing but a coincidence if it would fail during the benchmark .
You can unlock the disk while booted from other partitions . You 'll be prompted for a password when mounting the disk . You can choose to save the password in your keychain if you prefer . Also , you can just right-click on the volume in the Finder and select , it 's the same as using Disk Utility .
Your instincts are correct . If a file is being modified when the program reads it , you will end up with a copy of it in a transient state ( or perhaps some programs like iPhoto that have a database that tracks files - the structure might not be correct to run with after a restore . ) This is why Time Machine makes two passes - it copies everything and then runs a second copy to pick up any files that were in the process of being modified during the first pass . Of course , a file under constant change might not get saved in either case , but it reduces the odds of a critically vital file that does n't get changed often will be caught in a delicate moment . To be safe , you want to boot to another OS ( the recovery HD or an external drive ) to run imaging if you need to ensure a perfect copy and all files being closed and flushed properly to storage .
I would try using rsync from the command line . should do the trick . Mind the trailing / at the end of the source . Rsync will not copy files it finds on the destination , so if you call it a second time it will continue where it left off .
This MacBook can simultaneously support the internal display as well as up to 3840x2160 at 30 Hz or up to 4096x2160 at 24Hz on one external display . In other words , connecting two external Thunderbolt Displays is not officially supported by Apple . The two displays are the internal display and an external display . If you 're still interested in connecting one external display , since this MacBook has a single USB-C port and no traditional video port , you 'll need an adapter to connect the display . Apple provides support for both HDMI and VGA via the following respective adapters : the <URL> for HDMI monitors , and also allows you to connect a standard USB device and a USB-C charging cable . the <URL> for VGA monitors . Like the HDMI adapter , this also allows you to connect a standard USB device and a USB-C charging cable . Once you have the appropriate adapter , it 's just a case of connecting the cable between it and your monitor . Of course , you may choose to purchase 3rd party adapters instead of the Apple branded ones .
I just figured this out . All I had to do was drag the folder containing the apps to the Launchpad icon on the dock .
You should be able to use <URL> to do most of what you want . Certainly requirement 1 is met and you should be able to achieve most of 2 with it too .
I have the same model of Macbook which was showing the same issues . After replacing the Harddrive with an SSD I still had the same issue . It ended up being the SATA cable connecting the hard drive to the logic board . Over some time the insulation had started to wear off and the cable was occasionally shorting against the base of the case causing IO errors . Once I replaced the cable these errors stopped happening . A good way of checking this would be to use an external USB to SATA cable and try and boot the laptop from it externally . If the drive functions well when doing this then it is likely the SATA cable that is at fault .
Yes ( maybe ) . There 's an open-source kernel driver <URL> for Mac OS X that will work for some USB and Firewire enclosures . It uses <URL> to pass the SMART commands through to the hard drive , so only works if your enclosure supports SAT . SAT is n't something enclosures seem to advertise support for , but the one I use ( WD MyBook Studio Edition ) happens to support it , so it works for me . It 'll probably be quicker to test the software with your drive/enclosure , than to find out if SAT is supported in the specs .
It is possible , although not from Apple themselves . A company called OWC seem to specialise in SSD upgrades for macbook 's and have upgrades for your model <URL> These particular upgrades offer greater speed and capacity to some of the stock apple SSD 's from 2011 .
No , you do not have to purchase OS X more than once . If you are referring to OS X Lion and Mountain Lion , both of which were distributed from the App Store , one purchase is enough for every Mac that you own or control . ( see Apple 's EULA for this ) Additionally , Lion and Mountain Lion have <URL> , which means that a drive that fails or any new drive installed without OS X will be automatically connected to the Internet and installed with a fresh copy of your respective OS . Additionally , Apple has their own <URL> for making USB drives for physical media recovery solutions , or you can use <URL> . Make sure to read LionDiskMaker 's FAQ ( in the link provided ) , as this answers crucial questions concerning the application 's usage .
You could use <URL> to try to clone the raw volume ( there are some notes on running it under OS X on <URL> ) . It basically tries to read over &amp; over , getting as much as possible from the disk . This is n't ideal for your situation , since it 1 ) needs enough free disk space ( either a volume or a disk image ) to hold the entire drive , including free space ( i.e. if it was a 200GB drive with 10GB of files , you need 200GB to hold the clone ) ; and 2 ) it does n't tell you which files it could n't read ( you can look at the log and see what blocks it has n't been able to read , but figuring out what files those blocks are part of is not trivial ) . The good news about is that , thanks to its log file , if it missed something you need ( and you have n't modified the target volume at all -- mounting readonly is recommended ) , you can just run it again and it 'll pick up where it left off , and keep hammering on the difficult blocks until they give up their data .
Boot Camp does n't require you to reformat your drive . HFS + partitions can be live-resized by the Boot Camp Assistant or the Disk Utility without going through the trouble of erasing everything . No file on your Mac OS partition will be affected . There is , however , the case where you 've had your computer for long and Mac OS has written files all across your drive . In this case , you will need to defragment your drive , in order to put all your files in a nice contiguous space on your hard drive , so that all the remaining space is contiguous too and a partition can be made there . As far as I know , <URL> can do this for about $ 15 . ( Disclaimer : I never did it and ca n't guarantee it will work . But it should . Can someone confirm ? ) The other way , if you have an external drive , is to copy all your files to this external drive using a software like <URL> ( free ) , reformat your drive , then copy them all back to your drive . Everything should be like before and you 'll have no hassle except the time required to copy back and forth ( your programs and your serial numbers and the such will be intact ) .
You 've set the homepage to open on startup . Go to settings check the option there . You can disable it from there too .
Press and hold the Home and Power Button until your iPhone / iPad reboot ( ignore the " Slide to turn off " ) , you can release both buttons when you see Apple logo . You can even read the official <URL> .
Yes , it 's possible . First you need to create the virtual machine , after you completed the wizard do n't start the VM but go to the menu - > Copy the 3 files ( . vbox , . vbox-prev , . vdi ) to your external hard disk . After select the VM inside virtualbox and go to menu - > and click the button After go to menu - > and select the VM file you copied before . Now the VM is inside virtualbox and runs from your external hard disk .
You can change the library location from the window on the tab . and select the tab . At the top where it says click the button : In the Finder window that opens , move the to the place where you 'd rather it exist . This can take some time if it 's a large library . Once it 's moved , double click on it in Finder and your Photos app will update and point to the new location .
Yes , I just got a new Mid-2012 MacBook Pro 13 " and did this very thing over USB 3.0 . I know of no reason why it would not work on a MacBook Air . When booting from an external spinning hard drive over USB 3.0 on my new MacBook Pro , the external hard drive sends data back and forth to the Mac about as fast as it would if it were installed internally . I have not specifically measured drive speeds in this scenario ; I 'm just saying that it performs quite well . As far as I know , all Macs with USB have been capable of booting from an external drive connected via USB -- all the way back to the first iMac circa 1998 , which only made use of USB 1.0 . Booting from an external USB 2.0 drive , whether a flash/thumb drive or a spinning hard drive , is , however , quite slow . When you boot your Mac , immediately after the startup chime , hold down the Option key . Your Mac will show you a row of icons of each volume or partition currently connected to the Mac ( internally or externally ) that holds a Mac OS X installation that you can successfully boot from . Use the arrow keys to select which one you want to boot from , and hit the Return key to boot from that volume .
end question
start question
Can I use one charger for all MacBooks from years 2008 to 2013 ?
The physical MagSafe adapter remains unchanged from a pinout perspective ( the shape has altered externally from a T shape to an L shape and back again ) for almost every Macbook except the 2012 Macbook Air and Retina Macbook which use MagSafe 2 ; Adapters are available to connect a MagSafe power supply to these machines , but you can not use a MagSafe 2 adapter to power anything other than the 2012 Air and Retina at present . You need to ensure that you use the correct power rated charger for the Macbooks . Macbook Airs use a 45 watt supply , through to something like 85 watts for Macbook Pros . It 's OK to use a higher rated supply than is required , the charger only supplies what is asked of it , so a Macbook Air on a Pros power supply will only request its 45 watts , not get fried with 85 watts . Conversely , it 's not OK to do the opposite , running a MBP on an Airs power supply will request up to 85 watts of draw on a 45 watt power supply , and burn out the adapter eventually .
You can use wget like this : - r to recursively download all files below the level of the URL specified - nd to not create a hierarchy of directories in your download location ( not necessary ) - A to specify the files you want to download ( all files ending in . mp3 in your case ) You can obtain wget for OSX via homebrew or macports .
The best practice in storing app credentials is the Keychain . If you really need to recover the password check out this guide <URL> In iTunes , go to the " Summary " section , scroll to Backups , and enable the " Encrypt iPhone backup " option . After recovery , feel free to wipe the new iPhone . In case the app did not store in Keychain , you can use this technique to migrate app data individually <URL> Before we start , we should note this works for any iOS device . So if you want to back up and transfer data for iPads , iPhones , or between the two , this works . To manually backup and transfer data , we 're going to use the free Mac and Windows program iExplorer . You do n't need to jailbreak your iPhone to use iExplorer and it 's easy to pull data from your iPhone to transfer it to your new device . Here 's how to do it . Download the app you want to transfer data to on your new iPad . Plug your iPhone into your computer . Start up iExplorer and wait for your device to show up in the file browser . Click the arrow next to your device name . Click the arrow next to Apps . Find the app you want to transfer data from and click the arrow . Inside the app 's main folder is a folder called Documents . That 's where your saved data and game saves are located . Copy it to your desktop . Disconnect your iPhone from your computer and plug in your iPad . In iExplorer , find the app you want to transfer data to on your iPad using the same steps from above . Locate the Documents folder and copy all the data you just copied to your desktop folder onto the iPad . That 's it , you 're done . Different apps use different save files and occasionally the above process will require you to copy several files over . Other times you only have one file . This process works for most apps , but not all of them . Let 's take a look at a few of the instances where data does n't transfer over properly . Do n't forget to look at the caveats because sometimes this technique does not work .
Custom syntax color themes are located in ( Note that this directory may not exist if you 've not yet modified any of your themes or have n't created a custom theme of your own , but will be created as soon as you do . ) The files have a extension . Simply retrieve the file from that directory and copy it into the same directory on another machine . I quite like Ethan Schoonover 's <URL> ; I find them to be very readable and easy on the eyes , and can be installed as explained above .
That 's called " Application windows " in System Preferences → Mission Control . There you can set a hot key to activate this . If you have a track pad , it 's also available via four finger swipe down .
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
iOS devices allow you to use different Apple IDs for different purposes . You can set the Apple ID to be associated with Messages in Settings > Messages .
While I 'm not abosultely sure , how achieved my result , but after a reboot the update for one app-store app is gone now . What I did : the following is tested on old Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app ( free from appstore ) , before my tests the app-store showing an available update for it . Right click on app , select Show package contents go to " Contents " Move the following files and folders to some backup place ( folder ) reboot If that does n't work , remove these additional items from the package contents : - ( folder ) - ( alias ) Maybe it is not enough , ( in my tests i did the following too ) , try : Go to ( alt-click on Finder 's Go menu , select Library ) Caches move to backup location the folder reboot After the above steps , the AppStore do n't showing the available update for the " Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app " . Warning : all the above is tested only in one app , need more testing , it is absolutely without any warranty and do n't blame me when your computer will burn , get grabbed by extraterrestrial aliens or anything other ...
Currently , year view is the highest level you can view a map for . With iOS 10 , this is expanded to viewing all photos together on the map , but iOS 10 is not available yet at the time of writing .
The MacPro uses a proprietary interface - at least when it was first designed - for their SSD 's It is a PCIe 2.0 x4 spec . It was called " proprietary " because no other " workstation class " computer used these types of drives . They typically went with SATA or SAS ( enterprise class of course ) The best price you are going to find for these drives is through <URL> . You may be able to win an auction on ebay , but for the time and hassle , I usually just went with Amazon . These drive only work with the " grey " cylinder MacPro . You can get more info from <URL> What you might want to consider at this point is sticking with the SSD that you have and adding a thunderbolt drive . I personally use the <URL> 6GB with my iMac ( iMac has 256GB SSD ) . It is super fast and expandable . It has user serviceable drives so you can upgrade anytime you want . There are other options out there , but after all my research , I picked this one and I have been extremely happy with it . Update ( 3.31.16 ) A year later and this has n't changed much . OWC is apparently the only aftermarket manufacturer of these SSD with the PCIe 2.0 x4 interface . As far as SSD options , they seem to stop at 2013 for the MBA . I know , I have a relative that spilled milk on an MBA and have been looking for a USB to 2014 MBA SSD enclosure to transfer data and I can find none under $ 100 . It seems that the 2015 MBA SSD will work in the Mac Pro as they use the same SSD model ( see below ) . Source : <URL> <URL> The 2014 MBA uses the PCIe 2.0 x2 so I can not say if it will work or not ( and I would be unwilling to test out this theory given the high cost of the components ) . Source : <URL> <URL>
Yes . In almost all cases , OS X software is hardware-agnostic ( as long as the hardware comes from Apple ) .
You can force Preview to prompt for save on quit with the following Terminal command : Quit and re-open Preview once and you will be prompted in future closes
The physical MagSafe adapter remains unchanged from a pinout perspective ( the shape has altered externally from a T shape to an L shape and back again ) for almost every Macbook except the 2012 Macbook Air and Retina Macbook which use MagSafe 2 ; Adapters are available to connect a MagSafe power supply to these machines , but you can not use a MagSafe 2 adapter to power anything other than the 2012 Air and Retina at present . You need to ensure that you use the correct power rated charger for the Macbooks . Macbook Airs use a 45 watt supply , through to something like 85 watts for Macbook Pros . It 's OK to use a higher rated supply than is required , the charger only supplies what is asked of it , so a Macbook Air on a Pros power supply will only request its 45 watts , not get fried with 85 watts . Conversely , it 's not OK to do the opposite , running a MBP on an Airs power supply will request up to 85 watts of draw on a 45 watt power supply , and burn out the adapter eventually .
This works exactly as one would expect it to : When you share from an iOS 8 device , purchases made with the Apple ID used on that device for purchases ( iTunes , iBooks , AppStore ) -- even if that ID is different from the one used for iCloud ( Photos , Mail , Contacts , Calendars ) on that device -- will be shared .
After consulting AppleCare , I finally solved this issue perfectly . I post my solution here so that the future users may solve it easily when they reach Apple S.X. . Delete two files : and . Then do the NVRAM restarting to your MacBook to reset the audio settings . Detailed steps to do the NVRAM restarting is <URL> . Then , problem solved .
Most <URL> charges for 0.5 A . But not all USB are standardized - there are some that go for up to 1.8 A and even the MacBook Pro <URL> to raise up to 1.1 A when relevant . iPhone 's charger do little more than 1.1 A and it 's pretty decent . That 's why iPhone charging on regular USB usually take double the time to fully charge . <URL> are <URL> 10W and 5V which <URL> 2A . <URL> that can happen with the charger because USB devices are made to work with the same standard voltage ( about 5V ) . The USB hosts are only outputting the maximum energy it can provide up to what the client can receive . A 10W energy source will only give up to 10W and just 1W if the plugged device can only take 1W . I 'm no electrical specialist but ... Having bigger power supply ( measured in watts ) or bigger current ( measured in amperes ) on itself ca n't break any system because what puts them in movement is the difference of potential measured by volts . Think of a light bulb and picture all USB devices are prepared to receive about 5V ( actually little more ) . If you get a 220V and put in on a 110V nothing wrong happens , but it will be very weak . Apple 's chargers only go up to 5V , which is within the USB standard . So yeah , it 's all good and safe .
The technician used <URL> . Apple defines a vintage product as one that was discontinued more than 5 , but less than 7 , years ago . Apple defines an obsolete product as one discontinued more than 7 years ago . Your Mac is 3 1/2 years old , thats not yet very old . With Apple notebooks I typically expect about 6 - 7 years of solid use . Right now a 7 year old MacBook Pro can still run Lion , which is still fully supported by Apple , thus , in real world terms , making it not yet obsolete , even by Apple 's terms . When it comes to finding parts for a Mac that fits Apple 's definitions though , that becomes tricky if you insist on " new " parts . I emphasize new because any of Apple 's service parts for Macs over a year or two old carry a high likelihood of being reconditioned , meaning they were returned to Apple through service channels , diagnosed , fixed , strenuously tested then re-certified for use . Apple Authorized Service Providers ( AASP ) , including AppleCare &amp; Genius Bar , are able to still order parts for vintage Macs , but that part supply is no longer replenished . So , say you need a logic board for a vintage MacBook , an AASP can place an order for a logic board and if one is still in stock then the order will be fulfilled . If none are in stock then the AASPs ( non-Apple only ) only other option is going with one from a non-Apple source , whether it be a spare they have or from another reseller . If you need a logic board for an obsolete MacBook then an AASP ( non-Apple only ) only has the option of finding one through another reseller or using a used spare they have on hand . Situations like this are typically the reason a lot of old Macs get retired . When it comes to sourcing parts on your own there are several reputable vendors that deal in refurbished Apple parts . A few examples : <URL> - iFixit is also a tremendous resource for walk throughs for the majority of repairs you might encounter with just about any Mac . <URL> <URL> <URL> is also a handy resource although , as always , exercise caution and proper sense when buying from eBay . As to your specific question , of how difficult would it be to find parts for and repair a 12 year old MacBook ... As of right now the oldest MacBook is just shy of 8 years old , so we ca n't answer your exact question . However , finding parts for and repairing that 8 year old MacBook is still quite possible in most cases , although many would find it cost prohibitive , meaning they would rather put the $ 200-400 towards a new or used Mac rather than fixing an 8 year old model . There ARE 12 year old PowerBook G4s though , and those follow the same idea I laid out in the previous paragraph . Repair is often possible , although finding logic boards seems to be a bit tougher these days , but it often does n't make financial sense to repair rather than to replace . Source - I worked in the Apple break/fix ecosystem for 6 years , for both an AASP and as a Mac Genius .
It 's unlikely they will actually damage your MacBook Pro by delivering too much power to it . But there are many cautionary tales to be found on the internet of third party chargers overheating , and occasionally catching fire or exploding . Technically , using a non-Apple charger without Apple 's written permission may also void your warranty if anything did go wrong . Personally , I would n't risk it .
Unlike the Time Capsule , the Airport Extreme does n't support being a backup destination , no matter what drive you use . It is possible to <URL> , but this is unsafe - the AEBS lacks features that help protect data , and without them , the slightest network error can make your backups useless . Some of the technical reasons for this have been explored here : <URL> However , you can look for a network-attached drive that supports Time Machine , such as WD 's My Book Live . These are drives that attach by ethernet instead of USB , and they implement the file-sharing features that Time Machine requires .
While Apple 's <URL> will let you connect one of these external monitors , there 's also the <URL> which will connect two external DVI displays ( I 've never seen or used one , ymmv ) .
end question
start question
Can any recent iPhone benefit from the AirPods instant pairing ?
Yes , the iPhone 5 and newer running iOS 10 can be paired with headphones equipped with the W1 chip . From Apple 's website : Beats Solo3 Wireless is ready to go when you are . They instantly set up -- just power on and hold near your iPhone -- and then simultaneously connect to your Apple Watch , iPad and Mac * . * Requires iCloud account and macOS Sierra , iOS 10 , or watchOS 3
You are able to see the charge status on the iPhone page on the new iTunes 11 .
Have you tried <URL> ? It is a little more constrained than any box , but it works .
For now , the only way to upload all burst photos to Dropbox natively is to connect your iPhone to a computer with a cable , and let Dropbox Camera Upload sync . There it uploads all the photos , and not just the single image as it does while syncing wirelessly . I too have struggled with a solution to this problem , and pray that in the future it will be resolved ...
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
Can a Macbook charge it 's batteries from a USB-A charger ( car or wall ) or battery pack ? It depends , but yes , it should work . The charging performance may vary from it charges very slowly to not at all . " Type A " is the <URL> ; it has nothing to do with how much power is being delivered . What you need is a power adapter that is compliant to USB 3.1 specifications . It just so happens that to connect it to your MacBook , you need a " Type C " connector . Would I recommend you doing this ? Absolutely not . Important Note : Plugging into a power source that is significantly lower than what is required by your device can and will <URL> . Why ? First , we need to know what the power requirements are to power the <URL> ; per Apple , it requires a 29W USB-C Power Adapter ( see below ) . <URL> Generally speaking , the USB Type A adapters most people are familiar with are those that charge their iDevices . These are based on USB 2.0 at best and according to the <URL> , they are limited to 5V 1.5 A . <URL> That means , those chargers are limited to 7.5 W. ( Watts = Volts * Amps ) 7.5 W is nowhere enough to power your Macbook . <URL> If you notice in the above USB 3.0 pin out diagram , there is only 1 5V ( VCC ) pin ( this is important in understanding USB 3.1 further down ) . The USB 3.1 is the specification that says it will support up to 20V at 5A . Using the same equation from above we get a specification that is capable of handling up to 100W so there 's enough power " bandwidth " to charge your Macbook . But that 's using a special communications protocol over a USB-C cable . 20V * 5A = 100W However , the basic spec is still the same , 5V but now at 3A and there are two 5 volt pins as opposed to only one for USB 3.0 and earlier . This means combined you can get 10V . <URL> If you notice in this pin out diagram there are two 5V pins ( Vbus ) . These are combined to make 10V . Note : There are some USB 3.1 Type A adapters out in the wild , but they are so few and far between I was n't able to find a schematic for the pinouts . I am using Type C since these are the most common . So using our trusty equation again , ( 2x 5V ) * 3A = 10V * 3A = 30W 30W is within spec of charging your Macbook . But what about the cable ? Plugging in a USB 3.1 ( A to C ) into a non-USB 3.1 power adapter will not fix the problem . The adapter is only providing 5 volts on one pin , not on two that 's required to get the appropriate amount of current .
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
To ensure that any new Contacts I created went into the " From My Mac " group , I changed the " Default Account " for Contacts [ in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars ] from " Exchange " to " From My Mac " . There is no functionality to manage Contact Group membership on the iPhone in iOS 5.1 . To move the Contacts from Outlook to " From My Mac " , I found those contacts in Outlook ( on my PC ) , and emailed a Vcard / . vcf file ( In Outlook , right-click the Contact , choose " Foward Contact " , then choose " As a Business Card " ) to my personal email address . I then opened those Vcards on the iPhone through Mail , and saved as new Contacts . ( They went to the correct group because I 'd made change in Settings , above . ) Last , I deleted those contacts from Outlook , so that they would n't be dupes . See also <URL> .
Yes - you can use Automator to make a service for Finder ( or all applications ) to perform rotation of images . Then you can assign a keyboard shortcut to that action . I 'm not aware of quicklook plug-in that rotate , but that 's something that might exist . Modifying finder 's shortcut bar might be the least likely way to activate things , but hopefully an Automator service ( or app / droplet ) will do .
You can read the recent items plist file . There 's a lot of " noise " in the output . You can filter the " noise " with and list the last entry with which should be the last file opened ( but not always the case ) .
No , this is not possible . You are not able to see the last location of a device , only the current location , and since you 've removed the device you ca n't obtain any location information .
The maximum OS version is 9.2.2 for Classic Mac OS or OS X 10.3.9 ( Panther ) . I 'm not sure which one to recommend . OS 9 might be faster , but OS X is certainly more powerful and will be far better supported by software ( though Panther is so old that you 'll have to use old versions of many apps ) . You 'll probably have to go digging on Craigslist or eBay for install discs that old .
Yes . You can always restore from and older to a newer iOS version , however you ca n't go from a newer iOS version and restore to an older version .
In a word , No . Apple did n't want to hand over the responsibility of application and memory management to the user , and personally I 'm glad that they made that decision . The purpose of the multitasking bar is to allow users to switch between apps and to quit apps in order to open them afresh ( in case of crashes or weird behaviour ) . iOS does n't actually allow 3rd party apps to continually run in the background . There are several methods that Apple have provided to developers which allow a sort of pseudo background tasking functionality . Long and short is , iOS is pretty damn good at managing memory usage and will kill applications in situations where RAM is running extremely low to prevent a total OS crash . My advice is , let the OS handle it .
In OS X 10.9 , you can simply do . This will immediately turn off your display without changing any of your settings or putting the entire host to sleep . Escalated privileges do n't seem to be required ( at least with recent versions of OS X ) , but if you get a message about inadequate privileges , you could do . Based on feedback from commenters , this is not available in OS X 10.8 or earlier .
Go to Settings > Notifications > Stock Widget and turn it Off . Notifications for all apps that can display them are managed in Settings . Two built-in apps , Stocks and Weather , get exceptional treatment and show in Notification Center as widgets . In the Notifications Settings , they are listed as Stock Widget and the Weather Widget . To prevent an app from displaying in Notification Center , click the app in the list and make sure the option " Notification Center " is set to off .
Nowadays , this seems to be more of a timing issue , and I think Apple has improved the system overall . Basically , it 's no longer an issue .
I do n't have an iPhone 4 to test this , but I assume Core Location will do . <URL> <URL> is also an option , and comes with some more information .
This is currently not possible ( iOS 8 , OS X 10.10.3 ) . A similar question has been asked on the Apple Communities forum , and the consensus there was that it 's not possible : <URL> It 's possible that Apple will add this functionality in a later version of their software/OS .
The iPhone does not have any support for Quicktime VR files .
end question
start question
How to export address book to mailchimp or CSV file ?
The following AppleScript will <URL> from Contacts.app . It was written for OS X 10.9 but should work on older editions ; you may need to change to to talk to the appropriate application : To use this AppleScript : Launch AppleScript Editor from Applications > Utilities Copy and paste the code below into a new document Run the script On completion a will appear on your desktop Export Contacts to CSV AppleScript
You can add the location into your executable path . Step 1 : Use an editor to open ~ / . profile Step 2 : Add the actual path into the file . For example , I added / Users/work/documents / fun/scripts into it and my ~ / . profile looks like Step 3 : Restart terminal , and issue which command . You should see the path of your program , and should be able to run the program regardless of your location . Or another way , move the program into the existing executable path . To see existing executable path .
If you can transfer the document to a general-purpose app that " knows " about files ( like <URL> , <URL> , or iBooks ) , you should be able to access it from the file-handling dialog from within iTunes . Most computers can create an ad-hoc WiFi network ; using this , you 'd use a network-sharing app ( like <URL> ) to mount a disk from your iPhone and transfer the files to your computer .
I was able to complete this exact process using <URL> . Once installed you can use an existing or newly created custom form to collect your data . Once complete you can export the file . The . csv will be available in the Export folder in the Files area . From there you can select the . csv and Upload to Dropbox . This will upload the . csv file to the root of your Dropbox . Additionally you can open the . csv in Tap Forms and then use the share button ( top right ) to " Open In ... " , which will allow you to select the Dropbox app ( assuming that you have it installed . Once Dropbox launches , you will be presented with the Dropbox upload process , which allows you to select the upload folder in your Dropbox account . You can also create a new folder as an upload destination . Tap Forms also appears to support importing files from Dropbox as well .
Font Book is an application , not a font format . Some fonts that appear in Font Book are True Type fonts . For those that are not , the question is about converting that specific format . To find the file for a particular font , select it in Font Book , control-click it , and select " Show in Finder " . You can then see what the format is on the file .
The best approach is to use the Repeat With Action with the lines in file option selected . This allows you to read the CVS file on disk and iterate thru the rows as Fake Variables . You can then access these Fake Variables in other Actions which can fill out the web form ( or whatever you need ) . As seen in the screenshot above , I 'm using a Do JavaScript action to initially fetch the current Variable and then split it into an array of comma separated values . Then I use Fake 's JavaScript API to set individual variables for each column : Then use other Fake Actions to work with the data you 've fetched . In this case , I 'll fill out a simple web form using the Set Value of HTML Element Action . In this Action 's text fields you can access Fake Variables with this special syntax :
Ricardo is correct in his answer of @ 3x , but I 'll take a shot at answering your question as well . If you 're working from Retina resolution assets already , the upscale factor would be an additional 1.5 x for the iPhone 6 Plus . For example , your 88px by 88px Retina icon would have to be up-scaled to a resolution one and a half times that amount for the iPhone Six Plus : 88 * 1.5 = 132 .
If you 're not hammering the hard drive all the time , say by doing HD video work , then you 're not going to notice . In that case , the 5400 might be better because it is larger , takes less power and is less likely to fail .
<URL> iOS ( Push ) Email using the IMAP protocol Push is not default . You have to set it up <URL> . bi-directional contacts sync ( Exchange supported ) If you do not sync contacts using the exchange protocol , you only sync via iTunes . bi-directional calendars sync I do n't have good experiences with the bi-directional sync using the iOS calendar app . Luckily , there are plenty of third-party apps available which offer a tight integration of Google Calender . <URL> has been quite an enhancement to my Google experience . OSX iCal , Address Book and Mail allow to integrate sync with Google 's services in Preferences & #x 2192 ; Accounts . Google Services on other platforms Google 's Services are more widely available than anything else I know . It allows to keep contacts/calendars/email in sync on OSX , iOS , Android and Linux . In Ubuntu I use Google 's Services in Thunderbird and Google Calendar/Contacts extensions .
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
I have n't found any actual answer for my question , but instead found a very good alternative . Basically @icloud . com accounts also allow the creation of aliases that can be used in all iOS Mail apps , with one particular advantage : the alias allows changing the name of the recipient as well , something @outlook . com account aliases does not allow . You can create @icloud . com aliases using the web interface options .
This small application runs in the background and shows the current IP dddress of your Mac in the menu bar . There are options available to customize the appearance of the menu entry . The IP dddress is updated regulary . Switch on the Router option if you are behind a router or gateway . You can still see your local IP address in the menu . <URL> Do you need your computers IP address often ? If so , IPMenulet is likely the quickest way to have the number handy all the time , it 's a free and simple menu item that displays your current external IP address in the Mac OS X menu bar , there 's no other frills or features . You can download IPMenulet now ( direct . dmg download -- link changed visit dev site instead ) or visit the developers website here for more information and to view the simple tools source code . <URL> And the associated Google Search : <URL>
Get It is now exported . What format do you want the export to be ? The existing format is sqlite , so you can convert it to ASCII like so : For step one , you can jailbreak and then scp , or you can just search your backup folder for the file , no jailbreak required . If your phone is not jailbroken , look on OS X in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , although not in all cases , is named : To answer your other questions : Any OS , Free , Successful .
In the new Contacts Application for Mountain Lion there are no buttons for group management , only menu items . Under the File Menu , there are , , and menu items . When you have a group selected , under the Edit menu there will be a menu item available . To be able to select groups , you need to be in the proper view under the View menu : .
I just discovered that this is possible in Mac OS X 10.7 Lion ... and after testing further I discovered it 's possible in Mac OS X 10.6.8 also . I 'm not sure if this works in earlier versions , but here are the steps to make this happen : For the sender : Create a new Group in Address Book either using the File > New Group menu item , or by clicking the button on the Groups panel : Click on All Contacts to view all your contacts . Find the contacts you want to add to the list and drag and drop them from the list of contacts on the right to the new list you created on the left . Once you have added all the contacts to your new group you need to send the list to your friend . You can create a new email message and drag the name of the group from the list in Address Book and drop it on a the email message to send the list . Or , you can select the group and use the File > Export > Export vCard ... menu item to export the list , and attach the resulting file to an email . For the recipient : The key to making this work is to create a new group first and then dropping the vCard on that group . Create a new group in the OS X Address book , just like in step # 1 for the sender , using either using the File > New Group menu item , or by clicking the button on the Groups panel : Drag and drop the vCard file sent to you on the new group which you created . Make sure the new list " lights up " as shown below : You will be asked if you want to import the new cards . ** If you are told there are duplicates , click " Review Duplicates " . If you are not told there are duplicates , click " Import " and skip the next step . If you have duplicates to review , Select the " Keep Both " option , and then click " Apply to All " ( if that option appears ) . This will create duplicates in your address book , meaning your original contacts will not be altered and you can delete your friend 's copies later if you want to . The new group you created will be an easy way to find the new duplicates should you want to delete them later . You now have a copy of your friends list added to your address book , without altering any of your cards . You can compose emails to this entire group ( remember to use BCC ! ) if you want . If you want to delete the list ( and the duplicates ) later , you can select the group on the left and press the delete key on your keyboard . You are then presented with the option to delete the actual cards as well as the group , which will remove any duplicates you might have created in the previous step :
You can do this without having to install any additional apps or software . Just use the command and the free geo ip website <URL> . Execute the following command in Terminal ( I am using Apple 's IP for this example ) : You will get your results in an XML format : You can even issue the same command using the domain name instead of the IP : Other Formats ... freegeoip.net also supports CSV , and JSON CSV : JSON :
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
In your case , the problem is the file system on the drive as opposed to how it is connected to your Mac . The drive is most likely formatted as FAT32 system . This is a typical partitioning format that is supported by practically all computers ( windows , linux and mac os ) . FAT32 limits file sizes to 4GB and device sizes to 2TB ( or 16 TB for 4 KB sectors ) . For you to be able to store a file greater than 4GB in size , you 'd need to reformat the drive to either ExFAT ( file size is limited to 16EB , or 16 BILLION TB ) or a MacOS partition format ( called HFS plus , file size limited to 8EB , or 8 BILLION TB ) . I 'd recommend the MacOS partition format for it 's reliability , but only if you 're working in a strictly Mac OS environment . HFS plus is NOT supported by Windows . If you need to transfer files between computers of various OSs , I 'd recommend ExFAT . Note : Changing partition formats WILL DELETE ALL DATA ON THE DRIVE , so make sure you back up all the data on the drive before you start . Back up all your files on the USB drive onto a secure location on your Mac . Open Disk Utility by searching it in spot light or opening it from / Applications/Utilities Select your desired drive on the left side . Go to the " Erase " tab . Choose your desired partition format from the drop down menu , and name your drive as you please . Click " erase " Restore the files back to the drive .
<URL> by Menial is a fantastic SQLite editor that can do what you 're looking for . You can buy it from their website or from the Mac App Store .
Here are the steps to save multiple images in Preview into a single multi-page PDF . Select all of the images you want in your PDF , right-click and choose open with Preview In Preview 's Sidebar drag the images into the order you want them to appear in your PDF Select/highlight all the images to be included in the PDF document ; otherwise only a single image may end up the PDF document Then from the " File " menu choose " Print Selected Images " ( or " Print ... " in recent OS X versions ) and then " PDF > Save as PDF "
end question
start question
Keyboard shortcut for Zoom style ?
I 've written an AppleScript script which toggles the Zoom style : You can use Keyboard Maestro or any other script launching app to run this script on a keyboard shortcut .
To change the shortcut of a service , run , open the plist , and change for example to Then restart to apply the changes . @ is command , ~ is option , and &amp; #x 8 ; is delete ( Windows backspace ) . Forward delete ( Windows delete ) would be &amp; #x 7f ; . The shortcut strings use the same format as in <URL> . To change a global shortcut set in the App Shortcuts section , run , open the plist , and change for example to Then quit and reopen applications to apply the changes . Application-specific shortcuts are stored in ~ / Library/Preferences / * . plist and ~ / Library/Containers / * / Data/Library/Preferences / * . plist .
You can set up a custom shortcut , for example a key , for that purpose . Open System Prefrences , go to Keyboard - > Screen Shots ( or navigate to the Screen Shot-options ) , and double click on the shortcuts you want to change to change them to the keys you use less frequently . If you have a huge keyboard like me , you can for example set the F5 and F6 to be the shortcuts . Here is a screen shot of the settings window where you set the shortcut ( captured with those as well ! ) The " Copy " - screenshots are the ones with Control + Shift .
The keyboard command for sleeping all displays is Control ^ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏ . This shortcut does n't put the computer to sleep , but only shuts off the display .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts and there will be various shortuc setups for almost anything . If you see something that is not listed , Make a service in Automator and add it as shortcut : Here you see the service in Automator . It ai n't always have to be an AppleScript . You can chose other services from the Menu on the left . And here is a screenshot of enabling the service and assigning a shortcut by double clicking the shortucts on right , and pressing a combination of keys . <URL> is a full tutorial on services and automation as a little bonus to the question .
By default , no , there 's no keyboard shortcut to activate Finder . <URL> can do this though :
<URL> will help you here . Though it has many features , one of it is grab and scroll , which is exactly what you need .
According to the apple website , there is no hide shortcut . Sorry . <URL> Sorry .
This will do the trick : Go to System Preferences / Keyboard / Keyboard Shortcuts / Applications . Click the + button . Choose All Applications , from the drop-down list . On the menu title field add the exact name of the menu bar item . Pick your keyboard shortcut and click Add . In case you overwrite the default Command + V shortcut , if the application lacks the Paste and Match Style option , paste will work as usual .
I finally found the answer to this . There are two types of Guest User mode in Lion : a ) Safari-only mode : This is the default setting if no Guest account is enabled . Therefore to turn this on , go to System Preferences / Users and Groups / Guest User , then uncheck " Allow guests to log in to this account " . Note : Under " Login Options " , " Display login window as : " must be set to " List of Users " or this will not work . b ) Snow Leopard-like Guest Account - a full guest account as in previous versions of OS X . This mode is enabled when " Allow guests to log in to this account " is checked .
Firefox uses <URL> files to define its user interface on all platforms . I just did a little poking in my Firefox.app 4.0.1 bundle : The XUL files are stored in . ( jar files can be unpacked with any Zip archive tool , or the command-line tool which takes options like . ) The relevant XUL file may be . See also the referenced DTD files for the definitions of the entities like . Since you 're editing the files anyway , you might as well add a shortcut there rather than changing the name to use the system shortcut customizer .
The shift modifier has been around for most animated sequences since at least Panther ( 10.3 ) . I do n't know that there was ever an official reason given but it 's widely assumed that it was built in at the request of Steve Jobs in order for him to highlight Expose ' as he announced it to the world at the 2003 World Wide Developers Conference . You can see this announcement here , with the slow motion effect being used for the first time around the 2:00 min mark . <URL> Given the crowd 's reaction I think it 's clear why Apple did n't remove it from the final version . It 's always been one of those little easter eggs that Mac users use to impress their PC using friends . So there you go , no practical purpose , just a bit of fun for Apple . You can also use shift to slow down most functions that have an animation . Minimizing windows , opening Mission Control , etc. .
As the other answers mention , by default there is no easy way to enter this symbol . You could <URL> as well ( none of the other answers so far mentioned that ) , but that 's another imperfect solution . If you need this ( or any other Unicode glyph ) frequently and want to be able to type it on your keyboard , <URL> . That way , you can assign a keyboard shortcut of your choosing to the ⌘ symbol . Using <URL> , for example , I can use ⌥ + Shift + C to enter ⌘ .
The shortcuts that can be set in System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Application Shortcuts are stored in and the property lists of applications ( like or ) . The shortcuts for services are stored in <URL> .
You can disable Smart Zoom by going to System Preferences → Trackpad → Scroll &amp; Zoom and unchecking the Smart zoom gesture .
Not built-in , but it is available through a no-restart extension called <URL> : Access Bookmark Toolbar items with a keyboard shortcut . The default is Control +1 -9 . Change it in the preferences . Note that you have to organize your bookmarks toolbar with up to nine of your favorite links at the beginning of the list to use it . There is no way to map a specific number to a specific link ( except by the order in which they appear ) . Note : In my use , I could not get Cmd +1 -9 to work because it 's used to navigate to open tabs . But it did work with Alt + Shift +1 -9 . I did n't use the default Control +1 -9 because that 's mapped to switching spaces in OS X and I did n't want to re-map it .
You can also set a shortcut of your choosing by adjusting Lion 's built-in keyboard preferences . If you go to System Preferences -- > Keyboard , one of the settings menus on the left side bar is for Launchpad &amp; Dock . Make sure the check box next to ' Show Launchpad ' is selected , then double click to the right under the listed shortcut to turn dock hiding on/off . You 'll see a data entry box selected , and you can then enter whatever shortcut you 'd like .
( At least on the Retina display MacBook Pro ) use the Power button the same as you previously used the Eject button . So Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power puts the display to sleep and Command ⌘ + Option ⌥ + Power puts the machine to sleep .
I just discovered that it can be done by switching to the adjacent workspace using Ctrl + Left ( or Right ) arrow . Update : After I restarted the OS ( or maybe created a new user , sorry not sure ) I noticed that when I switch to new profiles they are now created under the same app group so I can do again Cmd + tilde . Update 2 : I just discovered that the green maximize icon now in Yosemite will now full screen the app . The shortcut to maximize the length and width of the app window can be found in this question <URL> ⌥ + ⇧ + Click on green or outer right icon ( plus icon )
Command + Tab until you get the app 's icon . Before releasing Command , press and hold ⌥ ( option ) .
end question
start question
Is there a way to make the iTunes Store faster in Windows ?
No . The only way to speed up iTunes is to get a faster PC or Mac . It 's a bloated program with a lot of legacy code in it . It 's been needing a complete overhaul for years now ( even on the Mac ) . And as time passes , it just seems to get bigger as more is continually added . With that said , the speed of iTunes is dependent on your Internet connection but it 's also dependent on the power of your PC . Having broadband allows data to transfer quickly from Apple 's servers but crunching all that data requires CPU cycles and a lot of RAM too .
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
<URL> including <URL> is a collection of useful scripts that you can run from the Finder or the command line . Of course they all use iTunes to process data , but you might find it more convenient than having to use iTunes ' GUI and mouse commands to convert files .
That 's actually pretty easy , you just double click the icon in the Menubar .
No , iTunes will not " listen " for music in a given folder ( like the popular BT program Transmission , which will load torrent files once they 've been downloaded to a given directory ) . You have to manually add music by dragging it in the iTunes window or going through the file menu ( CMD + O ) . However , you could achieve what you are after perhaps with some voodoo in Apple Script . Or simply sort the contents of your music folder by " date added " ( provided you are using Lion ) and manually add the songs as they arrive . But then if you are going through all this trouble of manually managing files , you may wish to ask yourself , " why " ? It might be less of a burden to just let iTunes do its thing ( like it was mentioned before , you can tell iTunes to copy the music anywhere you like , on any drive connected to your system , even on a network ) than micro-manage a bunch of files .
I posted about this on the Google Groups for iTerm2 . The program author has now added to the program the option to rotate clockwise .
you are right changing the names may have unforeseen consequences later . You can make a new folder somewhere . Named Apps . Or what ever you want to name it . Then create alises to the applications Placing the aliases in the new folder . You can name the aliases what ever you like and have the new folder in the dock . 1 , Create the Aliases . Drag Applications to your new folder . They should automatically choose to be alias files because you are dragging from the Applications folder . The cursor should become a curved arrow while you are dragging . If not then hold down the alt + cmd keys to make the copies allies files . 2 , Now rename the alias files what ever you want . This will not affect the real files . I have just named some of them here 3 , Place the Folder in the Dock . And now when you go to it the Alias file will look like the real apps . Have your names and open the real apps . You can Also just place any of the Alias files directly on the Dock .
The programmatic and direct feedback channels to Apple and the developer are as follows : Report a problem from the purchase summary in iTunes on a computer . This also is useful if you wish to ask for a refund in the case where the app was paid and does n't function in your judgement . There is a general problem link in the store as well as a link to developer support . These are best for technical or minor bugs that do n't ruin the app experience or if you expect it to get fixed and continue to use the app . You can write a formal review that Apple may eventually publish detailing why you feel the app is buggy or non-confomant with design guidelines or rules . You can rate the app in stars Those three procedures are standard ways to provide feedback about buggy apps or problematic purchases . Deleting the app sends less formal feedback as your devices stop asking for updates to that title .
Yes ! You only need to enter from safari and not from the app . You choose the song you want to listen to , press the home button , swipe up to multitask and press play !
Create the new playlist . Select all songs in the playlist and create duplicates ( here : AAC version ) of them . Rename the Album title for all tracks and set the song order via the Get Info menu entry . Burn the playlist and remove it . You are save to remove the newly created Album in the iTunes Library ( here : Testalbum ) because you created duplicates earlier .
After doing some research , I finally found where they were located , and then figured a quick way to get back to them . The files themselves are stored in hashed folders under . I then created a Smart Folder using this path , and then selecting Kind as " Image " . This then provides me with a directory with just the images in Photo Stream , outside of their folders . I also verified that this was working on a machine where iPhoto did n't have Photo Stream enabled itself , the only Photo Stream part was enabled in System Preferences . Therefore , it was syncing on its own , and not with a relation to iPhoto having to launch to trigger it . You ca n't into a smart folder , but it looks like I can use some actions with it it . I moreso wanted a direct folder , so I could copy stuff out quickly .
You will have to edit the files with a text ( or xml ) editor . First make a backup of the app ( especially for Finder ) , then go into the bundle contents and find the or . This will probably be in the folder . Most likely , this file will be called . However , Finder 's is and some apps , like Firefox , wo n't have one at all . The nib file can be converted to XML with . Then you can open it in the text editor of your choice . Just command ⌘ + F ( or control ⌃ + S ) for the menu name you want to change . It should look something like this : Edit the string at the top . This is actually the Interface Builder connection between the menu item of that name and the Objective-C selector/method that it calls . Save the nib and relaunch the application ( with Force Quit or for Finder ) and you should have the different name showing up .
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
If you DO want to jailbreak , <URL> works great for this . You can have blacklists , whitelists , lists just for SMS , lists that occur during a certain schedule ( say work hours ) , multiple lists active simultaneously , and different actions for different lists , etc. . So you could use it to ignore some calls , some some calls straight to voicemail , and ignore other calls while automatically sending that number an SMS that says " At work , will call you back tonight " etc
You could convert them all to ePub using <URL> . Add the ePubs to iTunes and they should sync with iBooks . As not all PDFs are formatted the same , some will show the generic cover while some will show the first page when converted to ePub . You can change the cover art for each book individually in iTunes , by selecting the book > Right click > Get Info > Artwork .
For broadcasting the video , you can use <URL> . It will allow for live interaction during the broadcast over chat . <URL> .
Yes , Greasemonkey or " User scripts " were the ones that popularized this . For one option on Mac/Safari , please see <URL>
So let 's go through the options here : No effect . <URL> It auto hides . <URL> Yup , auto hides too . <URL> Guess what ? : / While searching around though , I found a great deal of people asking how they force the bar to autohide . It 's a <URL> in editorials as well , and seems to be the one constant of all the Safari extensions . After an extensive search - what you 're looking for does not exist at this time :( Hardly the first time Apple has taken away control from a user , either ... Tl ; dr : Apologies , but it 's time to let it go - it 's gone . <URL> HOWEVER ... One of the extensions I found is open source and appears to be easily editable . Specifically , <URL> , and by removing a line of JS , I can force the bar to stay on the screen , and replace it with blank text ( so it looks correctly ) . Here 's the thing , it 's still just an overlay on top of the page , it 's not a part of the safari " window " as the old status bar could be , and does n't show all of the same information either . <URL> <URL> . You can see the <URL> as well . Installing this requires jumping through an extra hoop since I 'm not a registered Apple dev , so here 's what you need to do . Download and extract the package . In Safari , go to Preferences - > Advanced Check the " Show Develop menu in menu bar " box In the newly added menu bar item , click on " Show Extension Builder " Click on the plus sign in the bottom left of the new window and hit " Add extension " Navigate to where you unzipped the . safariextension folder Accept the security warning Reload any open webpages Usual disclaimers apply , your mileage may vary , void where prohibited , kids eat free , etc. .
By default , no . What I 've done is drag folders I access frequently to the Places section in the left side bar . There is software to accomplish this though . <URL> does this , and more . If you 're in a save dialogue you can press / to get a file path dialogue , or press ⌘ + Shift + G to get a " Go to folder " dialogue .
Two possible answers ... Assuming you 've not actively deleted them from iTunes as well as from your iPhone ... Upgrade to iTunes 10.x if you have n't already Plug your iPhone into your Mac , open iTunes , sync it . Click on the iPhone in the side bar and go to the Apps tab You 'll see that some apps are checked and others are not . This is an indicator of whether or not they 're installed on the device . Pretty sure this got introduced in iTunes 10.x ( hence the first step ) Assuming you do n't delete your old emails ... ( e.g. Archive in GMail ) The iTunes store should have emailed you summaries of the apps you 've purchased ( even the free ones ) shortly after their ' purchase ' , so , if you have an email account where you 've kept those emails , you could search through them to get a list of each app you 've purchased from the iTunes store .
end question
start question
What is the OSX equivalent to Window 's AppData folder ?
This kind of data is frequently stored in . User-specific settings are frequently stored in Your Chrome profile is located at . I recommend going on a little exploration of the ~ / Library folder ; there 's a lot of useful stuff in there .
What I was looking for turns out to be the <URL> called The <URL> that along with <URL> forms the <URL> of the OSX . <URL> seems to be the interface that routes requests from applications that use the X11 framework to the Quartz Compositor .
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
Unfortunately it does n't appear to be possible , or at least straightforward . As an alternative , you may want to consider creating an OS X Service that opens Google Translate in a browser window , for any highlighted word or phrase you have selected . If this sounds suitable , follow the procedure below : Creating a translation Service Open the app from your folder Select as the type of document and click In the window that appears , click the search field and type ' AppleScript ' Drag and drop the action from the list on the left into the area labelled ' Drag actions or files here to build your workflow ' Copy the script below and paste it into the action : Your window should look like the following : <URL> There are three values that you may want to change in the above script : - the language used for the page interface - the source language - the destination language Change one or more of these to achieve the desired translation . To find the correct language parameters , refer to the <URL> . In the example above refers to , and to Chinese ( Simplified ) . After making your changes , click > and in the panel that appears type a suitable name ( e.g. ) . Using the translation Service After saving your workflow above , you can make use of your translation service with one of the following two methods : 1 . The Service Menu method Highlight a word or phrase in any application Click the Application Menu to the right of the Apple icon ( ) , then click and ( or the name you gave your Service when saving it ) : <URL> 2 . The Contextual Menu method Highlight a word or phrase in any application Right-click the text and select then ( or your custom named Service ) : <URL> Whichever method you use , a browser window should appear with your translated text : <URL>
Right-click or Control + click on the Documents folder in the Finder , and click ' Make Alias ' . You probably want to move the alias somewhere else and rename it " Documents " . Then , drag the Documents alias into the Dock . Voíla , a link to the Documents folder instead of a Documents folder stack .
great question ... I 've been looking for a tool that will allow me to emulate TouchCursor for Windows on the mac for a long time . Tried <URL> , DoubleCommand , and some others that I ca n't remember right now :) KeyRemap4Macbook seemed to be closest to what I needed , but I could never get around to configuring it how I wanted it . Your mileage may vary . Check out <URL> that gives some of the aforementioned programs and start playing :)
Command ⌘ + Option + Esc opens the " Force Quit Application " dialog , which lets you select and kill running applications . If that does not work , Command ⌘ + Option + Shift + Esc held down for 5 seconds kills the foremost application .
It really depends on the application , so there is no correct a ) or b ) solution that would encompass all your apps . Many Mac apps are ' installed ' by the simple expedient of copying the app from a disk image to the Applications folder . So long as your new install uses the same Apple ID as your old &amp; / or you have any required activation keys , all is good . The issue arises with apps that needed to run as an Installer , asking permissions to modify System items , install background processes etc. . For those you will need to correctly re-install . I guess empirically , the ' suck it &amp; see ' method might be the simplest ... ... copy the Applications folder across , see which ones work ... [ avoid copying any default Apple Apps ]
On my Mac ( running 10.7 Lion ) , there 's already a default shortcut for this , ⌥ ⌘ 1 ( optioncommand1 ) . You can access the Clean Up By menu under the Finder 's View menu , which will show the shortcuts assigned : Note that this option is only available on the Desktop or a Finder window in Icons mode ( not List , Column or Cover Flow modes ) . If you do n't have shortcuts assigned by default , <URL> .
Yup , you are safe to delete it , just as long as you did n't add anything important to it .
May be able just create a simlink to the / User directory . To do this , open up Terminal and enter : You 'll want to move your original Users folder out of the way ( rename it or move it or whatever ) . * Where [ SeperateDrivePath ] is the path to your volume just underneath the cloned / Users folder . Probably something like / Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name / . In this case , your clones / Users should exist at/Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name/Users .
No , because iOS 7 <URL> for syncing media ( and firmware updates ) .
udev does n't exist on OS X . As an alternative , you can use the command to continuously monitor disks being mounted or ejected . The man page says Continuously display system-wide disk manipulation activity as reported by the Disk Arbitration framework until interrupted with a signal ( e.g. by typing Control-C ) . This can be useful to watch system-wide activity of disks coming on-line or being ejected , volumes on disks being mounted or unmounted , volumes being renamed , etc. . Whilst running the above command and plugging in ( then removing ) my WD Elements USB drive , I get this output , which could be parsed ( even though the man page says not to ) to find , say , and to get the volume name and when the disk was added and removed .
Zenmap can Absolutely provide NetBIOS names ( the names you are referring to ) . Furthermore , you can tweak the nMap scan to only scan for up IP addresses , and NetBIOS details , which should really significantly reduce the scan duration . Furthermore , it should , if you are willing to fall back to the terminal , be possible to make it update pretty rapidly , maybe every ~ 30 seconds . For example , with the Zenmap command of : Note : I use the IP prefix . in your case , this will likely be The is the netmask . In this case , it causes nMap to scan everything from - . To use , you just paste the line above into the " Command " entry box in Zenmap Here is a scan of my LAN : As you can see , it has resolved the information for all computers on my LAN that are reporting NetBIOS information . It also did all the above in ~ 9.4 seconds . I did this on my windows computer because my mac ( Apparently appropriately named iCrap , as you can see in the scan results ) is freaking out at the moment , and I can not restart it because I have some big file transfers in process . Nmap is platform agnostic , so the platform on which you do this scan should not matter . I did test this on the mac from the command line only , and it worked fine there too ( well , it did trip the flood protection on my managed switch , but that 's another issue ) . I 've edited the MAC address out from the scan . I can add more information on how to set this up to scan continuously from the command line , if you would like . You can see more information on the script that I am using to query NetBIOS information <URL> . The nmap <URL> is also very useful , for understanding what is going on .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
This function does n't exists in . It does n't exist within either . It might be really usefull to read log files with very long lines or output of commands as . The wrapping render them unreadable . I suggest you to fill a feedback about this function on : <URL> To make it a winning improvment proposal I suggest you to ask for an horizontal scrollbar so as to be able to display the text which is beyond the right border .
Once you 've installed it ( I used Macports ) your file should look like this , at a minimum : The command opens the default GUI application for whatever it 's passed . In this case it 's passed a http : / / URL so it opens it in the default browser .
This is n't the answer you want but it 's the answer you should listen to : iMessage is n't designed for sending huge long messages . Write an email instead . But if you really want an answer the max characters is 18996 but the catch is that iMessage on OSX ( 10.10.5 ) wo n't let you paste in a single block of text that big . Try breaking up and pasting in smaller 1000 character chunks if you must use this platform to send large amounts of text .
I recommend <URL> which lets you set up macros with various actions that can be triggered with keyboard shortcuts or other triggers .
Here is the Mountain Lion end user license agreement that is your best starting point for what Apple feels it has actually sold you for your money . <URL> Of course , you 'll want a lawyer to give you advice on what is customary , but the artwork is n't explicitly called out as something you are prohibited from using commercially . However , you would want to be very sure of trademark infringement issues if a reasonable person would recognize that you are re-using Apple 's works for commercial benefit . I personally would steer clear of using this and pay someone to provide you with your work or grab thing that are shared more explicitly under a creative commons license . Apple does indicate that you can use fonts under some restrictions ( make something with them - do n't just resell them ) and you will see in the application specific licenses that in general you do n't get intellectual property rights to any assets included in the software unless it 's called out explicitly as done for <URL> . The obvious uses like loops for music software are given knowledge base articles , but items like wallpaper do n't get an article and you are expected to be able to read the license and perhaps between the lines of what the licenses do n't say . Basically , you probably have n't been granted the right to re-use the assets , so use common sense if you do n't know it 's OK or have asked for permission to use it . You might find out that Apple has licensed these and you can use them , but I do n't see any wording to call this out in the license terms .
end question
start question
Is Lion server really a valid server for small business ?
I 've never tried any of the Mac Server products . But AnandTech has a pretty good <URL> . A few of the conclusions : ... server administrators will be happy to know that , in spite of its deeply cut price and consumer-friendly distribution method , Lion Sever stacks up favorably against Snow Leopard Server . and OS X Server is most useful in a handful of different scenarios : the first is that you have a small network that 's in need of a full-featured but easy-to-manage and simple-to-license server product . The second is that you 're managing a network of any size that used to be all-Windows , but hosts a growing number of Macs ( this is often the case in education , for example ) - OS X Server knows that it 's going to be finding its way into a lot of Windows houses , and as such it integrates fairly well with existing Active Directory setups . The last is that you have a bunch of iOS devices flooding your network and you have no idea what to do with them - iOS management may be Lion Server 's ace in the hole . ( emphasis mine ) Seems to fit your intended usage pretty well . About your other question : Besides , and this is a bonus question , do you have some experience in using Lion server to manage centralized Xcode development ? ( we currently use our own MacBooks and we keep in sync using Git , I 'd like to know for different approaches based on OSX Server ) . Keep using git , use the OSX server as central repository ( maybe consider buying <URL> or using an free/open source alternative for managing your git interaction ) . Install a CI-tool ( <URL> or similar ) on the server and use it to create automated builds . Should work quite nicely .
<URL> will let you add custom URLs ( including ShoutCast server URLs ) to your bookmarks list and stream from them . It will also keep your playlists in sync across multiple devices , record streams for , find local streams using your current location and more . You but it <URL> . And when you 're at your Mac , you can use their browser-based desktop app to keep listening and access your bookmarks . To add a ShoutCast server as a custom URL use : Where : is the IP or host name of the machine hosting the ShoutCast server is the port where ShoutCast is broadcasting on the server is the name of the stream from ShoutCast is the number of the stream Once you add the custom stream to your bookmarks it should be available from any TuneIn Radio application or their web app .
Yes pretty much anything that can do a boot-able backup of Mac OS X , should be able to do a back up of Mac OS X server . There are very few differences between Mac OS X , and Mac OS X Server , as demonstrated by how apple does Lion Server . Download and install Lion Download and install Lion Server Apps So in this case and as always with OS X server Apple just adds some more Applications that the client version lacks . Additionally , <URL> confirms it works with Server .
I found that clicking the tab once selects the tab and moves the cursor to the chat box . A second click on the tab selects the tab , then you can press the delete key to delete the tab .
Mac OS X Server is designed for remote " headless " administration and even initial setup . Server Admin included with the <URL> provides a GUI interface for server administration tasks as well as the ability to screen share the server desktop remotely . Apple provides a guide : <URL> .
Microsoft has officially released Skype for Business for Mac on October 26th , 2016 . You can find the official download link here : <URL> If you are using Homebrew ( and Cask ) , you can install Skype for Business for Mac with the following commands :
Yes , there is way . And since you 're already jailbroken , it 'll be so much easier . Just open up Cydia and search for <URL> . It 's from the ModMyi repository , which comes preconfigured with Cydia . It allows you to select the DNS server to go through when using a cellular data network , and it does it right from the Settings app .
<URL> that can connect and manager a MSSQL Server . Their apps are available on the Mac App Store as well . I have used their MySQL edition , as well as their lowest-cost option , Essentials ( I think they used to have a free version ) . While I have n't used it for all of the items you have below , it was great for some simple table management tasks .
<URL> Visual Boy advanced should work on Mac . I have n't personally tried it out , but if it 's at all as good as their program for PC you 'll be set . Best of luck
It uses <URL> . But that 's a bit of a marketing term in so much as there is not one single thing called Quartz , but a group of things that work together to make the system called Quartz . Specifially , Quartz encompasses the set of systems needed to do rendering ( Quartz 2D ) , font management , graphics card interaction ( Quartz Compositor ) , OpenGL support , 3D acceleration and what not . The Quartz Compositor is the piece of the Quartz bundle that provides the server and window compositing and management features normally performed by the XServer and XClient pair . An addendum to this question might be : why did n't Apple just use X11 and the X Server ? And there 's <URL> from one of the primary Quartz developers : What Apple is providing is an Apple-original window system that is graphics model agnostic , as well as a vector drawing system that maps very well to PDF , which is a sort of PostScript without the non-graphical operators . This is packaged under the name ' Quartz ' for easy reference by Marketing types . The window system is designed to support both buffered ( like an offscreen PixMap ) and unbuffered windows , and is graphics model agnostic , working equally well with QuickDraw , OpenGL , the Quartz drawing engine , X11 , and third party solutions , and managing window geometry for the Classic , Carbon , and Cocoa environments . The server portion is a hybridization of screen arbiter and compositor models ( and if that 's all Geek to you , do n't worry about it ) . The Quartz drawing engine supports drawing primitives similar to the graphics primitives that might be found in the DPSClient single-operator primitives library for X and NeXTSTEP . There are no math and flow control primitives , as these can be done more efficiently in the native compiled code . There are no DPS or PS wrappers , as this optimization for server-side graphics is not needed in the Quartz client-side graphics model . The operations provide imaging and path construction and filling operations as well as some interesting other bits that map well into the direction that 2D drawing is headed . ( See Longhorn , or the X raster projects . ) The drawing engine can output to rasters ( like a window ! ) , as well as PS and PDF streams to feed printers . The Mac OS X printing system takes advantage of the capabilities of Quartz to support all sorts of printers , and make the life of printer driver developers much , much easier . Things we 'd need to add/extend in X Window software ( protocol + server + manager + fonts + ... ) : Extend font server and services to vend outlines and antialiased masks , support more font types , handle font subsetting . Extend drawing primitives to include PS-like path operations . Add dithering and phase controls . Add ColorSync support for drawing and imaging operations , display calibration Add broad alpha channel support and Porter-Duff compositing , both for drawing in a window and for interactions between windows . Add support for general affine transforms of windows Add support for mesh-warps of windows Make sure that OpenGL and special video playback hardware support is integrated , and behaves well with all above changes . We find that we typically stream 200 Mb/sec of commands and textures for interactive OpenGL use , so transport efficiency could be an issue . So , yes , it looks like we can use X for Quartz . All we need do is define extensions for and upgrade the font server , add dithering with phase controls to the X marking engine , add a transparency model to X imaging with Porter-Duff compositing support , make sure GLX gets in , upgrade the window buffering to include transparency , mesh warps , and really good resampling , and maybe augment the transport layer a bit . Ummm ... There does n't appear to be much code left from the original X server in the drawing path or windowing machinery , and it does n't appear that apps relying on these extensions can work with any other X server . Just what did we gain from this ? Oh , yeah . My mom can run an xterm session on her desktop now without downloading the Apple X11 package , a shareware X server or buying a software package . Been there , evaluated that .
So it 's been a long time since I originally posted this question . I did n't update my RAM ( although I 'm thinking about it ) , but I changed my hard drive to a Samsung SSD . The change is radical . The computer is not slow at all anymore . There are no more " freezing " , and it takes exactly 15 seconds to boot , instead of something like 1 minute or more . Any application opens almost instantly . It seems like I just bought my mac . If you want to speed up your mac ( or PC ) , you should definitely buy an SSD . I also did a clean install and copied whatever I needed from a backup . As I said , I 'm thinking of adding some RAM . I currently have 4GB but I want to buy 8GB or 16GB . I 'll let you know then , if it works or not . Please upvote this answer so that everyone can see it !
No the Messages app wo n't work as an IRC client . You have to use another app . <URL> you can find a list of good apps supporting IRC .
You mean use the partition as a USB drive on an external scanner ? If you start the computer in target disk mode and plug it into the scanner with a USB cord , this may work . If you 're running Mountain Lion or Mavericks , you can use Disk Utility to add a small , FAT formatted partition to your hard drive without erasing it or losing any data . Connecting that partition to an external scanner may prove to be trickier than installing drivers for a scanner .
What I was looking for turns out to be the <URL> called The <URL> that along with <URL> forms the <URL> of the OSX . <URL> seems to be the interface that routes requests from applications that use the X11 framework to the Quartz Compositor .
There does n't appear to be any file-type limitation . WebDAV file sharing is enabled in the new Server.app under the File Sharing Service . Click the share you want , and then check " Share with iOS Devices ( WebDAV ) . " There is n't anything specific about file types , and Server.app seems to treat WebDAV as just another file-sharing protocol .
I am basing my answer what your requirements are Web Development . Developing websites or web apps that typically run off a server ; typically Apache/PHP/MySQL Access the server remotely to edit/develop I belive this is much more than just screen sharing as you do n't want to share your screen , just the website you are developing for a client . You will need the following : Web service listening on the appropriate port Open/forwarded port on your router Dynamic DNS ( DDNS ) with the ability to update your record Web service listening on the appropriate port Typically , when doing Web Dev , this is Apache listening on the correct IP/Port . Assuming that you have just one network adapter , you have to make sure that Apache ( or whatever else you are running ) is listening so that other computers on your LAN can access it . If you can do this , then you are good to go for the next step Open and/or forward the port on your router So , you can get to your service from inside your network , but now it 's time to get to it from the outside . Determine your local IP . Using terminal , issue the command . The line should start off with . That 's your local IP address Forward HTTP traffic to that port . There are many routers on the market and each have different user interfaces , but they are all technically doing the same thing : taking traffic bound to your IP and port and forwarding it to an address you specify . You will have to check your user manual for the specifics on how to do this . But , basically , you are going to forward port 80 traffic ( HTTP ) to the IP address you found in step 1 . Next , you are going to want to test this out . Use a service like <URL> or <URL> to find your public IP . You can even type the search directly into <URL> and have it return your IP address . Once you have that , you need to browse to it . A smartphone NOT connected to your WiFi makes a good choice . Point the browser of the smartphone to the public IP address you just obtained . If you can see your page/application , your router is working . If not , you need to go back and make sure your port forwarding is set up correctly . Setup DDNS This is the final step . <URL> allows you to use a domain name to access your IP even though it changes . Many newer routers support DDNS in their firmware - you will need to check with your specific manufacturer and or model . Even if your router dose n't support DDNS , you are still in luck . All you need is a DDNS client to update your record and it can run on any computer on your network . For example , on <URL> , they provide a number of different clients you can on virtually every platform from Windows , to Linux and even iOS . So , what you will need to do is install one of these clients on your Mac server so that it can periodiocally update your DDNS record
You have to decide what you want in terms of storage , performance and OS since there is no option to have 2x1TB drives in the $ 799 model and there 's no option to have a 1TB Fusion Drive in the $ 999 model . Essentially , you 're paying $ 200 more to get OS X Server and for the ability to have a second hard drive ( doing it yourself is an option if you can follow guides on iFixit and have the tools and accessories required ) . Choose the $ 799 model with : A 1TB Fusion Drive - $ 250 OS X Server - $ 19.99 Total : $ 1068.99 ( but you 'll have a faster drive but half the storage space of the default $ 999 model ) . Choose the $ 799 model with the default 1TB drive : add another 1TB 2.5 " 5400 rpm drive - about $ 80 + ( approximate cost from newegg ) OS X Server - $ 19.99 The <URL> - $ 49.95 Total : $ 948.94 Hassle of doing it yourself : Priceless
There are several ways to accomplish this . Let 's list your requirements : Multiple Macs . Shared files between them . Wired network . Backups either online or local . Remote access to files . While OS X Server is certainly useful here ( especially if you wanted a VPN ) , it is n't necessary . Assuming all of your PCs are on the network , I would set up a NAS ( network attached storage device ) and locate my files there . Many NAS also have the ability to share files out remotely . Alternatively , you could load Dropbox , Box.net , or some similar service on each device , and share specific folders to each user account . This would allow you to more easily integrate devices external to your network into your file sharing system . Each such service offers varying tiers of free space , and you pay as you add onto them . An added bonus would be the ability to roll back file changes , or recover deletions ( at least DropBox has this feature . ) As with any setup , your mileage will vary .
Can you use VNC ( or ARD or some other remote desktop software ) to remote into a server to do development work ? Short answer is " yes . " However , it is a royal PITA . I use VNC to administer my OS X machines on my gigabit LAN and I can tell you that the lag is infuriating . Trying to do development work , I can only imagine it being a nightmare . What worked for my developers was that we had several MBPs that would float around the department depending on the project . For " quick " tasks VNC worked , but when they needed to be heads down on a project , they would check out a MBP and use it for the duration of their task . The main thing to keep in mind is that people like what they like - Mac/Linux/Win . The " hotelling " concept is a nice goal , but not feasible for devs who spend their lives in front of a monitor . Ensuring work is accessible anywhere is the reason we have a cloud and GitHub . These are areas you should investigate thoroughly before you spend time trying to re-architect your infrastructure .
The only application I can think of is <URL> ; its purpose is to use an iPone/iPod/iPad as mouse to control a Mac . One of its features allows to have some icons on the iPod/iPhone that invoke some applications on the Mac ; by default , the icons shown on the iPod/iPhone are the ones that appear in the Dock , but you can select a directory containing the applications or the scripts you want to execute . The last screenshot shows the list of icons shown when I select a directory containing other directories ; when you hover over an icon , the application shows the icon name , in the same way the Finder does . The icons with an indicator light are running applications . The server application is available from the App Store , while the application for iOS is available from the iTunes App Store .
end question
start question
Apple TextEdit - where is the file being saved ?
Try pressing Command ⌘ while you left-click on the document window title text . It will show the folder hierarchy in a pop-up menu .
You have to purchase a credit review and have your credit approved in order to enroll in the program . That is the only cost to enroll . Be aware that this is for large companies that intend to sign an NDA , receive Apple confidential information and pay royalties for access to and/or participation in the program . The credit check is required so that Apple can ensure your company has the financial resources to bear the costs of participating in the program : From <URL> : Why do I need to complete a credit review ? A credit review must be completed in order to determine your company 's ability to meet the financial obligations associated with the MFi Program .
I believe that you 're not asking in the wrong place , you 're really not asking a question . What you define like " The Good Docs " is completely subjective . The guide you linked clearly says : Important : This document is intended for use by security professionals in sensitive environments . Implementing the techniques and settings found in this document impacts system functionality and may not be appropriate for every user or environment . If you 're using this guide , you should be an experienced Mac OS X user , be familiar with the Mac OS X user interface , and have experience using the Terminal application 's command-line interface . You should also be familiar with basic networking concepts . Some instructions in this guide are complex , and use could cause serious effects on the computer and its security . These instructions should only be used by experienced Mac OS X users , and should be followed by thorough testing . So clearly these " good " documents are not that good for everybody . In any case , Spotlight does n't index / System because that could be a security problem on its own ( it would need permissions to do that , a set of permissions that you do n't want to give to a userland daemon running all the time , with access to a UI ) . Why would a regular user want to keep an index of / System remains a mystery to me , it only has things that are for the System and not for the user to find and manipulate . You can , however , use the terminal to touch that if that 's what you want , but no user should ever attempt to land in / System , it can only break so many things ... Where did you get the idea that / System is the most important place to keep an eye on files ? Spotlight is a tool to keep an eye on files ? The place to keep an eye on files is in your very own / Users/YourFolder , because that 's all the access you should have ( to write that is ) . Spotlight is an indexing/searching tool , not a tool to monitor files that may seem suspicious in reserved system places . All in all , if you still want those docs , I 'm sure that most of them will be available in the developer 's area of Apple 's website . ( developer.apple.com ) . You can create a free account and start from there . On the other hand , if you are a " security professional " then you are using the wrong tools for your job . Spotlight is ok as it is , if anything , you might want to restrict it . I 'm sure that if you make spotlight run as root it will eventually index that , but of all the possible ideas that come to my mind , that is probably one of the worst security ideas ever conceived . There 's a reason why root user is disabled by default , there 's a reason for sudo and there 's a reason for normal accounts . Use them wisely , use them in peace .
Since Apple Configurator 2.0 they are downloaded in : and stored in :
By my reading , it does n't . Which rule do you think it violates ? Section 11 covers In-App Purchases , which Amazon 's app does n't use , and which are only required for " content , functionality , or services in an App " . Amazon does n't let you buy anything to extend their app . Amazon 's app also does n't allow purchasing ebooks , which is their only product ( AFAICT ) that might be covered by section 11 . They have a note at the bottom of all ebook pages that says " This mobile application does not currently support Kindle downloads , however you may add the item to your Wish List and purchase it using the browser on your device " . Finally , section 20 explicitly prohibits allowing the user to purchase a lottery ticket , which suggests that there is nothing unacceptable about other real-world purchases . Lots of other apps allow them , too , like eBay .
In the new Contacts Application for Mountain Lion there are no buttons for group management , only menu items . Under the File Menu , there are , , and menu items . When you have a group selected , under the Edit menu there will be a menu item available . To be able to select groups , you need to be in the proper view under the View menu : .
In one line , from Terminal : Make your changes , save and close .
It 's difficult to answer your question without more concrete examples of " all garbled . " But the answer is probably " no , there 's no one setting to make everything work out the way you want . " Since the two programs are very different , it 's challenging to get a one-to-one correspondence of document formats when you export out of Pages to . doc format . In general , my advice is that your exported . doc files will look closer to your Pages documents if you use Pages ' Word Processing mode , rather than its Page Layout mode . Mixing images with text , especially in a page layout fashion ( with text wrapped around images and the like ) , is especially problematic , since the . doc format is n't as well suited as Pages for that sort of thing . If you want your associates to see just what you are creating , you are probably better off to send them a PDF from Pages than to try to use . doc format . If they need to make changes/edits/comments to your work , I would suggest that you send them the initial text ( without inline images ) in RTF , then incorporate their changes into your Pages document by hand , then produce your final document in Pages and end up as PDF .
The answer seems to be yes . Check out the FILE section of <URL> In addition to that , shell paths are also loaded from and the files ( if any ) in by ( which is executed as part of ) .
It has moved to a little different location . To access the same screen , go to : Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud Usage > Manage Storage Moreover , iOS9 now has a search function inside " Settings " . A user can search for a term , such as " Usage " in the search bar to access the corresponding settings .
When you set up your export settings and clicked ' Next ... ' , a standard save sheet appears prompting you for a location to save the file . Wherever you selected as a save location will be wherever the file is . Once exporting is complete , the notification has a Show button which reveals the location in Finder . If you forgot the location and missed the notification , you can still reveal the location . Select the project in the Library viewer under the event where it is located . Show the Share Inspector using the button on the inspector toolbar . Click the reveal arrow next to the shared media , then select Reveal in Finder .
They appear to be part of the workflow , which means they would be saved wherever the workflow file is saved . This varies , depending on what kind of workflow you are creating . Services are saved in ~ / Library/Services Folder Actions are saved in ~ / Library/Workflow/Applications / Folder Actions Applications and Workflows are saved wherever the user saves them .
Change the default calendar to " last selected calendar " then clicking a calendar via the " Calendar " button pop-over will actually set the currently active calendar for new events .
MacBook 's do n't have the extended keyboard which contains the additional 7 function keys ( F13-F19 ) . They 're only on <URL> ( with numeric keys ) keyboard as presented on this photo :
Edit > Substitutions > Untick " Smart dashes " . Then relaunch " TextEdit " . Same with " Mail " . To your third q : It is simply more beautiful . Personally I do n't like when people type long dashes by using two short ones . A tip : you can type long one even with " smart dashes " disabled with Option + - ( short dash ) .
The iOS 7 agenda has n't been removed , but it 's not as intuitively easy to find . To see your agenda : In the month view , tap on any date to bring it to hourly view , then tap the icon ( bullets with lines next to the search icon ) this will allow you to toggle back and forth between hourly and agenda list view .
OS X will usually attempt to sync the password if you change it , but it 's possible to have them different . I have them differently right now , so that my old user password is required at the pre-boot screen , but once OS X is booted , I need to log in again with my new password . See more info in this answer : <URL>
The option you 're looking for is located at . Turning this off will send all messages individually to their recipients . Note : Disabling MMS Messaging will remove the Group Messaging toggle from the list . Note : Some cellular service providers do not support Group Messaging , so if you have MMS enabled , and you still do n't see Group Messaging , then it 's likely that your provider does not support it . From Apple : <URL>
Yes . It 's the only place where the AirPlay Mirroring options can be accessed . Of course , AirPlay can also be accessed from the the player controls while playing a movie .
\ = Option ⌥ + Shift ⇧ + : { = Option ⌥ + ( } = Option ⌥ + ) You can display the layout in the Preferences ( Language &amp; Text - Input Sources - Show Input Sources in Menu bar ) .
end question
start question
How to Download to Computer a Voice Memo Received via MMS on my iPhone ?
Forward the MMS to your E-Mail . The Email client of your computer can then extract the attachment . In the SMS/MMS view , touch edit in the upper right-hand corner . Touch the circle to the left of the audio clip ( s ) you want to keep or send to others . Touch forward at the bottom and then type in the email address that is linked to your phone , or touch the + and you can pick any of your contacts and send it to their cell/email .
Yes , it is possible . Numbers can be entered using the keyboard . The correct tones will be produced and transmitted on your Yosemite Mac .
Simply turn off voicemail for calls to google voice using the web interface for that google voice number . If you activated the carrier settings like in the image below , click the instructions to reverse those changes with the carrier . You could also call your carrier for help since it 's a feature that has different commands on a per-carrier basis . They will be most familiar with their settings and order to undo the change if Google does n't help undo it . Without your carrier forwarding all calls to Google , you can still keep Google Voice and have both voicemail systems separate . That will simply forward the call and let the iPhone and carrier handle the voicemail . Lastly , you do n't have to delete the google app for this to work , but that might make things simpler if your wife does n't want to call out using the Google Voice number anymore .
Presently there are n't any known Viruses for iOS . The security exploit that you mentioned , the PDF exploit and the TIFF image exploit before it , were patched shortly after the exploit was made public . Is it impossible for a virus to sneak through ? Absolutely not , though if you 're running the most recent iOS release the chances you 'll get a virus or have your iOS device be exploited are extremely unlikely . There 's a large community of people who actively seek exploits for non-malicious reasons ( Jailbreaking ) , and Apple is always quick to patch the security hole . As a rule of thumb , for iOS and other operating systems , keep your device up to date via the built in update mechanisms and you 're exposure to security vulnerabilities will be quite low . In fact , the most recent iOS update 5.1.1 included a <URL> . Though this is n't a virus , it 's an example of the cat-and-mouse game that Apple and the security community continually play .
I 've had the same issue , when I had connectivity issues - you 're right , it never does appear to resume . You can get the update file directly from <URL> this site merely links to the correct location at Apple for the file you require &amp; so is safe to use Get the latest version for your device . This is not a way to downgrade your iOS , merely to fetch the current one by an alternative method . If you still have difficulty resuming , then use a separate downloader app , SpeedDownload for Mac or Wget for Windows , etc. . Launch iTunes . Plug the phone to your computer . Then , in iTunes , hold Opt [ alt ] when clicking the Check for Update button &amp; a file-picker will open instead . Find the file you just downloaded &amp; it will run from there as normal .
<URL> should allow you to copy the music from any iOS device ( jailbroken or not ) onto a Windows or Mac computer . See <URL> support article for more relevant information .
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
You may use the " service order " functionality of Network pref pane . Go to System Preferences > Network > Click on the gear bellow the network list > Set Service Order ... There you may choose the order of which the networks will be used .
You may want a second network adapter , but first try adding a second WiFi connection in the network preference pane . You could pick a static IP address that is valid , but outside the DHCP 's range ( or reserved and not assigned via DHCP ) . Then your iPhone could proxy against the static IP and set up IP forwarding from the command line . It would be easier to have a second interface and let the Mac software handle the routing for you . Also , be aware that firewalls should be off or configured to allow inbound traffic from the iPhone .
When you turn on the computer , put the disc in the drive with one hand , and hold down the option key with the other . This forces the Mac to look for ANY bootable media . If nothing comes up , the hard drive is blank ( as you suspect ) , and the ROM drive ca n't read the disc you are putting in ( or the ROM drive has failed ) . You can try creating a Mountain Lion USB key . Incidentally , what Mac are you putting this disc in ? A Mac Book Pro , an iMac ? What generation ? What CPU is in it ?
What you need to do to re-download the Lion installer is to HOLD down the OPTION/ALT key whilst opening the App Store and keep holding it all the way through to the purchased tab , from here you should see the option to install . Just download that .
No . This is not possible at this time without using a third party app . I use <URL> for this -- and other -- tasks .
You can use xattr . This copies the tags from file1 to file2 : The tags are stored in a property list as a single array of strings : If the kColor flag in com.apple.FinderInfo is unset , Finder does n't show the circles for colors . If the kColor flag is set to orange and the file has the red tag , Finder shows both red and orange circles . You can set the kColor flag with AppleScript : prints the value of the bits used for the kColor flag . Red is C , orange is E , yellow is A , green is 4 , blue is 8 , magenta is 6 , and gray is 2 . The flag that would add 1 to the values is not used in OS X. Edit : you can also use <URL> : tag can be installed with or .
Only the iTunes app is currently able to add songs to the Music app on an iPhone/iPad . This leaves you with the following options Play the songs in the Amazon Cloud Player only Download them on your main computer and sync via iTunes . Maybe remove them from the Amazon Cloud Player to save storage space
Import/Export works differently in Xcode 5 + . <URL> shows you how to do it . Your account is shown under Xcode → Preferences → Accounts , and can be exported by clicking the gear icon ( ) in the lower-left .
You are quite correct , you do n't want to sync your iPhone to this new Mac . At the least , you 'd lose any songs or movies you have loaded . You can do what you want using the iPhone Configuration Utility ( free at <URL> ) . Install , connect the iPhone , click on the iPhone 's icon , and go to the Applications tab . It will let you install or uninstall individual apps . Or connect your iPhone to WiFi ( you could use Network Sharing from the new Mac , if no other WiFi is available ) to download directly , after buying from either the iPhone or the Mac .
Yes , there is , using Karabiner 's command-line tool . Paste this into your : Obviously , you will need to change the name of the profile ( here it is NewItem ) . If you want to toggle between them with a single hotkey , paste it twice and change the name , then check the box for the profile you want to switch to on each one .
I would recommend <URL> - It 's a great terminal app and has this option to bind Left/Right option to meta ( or esc + sequence ) . Home and End work also as expected .
If you dropped your computer and it stopped booting right after that , you may now have a defective hard drive . I do not recommend attempting to re-install the operating system ( Mountain Lion ) , as this may cause data loss . My current recommendation is to confirm that you have a good backup of the data that is on your computer . If you do not have a backup , it may be necessary to attempt data recovery from the drive that is in the machine . If you do have a current/valid backup of your data , I would recommend attempting to boot from another disk ( CD/DVD , USB flash drive , etc. ) , and attempting to open Disk Utility to see if the software is reporting SMART failures with the drive . Alternately , very poor performance or clicking sounds while attempting to view/access the drive may be indicative of a defective drive . Regardless , at this point , a system re-install is not likely to help with your issues ( based on the problem description ) . If you are at all concerned about data loss , or are hesitant to attempt diagnosis/troubleshooting of your machine , I would recommend taking the machine into an <URL> for further assistance .
Yes , you can easily copy virtual machines between systems . The easiest way would be to just create the virtual machine on your linux machine , and when you are ready to copy it over , you can export it as an appliance . This will give you a single file to copy over to you Macbook Air . Once you have the file copied over to your Air , you can then import it there , and you will be all set to try it out .
end question
start question
Can I transfer backups when replacing a Time Capsule ?
<URL> Time Capsule , Mac OS X v10 .6.3 or later : How to transfer your back up from an existing Time Capsule to a new one For this process , you should leave your computer in the same room as the Time Capsules , or use one Ethernet cable to connect your Mac to the Ethernet port on the existing Time Capsule , then use another Ethernet cable to connect from the existing Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . Configure your Time Capsule for your network . See the documentation that came with your Time Capsule for information about setting it up on your network . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Slide the Time Machine switch to Off . Open a Finder window . Locate both Time Capsules listed in the SHARED section of the navigation pane on the left of the Finder window . Note : If you do not see your Time Capsules in that section , choose Preferences from the Finder menu and make sure " Connected servers " is checked under SHARED . Select the name of the new Time Capsule in the navigation pane . The default name is " Time Capsule xxxxxx " , with xxxxxx being the last digits of the ID printed on the bottom of the Time Capsule . Mount the volume by double-clicking the name of the volume in the Finder window 's main section . The default drive name is " Data " . Open a new Finder window by pressing Command-N , or by choosing File > New Finder Window . Repeat the previous 2 steps with the other Time Capsule , to mount it . Drag your backup disk image from the current Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . This can take some time to complete because your entire backup will be copied . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Click " Select Disk ... " , then select your new Time Capsule . Perform a Time Machine back up . After the back up , you can remove the Ethernet cables if desired and configure your wireless network to your liking .
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
This can be done by imitating the folder structure of a camera 's memory card . First , find a flash drive that 's compatible with the Camera Connection Kit ( i.e. does n't draw more than 100 mA ) . Create a directory in the root of the USB drive named . Inside create a directory that has exactly 8 characters . Put your picture/video files inside this directory , ensuring that they have an 8.3 pattern filename ( e.g. ) . You 'll end up with a directory structure that looks like this : USB drive root - \ DCIM - \ FAKECAM1 - \ pict0001.jpg - \ pict0002.jpg ...
If You Have a Time Capsule or an AirPort Extreme Base Station with Shared USB Hard Drive If you have either a Time Capsule ( which is basically an AirPort Extreme Base Station with a built-in 500 GB or 1 TB hard drive ) or an AirPort Extreme Base Station ( AEBS ) with an attached USB hard drive , you can share out the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive and make it accessible via the Internet . To do this : Start the Airport Utility . Select your Time Capsule or AEBS . Make a note of the IP Address shown on the right -- you will need it later . Click Manual Setup . Check your " Connection Sharing " setting under the Internet Tab . The following tutorial is valid if your " Connection Sharing " is to " Share a public IP address " , the normal setup for a home network . You will need to have a static IP address , or use a free dynamic DNS service . If you have a different type of " Connection Sharing , " you probably do n't need a tutorial to set up remote access to your disk ; adapt this one as needed . Click Disks ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click File Sharing . Select ( check ) the " Enable file sharing " checkbox and the " Share disks over Ethernet WAN port " checkbox . It is strongly recommended that you also set Secure Shared Disks to " With base station password " and Guest Access to " Not allowed " ; not making these changes may allow unauthorized users to access your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive . Click Airport ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Base Station . Enter a Base Station Password and verify it in the Verify Password box . Click Advanced ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Port Mapping . Click the plus sign ( + ) to add a new port mapping . In the Public UDP Port ( s ) and Public TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type in a 4-digit port number ( e.g. , 5678 ) that you choose . In the Private IP Address box , type the internal IP address of your Time Capsule or AEBS that you wrote down in step 2 ( for example , 192.168.0.1 ) . In the Private UDP Port ( s ) and Private TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type 548 . Click Continue . In the Description box , type a descriptive name like " Time Capsule File Sharing " or " AEBS File Sharing " . Then , click Done . When you have made all changes , click Update . Your Time Capsule/AEBS will restart . Once it does , you are now ready to connect to the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive via the Internet . To do this when your MBA is away from home : In the Finder , click Go > Connect to Server . Type in the correct domain name or external IP address for your network , plus a colon and the port number you specified in step 11 . For example , " www.myhomedomain.com :5678 " or " 123.123.12.123:5678 " . Click Connect . You will be prompted for your user name and password . The user name can be anything you like ; the password should be the password for the Time Capsule/AEBS which you specified above . Click Connect . Voilà ! You are now connected to your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive from your MBA . You can access files , copy files back and forth between your MBA and the hard drive , delete files , whatever you want , as long as your MBA remains network-connected . The next time you go to connect , it should go even more quickly ( especially if you save your password in your keychain , and if you add your home IP address/domain name to your list of Favorite Servers in the Connect dialog box ) . Note that the Time Capsule/AEBS will appear in the Shared section of your Finder 's sidebar as a server , with the Base Station Name of the Time Capsule/AEBS as the server name . Taken from <URL> Additional Info : I know port forwarding can be a big hassle so I thought I would add that you could also use apple 's built in " Back To My Mac " feature . This way you can access your Time Capsule 's files as well as accessing you home mac files and screen share with your mac over a secure connection . Try this article : <URL>
You should definitely try resetting the SMC , since it 's a known fix for fan issues . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
I can only give you an overview of my own personal experience with the process and hardware I used . Alot of this is copy pasted from my posts on <URL> on macrumors.com . Here goes : I bought the ebay optical bay caddy <URL> . Works great . Depending on your model , I would recommend using the " Optical Drive Replacement " guide on <URL> ( <URL> to my particular model , the mid-2010 15in ) . Once you remove the drive , you have to do a bit of ad-lib in order to install the caddy . The only issue with this caddy is that two screw holes on the outside facing part of the macbook case do not have a matching hole on the caddy . So the caddy is held in place by one screw on the innermost side . The screw hole that DOES exist on the caddy is actually not part of the caddy at all . You remove a little bracket from the superdrive and use the 2 screws it was secured with to attach it to the caddy in the same position . It seemed pretty wobbly to me so I just took 3 pieces of electrical tape , folded each one on top of itself once , and stuffed them into the spaces where the caddy had wiggle room between the other components and parts of the case . Problem solved ... the enclosure does n't move one bit inside the case . I think it might even dampen the noise a bit since it keeps the metal from contacting other metal bits . So , the important bits about the superdrive replacement : BACKUP YOUR DATA : probably the most important thing you can do before attempting this procedure If possible move your User 's directory to a separate volume before doing the upgrade : this will make it easier to clone your data later on ... for specifics see <URL> Follow an ifixit guide step by step and label your screws : i used one of those 2 week pill boxes and put labels on the days that corresponded the step number use good screwdrivers : I highly recommend the ifixit bit driver set as they all fit correctly and lessen the chance you will cause damage or strip your screws put your boot drive in the original HDD spot : otherwise you may have issues with sleep and hibernation make a bootable copy of your installation discs : put the OSX install DVD on a thumb drive or a partition so that you 'll be able to boot from it in an emergency without reinstalling the SuperDrive ( it may be possible to boot from the superdrive externally but I have n't tested this ) for info regarding installing your superdrive in an external enclosure , check out my answer to <URL> PROS You have the option of drastically increasing your storage space or using a SSD to dramatically speed up your OS X experience . My system boots from the SSD in about 15 seconds including 3 programs launching and about 7 or 8 menubar apps All of my data is located on my original 500GB HDD and is separated from my boot volume in case of OS or disk failure did i mention it 's lightning fast ?? :P CONS have to cart around an external superdrive enclosure if you want to use cds or dvds a HDD in the caddy is definitely noisier than a HDD in the original slot . I have a feeling this could be mitigated by some noise dampening but I have n't really worried about it too much you 're pulling apart your MacBook so there is always some risk that you 'll break something through user error
Firefox <URL> is a shell scripts that will install all major versions of Firefox on OS X , and set up separate profiles so you can use them simultaneously . Currently it installs : Firefox 2.0.0.20 Firefox 3.0.19 Firefox 3.5.9 Firefox 3.6.28 Firefox 4.0.1 Firefox 5.0.1 Firefox 6.0.1 Firefox 7.0.1 Firefox 8.0.1 Firefox 9.0.1 Firefox 10.0.2 Firefox 11.0 Firefox Beta Firefox Aurora Firefox Nightly Firefox UX Nightly You can set it up so it only installs the specific versions you want . Optionally , the script can install Firebug for each version of Firefox too . It will also set icons that contain the version number : Safari For Safari , check out <URL> . Chrome/Chromium For Chrome/Chromium , install any version you want , change the app name from to e.g. for clarity , then <URL> for that version . Opera Download old Opera versions here : <URL> IE Get VirtualBox and then run <URL> . It will automatically download legal Windows images for testing purposes and set up virtual machines for every IE version you need .
It is not officially supported . " <URL> " This is usually because of issues with the network file system not guaranteeing that writes have completed on disk before giving a " success " status .
Yes . Per default , it will be indexed . You can opt-out any location in ... System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Spotlight & #x 2192 ; Privacy If you add and remove a location in the privacy tab , it will be re-indexed . Also see Apple 's support document <URL> .
Yes - once you have things set up - Windows , iOS and Mac will all see the Time Capsule even when it 's not running the network and your router still handles routing . Of course it depends on how you set up the Time Capsule since out of the box , it will want to be a router and you could hook things up in a troublesome manner unintentionally . The time capsule has a firewalled connection ( The WAN port ) that if you use , you have to tear down several settings to allow someone from " outside " the network to see the drive . The Time Capsule has several internal ethernet ports as well as potentially joining the network over WiFi which would n't be firewalled . I would set up the Time Capsule in bridge mode so it does n't turn on DHCP/NAT , etc and connect to your router if possible over ethernet to one of the <URL> . The ports you want look like this : As long as it 's in bridge mode and you connect over WiFi or a LAN port , everything should be fully functional and all Macs and PC will see the Time Capsule as if it were running the network . It might also function for <URL> and other nice to have items - but that also depends on the router settings .
You are right about iTunes showing great signs of strain . It was designed for a pretty simple task that now overwhelms it with too many functions - it 's very un-Mac like due to how long it has taken Apple to kill it and reinvent all the jobs it does with better tools . Now - transferring purchases was really simple in iOS 7 and earlier . There was no family sharing , there was no app thinning , there was no just in time downloadable resources , iBooks was n't a separate app that can complicate things . I 'll try to explain how to make use of the tools , but you will probably spend some time trying things out and changing your workflow to accommodate the tradeoffs that were made in designing iOS and iTunes . Each class of data has a " sync source " so you could for instance , sync iBooks from Mac A , Apps from PC B and songs from Mac C . You are right that iTunes is designed to wipe old content from a previous sync source before switching to a new source . You can usually transfer or back things up , accept the wipe and then proceed , but I 've seen cases where you literally have to go get things again in this case . Especially when you do n't sync with multiple computers and instead software bug resulted in the system thinking the same iTunes was a different iTunes . You can get around this a little with a good backup - but pay attention to iCloud settings since if you skip backing up some things , you still have to re-download them .
Launch the AirPort Utility . Select the Time Capsule whose disk you want to erase . Hit the " Manual Setup " button . Click the " Disks " icon button . Click the " Disks " tab . Select the disk ( not a subvolume , the disk itself ) . Click " Erase ... " . Follow the dialogs from there .
To remove or move the Backups.backupdb folder open Terminal.app . Enter to change the working directory . has to be the volume name of your TM backup volume . Enter to show all folders . Usually you should see only one folder with the name 501 now : Enter to get super user rights . Enter to change the working directory and list the content of the folder 501 with . Now you should see the folder Backups.backupdb : Now you may either move the folder back to the root of the backup drive with : or remove the folder with If you are asked to override something ( e.g. ) enter and hit the return button . You may also add the option to skip confirmations . To delete a 30 GB backup in a virtual machine it took about 3 minutes . So depending on the size of Backups.backupdb some patience is needed .
If you want an exact copy of the TC drive , the fastest way is to connect the USB drive directly to the TC and use the archiving option in : Other things to consider : Transfering data over wire ( ethernet ) is faster than over Wi-Fi Connecting the USB drive directly to the computer ( than to the TC ) gives better results if you use the Finder to copy data .
I need the bundle identifier to be the same as the previous version of the app . I do n't have that same identifier . The identifier is transferred along with the app , so once the app is transferred you continue to use the old identifier which has been transferred along with it . Therefore you are free to submit updates as if you were submitting updates to the old app . Do I need to create a new provisioning profile ? Yes you will . You can do this from the Member Centre or Xcode as you would have done for the app on the old account .
Did you add your media to iTunes ? menubar - > file - > add to library Then restart iTunes .
The actual data is stored in a hidden directory called at the root of the volume . There is a special virtual filesystem type called which translates the raw data in these hidden directories into a virtual Time Machine drive which is automatically mounted on
<URL> details a way to do this . Basically you 'll create ( or modify ) the file and add a line similar to : The actual UUID will vary , you can find the UUID for your disk in : In Mac OS X Panther , Disk Utility and the diskutil command does n't display the UUID value . But if you look in the system.log file , when the disk is mounted , you can see something similar to this ( line breaks added for narrower display ) : FireWire HD / Volumes/FireWire HD ... localhost diskarbitrationd [ 87 ] : disk1s10 hfs F0E430C1-5558-3BB3-9FA9-6904B663FEEA Mac OS X Disc / Volumes/Mac OS X Disc The string before the volume name is the UUID for the disk .
tl ; dr - It 's safe to delete in whatever way you choose . The only conceivable problem would be if Time Machine was trying to prune a backup at the same time you were deleting , so maybe turn off Time Machine for the duration of your clean up if you 're not using the built in delete button . You can use in Lion to safely delete backups . The benefit of this is the deletion happens more silently in the background . The downside is the UI is n't speedy for deleting more than one snapshot at a time . In practice , you have to be there to attend multiple deletions . Do n't worry about the internals of how files are linked or stored - yes most of the files in most of the backups are hard links , but to clean these up , you have to delete things folder by folder . The system will handle decrementing the link count so there 's no better or worse way to go here . It is also safe to simply remove them via Finder or any other method - just be patient as each backup contains a full set of directory entries for each file . My ( worst ) record is 4 days to delete through finder a batch of unwanted backups . Good advice might be to start small if you ca n't leave your mac on overnight . You wo n't lose any data unless you are deleting the last copy of a version of some file . You do n't get any warnings , it will get deleted - this is the same whether you use Time Machine itself , or Finder or in some terminal script . As a brief aside - Why do you want to do this ? Time Machine automatically prunes old backups when you 're getting low on space . I 've found it very comforting to just clone my Time Machine drive to a cheap USB external drive and put it on the shelf . ( or make this the drive on the shelf and use it as an excuse to get a new drive ) Perhaps it 's the perfect pack-rat-keep-everything verses if-you-don ' t-need-it-now 's - the-time-to-delete-it test for Mac users .
I know you asked if it was possible over Bluetooth and although my research did n't turn up anything for non-jailbroken phones , here is a WiFi solution which you could use on an Ad-hoc network that would work effectively the same way . Non Jailbroken WiFi : <URL> iPhone to iPhone : <URL> Jailbroken <URL> ( Cydia )
end question
start question
Automatically move iOS app icons to fill empty slots on previous page ?
This is currently not possible within iOS . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
You can use an Automator workflow to download images embedded in a web page , or images linked from a web page . A good starting point for a workflow is : Get Current Webpage from Safari Get Image URLs from Webpage Download URLs You can change the workflow to use a list of web pages to fetch from . Automator is included with Mac OS X in the folder .
On your iPad device tap on Settings > Store . Under where it says Automatic Downloads , make sure that Apps is set to Off . This setting keeps apps from automatically downloading new purchases made on other devices .
This will be extraordinarily difficult to do at run-time , and with any document . The few solutions that have implemented this technology ( remembrance agent <URL> and Dashboard <URL> are probably the most notable and " successful " ) required specific search indexers for each type of application and up-front document analysis . ( Very much how you ca n't search in Spotlight while it is " updating " . ) For example , if you typed the word " from " , you would not necessarily want to see all of your email messages just because they all feature the word as part of their metadata . However , if you typed " Art Taylor " , you would expect to see email , chat , and other documents related to me . The problem is of summarizing the semantic content from the structural content . That 's why DEVONthink requires you to import the documents . It can summarize the documents and present results more or less in real time , because it has done the summarization up front . Spotlight does some of this as well , but no great context aware knowledge and memory augmentation applications have popped up that offer universal document support . If you google " knowledge augmentation " , you will find a large number of articles and papers on the topic . People are very interested in this and I think it is just a matter of time before someone attacks the problem with a commercial solution . Gordon Bell had a tantalizing project called " MyLifeBits " <URL> that was a little over the top , but IBM <URL> is doing some research on associative recall . Note the " Capture " and " Ingest " stages . The scope of both of these is much beyond simple document relationships . Years ago , I tried the DEVONthink " put it all in there " approach , and as you probably suspect , it was a disaster . Best of luck .
Go to to add a shortcut , select or add Numbers as the Application , and put " Fill Down " ( exact , no quotes ) in the command spot and then assign your shortcut ( Ctrl + D )
The only application I 've found that supports that on 10.8 is <URL> . It does n't create new spaces though . <URL> stopped working in 10.7
Apparently both Keychain 's files are in the same place in Both OS versions <URL> <URL> . . Copying all the folder 's content from one to another should do the trick .
The direct answer to your question is you will get marginally higher peak memory bandwidth with 6 matched memory modules running in triple channel mode than you will with 8 matched memory modules in dual channel mode . However , there are no guarantees that your machine will perform the tasks you use it for any quicker in either mode . You need a more in-depth analysis than that . Firstly , here are the <URL> . In summary , the instructions for your model go like so : Dual-processor computers have eight memory slots , four per processor . You can install 1 GB , 2 GB , or 4 GB DIMMs . Each processor 's memory controller has three memory channels . DIMM slots 1 , 2 , 5 , and 6 have their own channels ; slots 3 and 4 share a channel and slots 7 and 8 share a channel . For optimal memory bandwidth , all six memory channels should be used , and memory should be balanced across the six channels . Note : Populating slot 4 or 8 slightly drops maximum memory bandwidth , but depending on the applications used , overall system performance may benefit from the larger amount of memory . To determine whether you would benefit from more total RAM or from keeping your RAM in triple channel mode would require benchmarks . It 's difficult without measuring usage to say whether there will be any benefit from adding more RAM . If you run a compile with Activity Monitor running are you using all the RAM you have ? Is disk I/O particularly high ? If disk I/O is high but your RAM is not fully utilised you may be better off with an SSD hard drive to run your compilations from rather than adding RAM , check for paging to disk during the compile . The important thing here is to find the bottleneck rather than hoping that adding RAM will make things run quicker . It may even turn out that the CPU or the compiler is the bottleneck . If you have two 6-core CPUs , can your compiler use all that processing power ? I know I 've probably raised more questions than I 've answered but it 's worth considering them if you 're looking for a performance improvement for your investment . If you are a programmer you probably understand these concepts anyway but here 's a <URL> article just explaining the process of finding bottlenecks which I think is easy to read . The OS in this case is windows but the principles are the same . You can use Activity Monitor or a third party resource monitoring tool to determine the bottleneck . For example , to determine whether your system is running out of RAM , fire up Activity Monitor . Near the bottom of the window , select the tab button labelled ' System Memory ' and take a look at the pie chart and figures listed beneath . Here 's an example from my system . The figures in this screenshot you should be interested in are Free and Page Outs . Free shows how much RAM is currently available , Page Outs is an indicator that your system is running out of RAM and has had to write temporary data to disk . Anything above 0 in Page Outs means you could potentially benefit from more RAM . You could perform whatever activity you expect to push your system with Activity Monitor open and monitor these figures throughout . This should help you determine whether you will get any benefit from more RAM . For completeness , here 's what each item represents . Free : Memory not in use Wired : Data which must remain in RAM and ca n't be moved to disk Active : Data which is currently in memory and has been accessed recently Inactive : Data which is currently in memory but is no longer being used . For example , if you recently quit an application , its data is kept in memory for faster relaunch but it will be used by other application if you run out of Free memory . Used : The sum of Wired , Active and Inactive memory Here 's a really nice link too for Mac performance questions <URL>
Unfortunately , there is no easy way to scroll to the end of a document other than by swiping repeatedly . It would be nice if Apple could add a specific gesture for this common action . If enough people request this feature at <URL> maybe they will add it into a future version of iOS .
If you want to measure the speed ( bandwidth ) between your iPad and your PC , take a look at . It is available for computers and there are versions on the App Store for iOS too ( the one I use seems to have gone away , but searching the App Store for " iperf " reveals several possible options ) . You run an iperf server at one end ( eg the PC ) , and a client at the other ( eg the iPad ) . It runs for a configurable amount of time ( I think the default is 1 minute ) , and then tells you how much data it managed to transfer . Compared to eg copying a file , the figures you get this way are a more accurate reflection of the available network speed , because copying a file requires retrieving the data from a hard drive , writing it at the other end , sending acknowledgements , the overhead of the file transfer protocol etc. . . iPerf is simpler than that : it just transfers data as fast as it can .
Yes , you can move the applications . Providing the destination remains in the Spotlight index , the Mac App Store will continue to update the app .
Basically all apps will be closed when shutting down , simply because the computer will be turned off . Just to be sure : Shutting down means : Turning the computer off . However the behavior after rebooting differs depending on the operation system version you are using . If you are running Lion or Mountain Lion there is a feature that allows to automatically restart all open applications after rebooting/start up . In Mountain Lion you will be asked before the computer shuts down if you want the applications to be restarted after reboot . Just uncheck the checkbox . If you 're confusing shutting down with standby and/or sleep mode you will have no built-in way to solve it ( but an AppleScript may help ) . But at least I can provide you with a shortcut : Pressing ⌘ Command Q will " completely " close an application . You can use this shortcut instead of right clicking the dock icon to close the app .
Within Xcode you can specify that an app is iPad only under the " Deployment Info " section of the target 's General settings . Beyond that the way to limit an app to certain devices is by specifying features in the Info.plist under the key . You can see the options listed on Apple 's developer website here : <URL> Unfortunately there does not seem to be an option that limits an app to iPad Pro devices only . You can specify " arm64 " which will limit your app to iPad mini second generation and above , iPad Airs and iPad Pro devices . But I ca n't see an option that says devices that support Apple Pencil only .
If you want to prevent usage of the app completely , you can enable restrictions ( Settings > General > Restrictions ) and turn off the toggle for News . iOS 10 also lets you delete default apps like News , but keep in mind that it could be re-downloaded from the App Store ( unless you enable the restriction for Installing Apps too ) .
You can use this block of AppleScript to loop through your tabs on a window : This will go through all your tabs and switch every 1 second . Just change the delay to change the time before each tab switches .
Searching in a page has been added on to the Google ( or whatever you use ) search facility . Just tap the search field and enter your search term . Instead of launching the search , scroll down to the bottom of the suggested searches and there will be a section labeled " On This Page " . Tapping " Find " _____ " " will launch the in-page search feature .
There are two , both from Facebook . It 's available in the Messages section of <URL> , as well as the standalone <URL> . The standalone app uses a denser interface , and would be an improvement if you were going to use this heavily , but the section of the complete app is n't much worse .
The option is hidden behind a long/hard press - so not easily discoverable : Tap on the Activity app from your Apple Watch 's Home screen . Swipe left until you see the Move ring . Press firmly on the screen . Tap on Change Move Goal . Adjust your move goal to whatever you 'd like and tap Update . Source : <URL> The calorie goal is the only configurable goal .
It is easy to combine both in the same iOS app . <URL> URL will provide you more information about this issue . Summary : You try to load iAd , if that fails to load or something else happens - you can fall back on AdMob .
Here 's how I understand it . Mobile apps that run on iOS 7 can indeed be set up to ( either manually or automatically ) connect via VPN , but the devices have to be managed with OS X 10.9 as the backend VPN server and MDM . This is intended to separate the corporate connection ( which may be carrying sensitive data ) from the personal one . Functionally , a payload ( XML file ) will be pushed to the iOS device . The VPN payload is designated by specifying as the value . The VPN payload contains VPN connection information , but relevant to VPN-By-App , the key is enabled : If true , the Per-App VPN connection starts automatically when apps linked to this Per-App VPN service initiate network communication . Additionally , there is a VPNUUID key : A globally-unique identifier for this VPN configuration . This identifier is used to configure apps so that they use the Per-App VPN service for all of their network communication . And a SafariDomains key : This array contains strings , each of which is a domain that should trigger this VPN connection in Safari . So , the short answer to your question is Yes .
end question
start question
Is it possible that my MBP ( running Yosemite ) can remote turn on my iPhone 4S 's ( running iOS 8.1 ) personal hotspot ?
The feature I 'm after is called : Instant Hotspot It seems like an iPhone 4S can not do this feature . From <URL> , it 's an iPhone 5 or newer . <URL> . Sad.Panda :(
A few solutions , not all of them good : If possible , update to iOS 5 ( probably at the Apple Store ) and do n't use iTunes . Find a friend with a Mac or a PC and get them to activate it . Go to the Apple Store ( as Randolph said ) and ask them . Run Windows in VirtualBox ( or another VM solution ) , and use iTunes from there . ( thanks , Fake Name ) Get sixty million of your best friends to switch to Linux and all complain at Apple for a Linux port of iTunes . Run iTunes in Wine , if that 's possible .
I do n't believe this is possible at this time . Read receipts in iMessage appears to be an all-on or all-off option only .
You will need to turn on AssistiveTouch prior to needing to call Emergency . Go to and turn it On . This will show a screen overlay of several options , including the home button . ( You can also just tell Siri to turn on AssistiveTouch ) Whenever you need to call Emergency , wake the iPhone the usual way and then tap the AssistiveTouch screen overlay and swipe to bring-up the ability to call Emergency .
In a word , no , it 's currently available for any App to read , and then subsequently use as it sees fit . However , Apple recently made clear that they would not approve future Apps that request it , and so it 's use will be negated over time , but of course this wo n't necessarily apply to the millions of apps already approved .
Bluetooth needs to be in advertising mode for Yosemite 's Handoff to work . To disable Handoff in Mac Yosemite : Select System Prefs > General and uncheck " Allow Handoff between this Mac and your iCloud devices " .
This is n't a real solution , but I upgraded to Lion . I posted a similar question in the Apple forums , but there were n't any solutions suggested there either .
Once you have downloaded it from the App Store , but before you run it , you can copy the Install Mountain Lion app into the Applications folder of any Mac you have an Admin account on ( and have signed into the App store as you obviously ) and run it from there . If the Mac is not recent enough to install Mountain Lion the installer will tell you , otherwise it will happily install Mountain Lion for you . That 's how I updated all the Macs at my place . Note that once run the installer will delete itself from the Applications folder .
There is a way , Though a bit strange . If you choose to delete the podcast/file , you will get a Confirmation dialog with Delete/Cancel option . Slide with your finger horizontal over the file and it will give you an option to Delete the file . Choose Delete to show the second Confirmation dialog . There , you will be able to view the full name of the Podcast . Be CAREFUL not to choose Delete or you will loose the file . And also the full name of the podcast .
Yes , you can . In Xcode , you can set archive for iOS Device even if you have n't got an iOS Device ( this is instead of " Simulator " ) and upload this binary to iTunes Connect perfectly fine .
At an educated guess , I would say the following is happening : Exchange is designed to push - and the exchange server is no doubt pushing to Apple servers - regardless of whether you have push enabled on the iPad or not , it 's just how it works . When you connect to the Apple store , you connect to the Apple notification server ( or renew your connection to it ) and in doing so pick up any mail that has n't been collected from the exchange server yet . I would imagine the same would happen with other push notifications as they pass to the Apple server whether they are enabled on your iPad or not . What would be interesting to test is whether this happens with a conventionally configured Gmail account - which would probably shed more light on what is happening .
Personal Hotspot is designed for sharing a cellular data connection , not for acting as a wireless access point or router . This means that multiple devices connected to the same iOS device can not connect to one another - they can only access the Internet ( assuming the cellular data connection is active ) . Unfortunately I ca n't find any Apple documentation to confirm this , but have seent his from personal experience . Your best solution is to purchase a portable wireless access point and connect all of your devices to that .
Today I get the option back . After 6 month I found <URL> app was the reason to disable " personal Hotspot " . I just uninstalled it . <URL> I wrote an email to Onavo support about it and got this reply Dave NOV 09 , 2011 | 06:44 PM IST Hi Jitendra , Thanks for replying . We 're sorry to hear that , still trying to find a solution for this . Our team is working on several solutions , will update soon . Regards , Onavo Support <URL>
In iOS 4.3 there will be Personal Hotspot integrated in firmware . Just wait
Troubleshooting a slow mac is fairly easy , but sometimes tedious . You will want to and quit all apps . You might even go to the Users &amp; Groups preference and remove all applications that start when you log in to your Mac . Turn off WiFi and then shut down the Mac so you can start isolating it . Remove all peripherals except the keyboard , display and power cord . Power on and then log in and let it run for 5 minutes and then take a snapshot of the Activity Monitor . Look and see what CPU usage is and if the background tasks are taking any CPU time . If so , dig deeper - open terminal and run " sudo sysdiagnose " If not , go ahead and connect your peripherals one at a time . Check the CPU/Activity Monitor and watch both the Memory Pressure graph and the CPU . If you want , you can also look at energy , but that 's better for half hour snapshots for me . At this point , you should know the OS is fine and all of your peripherals and hard drives are not causing the slowness . Now go ahead and start the apps you choose to run when it 's slow . Again , you are still disconnected from any network - just checking the OS and the CPU . When that 's fine , you can conclude that the data coming in from the network was causing a load the OS was n't handling . If you can narrow things down , get a from a clean start and again when it is " slow " and post a second question with details of what your initial troubleshooting has shown .
You can create an <URL> directly on the iPhone that acts like a queue . Alternatively you could <URL> in iTunes then import that to the iPhone by dragging the list to the phone icon . Any missing tracks would be imported .
You will need to renew your dev certificate and your provisions to upload apps from Xcode to stock iOS devices .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
No , you wo n't be able to . It tells you that on <URL> , before wiping your iPhone :
If you 've ruled out other issues ( HDD f/ex ) and want to roll back to 10.6.7 , the quickest way will be to re-install 10.6 followed by the <URL> .
end question
start question
How can I mount an ext4 file system on OS X ?
The answer depends on you willingness to invest in commercial software : If you do n't mind spending some money on a commercial product , <URL> will give you read and write access to ext2 / ext3 / ext4 file systems . Version 9 supports all versions of OS X from 10.5 to 10.11 . If you are looking for a free solution , you can setup a Linux virtual machine , mount your volume ( s ) there and share it / them via <URL> or ( S ) FTP . <URL> has some details on how to achieve this using <URL> , a free virtual machine application . Note this is not exactly a lightweight solution , even if using a <URL> will spare you installing and configuring a Linux distro from scratch .
Its old question , but still if it helps anyone . You need following 2 in order to maximise your window when clicked on title bar : Go to Apple icon > System Preferences > Dock > Select " Double-click a window 's title bar to " " Zoom " Shift + Double click on title bar to maximise the window . Cheers
Are you sure that it 's not to be found ? If I look at Preferences → Settings → Keyboard , the checkbox for Use option as meta key is at the bottom . I am on 10.7.1 so it may be something overlooked in the GM of Lion and fixed in the first patch .
I never used stay but I am using Moom ( Apple store ) and pretty happy with it . It stores windows positions and has configurable hotkeys . There is no automatic settings for different displays but since you can assign hotkeys to configuration is not a big issue . It is very stable .
If you want to remove Java 6 ... From <URL> , do the following : Remove the " system " JVM installed and maintained by Software Update Remove any Java Developer Previews Do NOT remove any content in the JavaVM.framework . Those items are required by Java 7 , 8 , 9 + as well as Java SE 6 . No modern version of OS X has a Java JDK inside there anyway .
OK , I figured it out but it 's not straightforward . I figured it had to be stored in a . plist file somewhere , so I searched all the . plist files in for ones that contained the Apple ID I used for iMessages . These were the ones : When I searched for on the web I found a link to a <URL> on the Apple forums that also helped out . So basically , this is what I did : Delete the . plist files I mentioned above ( note , the last one with the UUID in the name is likely to be different for each user ) : Then I removed all the chat history and archive : Then I restarted the Mac just in case . Now the account and everything about it that ever existed on this machine is gone :)
You may use the free app <URL> which supports this feature .
You have to press cmd + v upon startup to see the boot output . Press this right after the chime . If you want to make that permanent , you should probably do something along the lines of : To undo the above : in the Terminal . ( / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app ) note : I have n't tested the above commands , but I 'm sure a google query will help you there if you want to make it permanent .
⌘ ] and ⌘ [ to increase and decrease indent level works in Pages too . These are the default shortcuts for the options available in Format → Text .
<URL> ( previously known as KeyRemap4MacBook ) Save a file like this as <URL> : Note that the field uses <URL> so , for example , any spaces in the path or filename should be encoded with . Alfred 2 If you have the Powerpack for Alfred 2 , you can create a workflow like this : Hotkeys have a short delay by default , but you can reduce it by changing the trigger behavior : Other applications that support assigning shortcuts to opening applications <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Automator services There has been a bug since 10.7 where the keyboard shortcuts for Automator services do n't always work until you hover over the services menu from the menu bar . There is also a relatively long delay before services are run , and the keyboard shortcuts for services do n't work when the frontmost application does n't have a services menu .
You can also set a shortcut of your choosing by adjusting Lion 's built-in keyboard preferences . If you go to System Preferences -- > Keyboard , one of the settings menus on the left side bar is for Launchpad &amp; Dock . Make sure the check box next to ' Show Launchpad ' is selected , then double click to the right under the listed shortcut to turn dock hiding on/off . You 'll see a data entry box selected , and you can then enter whatever shortcut you 'd like .
I just figured out one way to do this : Pause the download on the iPhone by tapping the icon . Connect the iPhone to iTunes . This will cause iTunes to start downloading the app . Go to the Downloads tab in iTunes and delete the download .
I now got a working solution based on one of the links in Michiel 's answer , but let 's spell it out more clearly . What I did was to Download <URL> , a faceless CLI application . Pair it upp with <URL> , a launchdaemon manager . Set volimiter to launch on login with preferred setting : volimiter .6 .6 means 60 % of volume . Works terrific !
Yes , Disk Utility can do this . Use then select your file . In the dialog that follows , select . Disk Utility will insist on saving the new ISO as a file , but it is really an ISO . You can rename it to in the Finder , if you like . At <URL> there are screen shots that walk through this process .
The easiest way to format any disk is to use Disk Utility ( in ) . Just start the application , select the drive to be formatted in the left column , make double sure you 've selected the right one and select the file system type , partition sizes etc. on the right hand side .
wrt the issues above : Yes you can . Very effectively . Just be aware that your Django sites wo n't integrate into Server App 's GUI unless you restrict yourself to python 2.7 ; Apache mod_wsgi ; no virtualenvs . Not if you wish to proxy to a wsgi server like Gunicorn , because when you save the Website 's panel , OS X Server will sanitise some of your essential Apache directives and you will lose control over how your Django static files , for example , are served . OS X Server has a particular execution and configuration model in mind and it does a good job of managing websites that accord with that model - but at the cost of flexibility . I know that people successully deploy Django using Apache 's mod_wsgi , but that comes with severe limitations . As in 2 . The section of the plist for your web app in OS X Server 's directory is all-or-nothing . e.g. . You ca n't Include a in the right place for it to have effect . Not with Apache mod_wsgi . No . OS X Server 3.2.1 uses Apache 2.2 . Proxies via UDS was not included in Apache until later . ( Perhaps you could have Apache proxy to Nginx ( via a TCP port ) and , in turn , proxying to Gunicorn via each Django site 's own UDS ... if you thought there was a compelling reason . ) Yes . The approach I took : Put your application 's Apache file in OS X Server 's directory where it will be left alone by the Server app . Forget about trying to use the Server GUI and ' binding ' web apps to sites through its Advanced settings window . A nice idea but ... Use virtualenv ( wrapper ) to set up the different python and package versions for a more future-proof approach ... OS X Server 4 on Yosemite coming up ! Example code : . conf for Django virtual server This is adapted directly from the file that OS X Server generates from its GUI with these main differences : is off by default . prevents the Alias directive from being ignored . I found that , when including this directive using the Apple-recommended web app . plist section , the Included lines were in the wrong place to have the desired effect . your SITENAME and PORT : LaunchDaemon plist for Gunicorn wsgi server your SITENAME ; REVERSED_SITENAME and PORT : Snippet from the OS X Server 's Shows virtualenv paths specified by the virtualenvwrapper environment variables Snippet from the Fabric automation file Shows : The target paths - the directories where your configuration files will end up ; The commands to activate the Django site in the final steps in deployment
Have you checked out the built in Screen Sharing in OS X ? Check out System Preferences - > Sharing - > Screen Sharing . Click on the Computer Settings button and you should see a dialog which allows you to enable VNC connections . You should then be able to use any VNC Client like Chicken of the VNC to connect to the remote system running Lion .
Start with log files . You have a program in your folder called ; Fire that up , and it will show you a collection of log files - you should inspect these to see if there is anything obvious showing up at the time of your crashes . Once you have discovered something that looks odd , or consistent across your crashes , you can google it or ask again here .
You want to remove " write permission " from the file , so it can not be written to . If you block MobileMe from writing to it , you will also be blocking the application from writing to it , which could cause problems . Via the command line : From the Finder , do CMD+I ( Get Info ) , and under " Sharing &amp; Permissions " at the bottom , set it to read only . If you need to write to the file ( perhaps for the application to work properly ) , you can temporarily make it write-able , or approach this with a different solution . For example , you could use DropBox , link the file to DropBox from all your Snow Leopard computers , and just not link the file on the Lion computer .
You can use the ECM tools created by Neill Corlett , the creator of ECM . Just run " unecm " on the file . <URL> If that seems intimidating , there is a <URL> here that uses a GUI and contains links to the tools used .
end question
start question
How can I upgrade my jailbroken iPad ?
The straightforward way is to wait until the current version of iOS is jailbroken , and then upgrade and rejailbreak - there are applications you can use ( a handy range is described at <URL> ) to back up the ' jailbroken bits ' of the device , but I personally prefer just upgrading and then putting back on those cydia apps that I really want on my own - they way I also have had the chance for a bit of a clear out .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
Yes you can , drop them into iTunes or email them to an account you can check via the iPad . You can choose to either read it in the Maill app or read it in iBooks . Or just use Safari on the iPad to go to <URL> and download the PDF to iBooks right there .
Apple wants you to buy the <URL> in order to upgrade from Mac OS X Tiger 10.4 to Snow Leopard . Technically , you the <URL> retail package will upgrade intel based Macs running Mac OS X Tiger 10.4 , however it is against the terms of the End User License Agreement ( EULA ) . The <URL> includes additional software that typically comes with a new Mac ( and some that does n't ) and it is recommended by Apple to ' upgrade your Mac experience ' because it is more like buying a new Mac than just upgrading the operating system . To hear it straight from Apple , here are the answers from Alan Eyzaguire , director of software product marketing at Apple Europe to this question . " We just think that Apple customers could really benefit from having those . They 're great software . " " it 's great when people get the full experience " " if you have Snow Leopard it 's great to have the latest iWork and iLife " " we wanted to make that [ upgrade ] as attractive as possible " " you get it almost for free " " it 's a steal ! " " Technically , yes , it would upgrade a Tiger install , but in the licensing , no . " ( <URL> )
The Retina MacBooks use a format of SSD that can be replaced , but Apple does not make it especially easy for simple replacement . Rather than the more familiar 2.5 " HD format you might be familar with , the Retina use a newer blade style , somewhat similar to memory modules . Your best bet it to look over the ifixit guides , to see what is involved : <URL> As far as I know , Apple offers repair and replace service for a Retina laptop , but I have not seen them offer ' upgrade ' service . You could always complain about issues , and ask them to replace it with a newer , and larger size , but they would only do that if the part was orginally offered as an option on the Retina . Good Luck !
Yes . As long as you 're running the most up-to-date Snow Leopard version ( 10.6.8 ) , you can directly upgrade to Mountain Lion , as detailed on <URL> . Just download from the App Store and you should be good to go .
Without jailbreaking , I believe your options are the use of apps that provide this kind of lock functionality built-in , unless Apple decide to implement some kind of <URL> in future iOS versions for devices like the iPad . I 've previously come across <URL> or <URL> ( there may well be others ) which provide passcode protection schemes when starting and , judging by the screenshots , appear to be frontends to the relevant webmail pages ( as opposed to a native application like the Apple Mail app ) . I 've not used either , but they may be of use to you .
These apps ( and the full screen mode ) require APIs that are not available on versions prior to Lion . Even if one could purchase Mail separately , it would n't run .
It is recommended to update your Jailbroken iOS device by doing full restore form iTunes . In order to preserve your apps , contacts etc. perform a backup in iTunes by right clicking on your device and selecting option .
Get safari download manager from cydia so that you can download it and ifile which lets you play it .
OSX provides to define custom firewall rules . Using this tool you can create a pipe with limited bandwidth . When you assign the throttled pipe to a specific port , this port 's bandwidth is limited . Quick How-To Create a pipe " 1 " limited to 500KBytes/s via Guide all network traffic of port 80 through pipe " 1 " using When you do n't need the pipe anymore , remove it from the port using Other If you want to set higher traffic barriers , you can use Port : standard port for unencrypted traffic . This port is used for most browsing and downloading . You should be fine with this in most cases . Port : standard port for SSL encrypted traffic .
The fullscreen YouTube uses of its website , is not a " real fullscreen " feature . It just maximize the size of the video to the size of the webcontent . So unlike Vimeo ( for example ) you wo n't get a real fullscreen without YouTube updating it 's webplayer ( or you using the YouTube app ) .
Yes , you can buy third party RAM . I usually buy <URL> RAM . As long as it is made to be compatible with your machine ( Same Bus Speed and such ) . Usually , you can search these companies sites for RAM for your specific make and model MBP and they will have suggestions for it . You can sometimes even put in more RAM than Apple says it can . The companies test newer machines to see how much RAM they can handle . For instance , the new current gen MBP only supports 8GB according to Apple , but 16GB of RAM will still work and wo n't cause any problems . It will work perfectly . I am running 8GB of RAM in my machine , it cost me 46 dollars with shipping over 200 dollars from Apple . Just be sure to keep you old RAM just in case your new RAM goes bad , which it most likely wo n't , but that way you have back up RAM to use in just such an occasion . I hope that helps .
Press ⌘ F , set the search scope to the current folder , and set kind to PDF . You can then save the search and open it from the sidebar or Spotlight . The view options are saved in the . savedSearch file , so you can set it to open in icon view and have large icons and low grid spacing .
I believe that whilst this capability is not included in the official dropbox app , it is possible to accomplish using GoodReader for iPad . Open GoodReader on iPad and expand the section in the bottom right of the main screen which says " Connect to Servers " Tap " Add " Tap " Dropbox " Enter your details and click add Now tap the server you just added ( I called it " Dropbox " ) In the bottom right hand corner of the popover that just came up is a button saying upload . Tap it . Select the files you want to upload and tap " Upload " You will only need to do steps 5-7 the second time
Flash does not run on any version of the iPhone . You can try using a program like <URL> which will live transcode your DiVX files into a format the iPhone will play back using your computer . As for playing it natively on your iPhone , VLC ( Video Lan Client ) is working on a native client but it 's not available in the App Store yet .
Option 2 in your question is the correct one . In the <URL> section of the upgrade program site you posted it says you have to pay 11 monthly payments ( you might as well think of it as 12 months because the upfront payment is in essence your first month ) . So when you have paid the monthly installment 11 times , you have 2 options : Turn in the phone for an upgrade while restarting both timers ( the 11 monthly payments + 1st down payment and the 20 month full contract ) . Continue paying for the phone until the 20 month contract is done and the phone is 100 % yours . The important thing here is that you are never paying for your old phone once you upgrade it .
The Cydia FAQ is probably the best source of information on this topic . See <URL> . Here 's an excerpt : Q : Where do I get started with developing for jailbroken iOS ? A : It helps to know something about developing for normal iOS . You might also check out <URL> . The wiki it points to has several " Quick Start " articles : <URL>
You can use something like <URL> to drag and drop them into the / User/Media/DCIM / 100Apple ( last one may be different ) directory . I know it works with pictures , but I have n't had a chance to test with video . But I do n't see why it would n't work once the database is updated . If you 're jailbroken and transfer a video , that the phone can play , with iPhone Explorer ( works on Mac and Windows for iPad and iPod too ) or through SSH ( with the OpenSSH package from Cydia ) , <URL> can add it to the camera roll ( same with pictures , and it does n't matter where they are if you use the SSH and iFile method ) . Not exactly drag and drop but you do n't have to go through iTunes . iPhone Explorer does not require the iDevice to be jailbroken . Also if you got the VLC Player app before Apple pulled it you can drag and drop almost any video type into the app via the " File Sharing " box in iTunes in the App tab . ( If the phone is jailbroken you can still get the VLC player from Cydia )
All you need to do is plug your iPhone into iTunes , click on it under Devices : And click " Restore " : iTunes will make sure that you do actually want to restore : Jailbreaking does not make any permanent changes ; a restore will put your iPhone back exactly the way it was before you jailbroke it .
end question
start question
How do I find a specific bug on Apple 's Bug Reporter ?
Apple 's bug database is private , and as you see , you are only able to review the bugs that you submit . This has been the subject of much debate in the Apple developer community . <URL> is an attempt to shed light on bugs that participating developers file . It uses the same ID numbers as the real Bug Reporter system , so if the bug referred to is in Open Radar , you should be able to find it by its ID .
To see a listing of all the apps you have purchased or downloaded , do this : Go to Store > View My Account Login Click on " Purchase History " You should now see all the apps you have downloaded before . Stolen from <URL> .
This is the problem Apple is grappling with right now . I 'm hoping that they 'll have some answer for us this year that helps us deal with the number of competing apps in the app store . In the meantime , I have a few strategies for finding an app that meets my needs : Use the app store search . If you need your ebook reader to support epub , bookmarks , notes , and dropbox , simply type , " epub bookmarks notes dropbox " in the search field of the app store . I like to sort first by rating and check out the highest rated apps , then by popularity and check out the most downloaded apps . Note that sorting by rating and popularity are only available on the iPad . I read the reviews , both at the high rate end and low rate end to get an idea of the types of features people are excited about , and the types of problems people are experiencing . I look at the most recent update notes , and see how long ago it was last updated to get an idea of whether the developer is taking an active role in maintaining the app and is responsive to complaints , or if it 's an old app that works , but probably does n't have new features . At that point the only thing to do is to try out the ones that look most promising . Many apps offer a trial or ad supported version , so the trial can be free in many cases . For others , you 'll have to pay a little to try them out , and if they do n't fit your needs you 've lost a little money and time , but remember that you 're picking an app that should fit your needs for a long time - when you find it it will be worth the effort and money you 've spent on other apps looking for the perfect one . Use internet reviews/forums Do a google search for " best ebook reader ipad " or similar , and you 'll often get dozens of " top ten " style lists from people who have spent some time not just reviewing a few apps , but comparing and contrasting them . You have to do a bit of wading , and you are going to have a hard time finding less popular subjects , " best lawn care app " is n't going to give you such collections because few people will have taken the time to check them out , even though many exist onthe app store . Ask in appropriate forums This site , Ask Different , does permit apple and iOS specific product recommendations , for instance , and there are many other forums that are fine with such questions . You can check out the tag <URL> to get examples of the style of questions allowed here . The tag has this note which might also give you tips on asking for a recommendation : Recommendations can easily be subjective and local to one person or time . Please be specific about function and broad about timeframe so that your question , once answered objectively , is of use to the community .
It 's not a stock feature of the OS , but you might have some luck with third-party add-on <URL> , which mimics Windows Aero Snap features .
Go into the keyboard settings and add a shortcut for the corrected spelling of the word . I had to do this with my daughter 's name , as every time I spelled it , it would come out in capitals . You can just use a part of the word and it can auto spell the word for you , or you can spell it with a different capitalization and save the corrected version the other way . If you need to use the first part of the word it may not work . Do n't really know , but it worked for me ;-)
I think in OS X you should use for " cron jobs " . But otherwise your task should be easy to do with a cronjob This should run everyday at 23:55 Update You should specify the output location of WGET with
Handbrake is a nice program that you can use to convert videos and DVDs . Since VCDs are nothing more than mpeg files ( with . dat ) extension , you can easily use Handbrake to transcode them to m4v . Handbrake also allows you to select which tracks you want to keep , although if each track is its own file , you may need to use MP4Box to merge them together . Handbrake is available at <URL> , and MP4Box can be downloaded from <URL> .
Open a finder window and set the view to list view . Press command-J and select " calculate all sizes " then click " use as standard " . Now folder sizes will show in your finder . I do n't think it is possible to show sizes for multiple folders , but this might be a good workaround .
The MacBook Air should have come with a bootable USB flash drive for OS reinstalls . Use that and follow the same steps as 10.5.x .
You can see the current RAM configuration in a visual overview by : Going to the menu If you 'd like further detail , open the from the tab of . This can also be accessed by holding ⌥ while the menu is open , then selecting .
While <URL> @ <URL> <URL> are no longer freeware , the <URL> and <URL> Dashboard widgets are free . I personally use iStat nano for my system monitoring needs . Here it is showing the temps it can read on my iMac : If you <URL> the widget , you can change the view . I usually have it running in " <URL> " mode , which shows CPU , RAM , HDD * , fan * , temperature * , network * and uptime info . * ) user-configurable , e.g. which temp sensor 's readings are displayed
From <URL> : Mac to Mac screen sharing , using the username/password , is done in a secure manner . Using a VNC client and the " VNC viewers may control screen with password " is not secure .
I 've discovered a free app called iContacts + ( there are several such apps , I just grabbed the first that did n't look too ghastly ) . It allowed me to search by most recent addition .
Yes , smaller groups can apply to be in the MFi program , if they are serious about making a product for the iOS devices . However , you will need to get approval from Apple for your basic device concept in order to get in the program , then the device will need to pass third-party certifications to verify that it wo n't interfere with the iOS device , etc. . Finally , Apple will need to approve your final product design before you can start selling it . They 've opened up this process significantly over the last year or so , but given the hurdles you have to jump to get a functional device out there this is still not intended for one-off hobby projects . A small company can make a product to sell in lower volumes , but you 'll need at least $ 20,000 in development funds to get through the process to your final design . Recouping that level of investment does n't require selling millions of devices , but you do have to have some moderate volume of device sales to make it worth your initial development time and money . We 're in the process of building an MFi accessory , and we 're a very small company . Our target sales volumes are not large , but they 're enough to make this worthwhile . If the product takes off , so much the better .
A PList file , like Mankoff said , is just a specially formatted XML file , so you can actually edit and create them in a program like TextEdit . Because of the specific nature of PLists to Development , however , using a special program like or becomes a much more fruitful endeavor . This is because it not only automatically formats the XML code for you , but it will actually translate the key identifiers and layers into readable words , and also for some values it will provide a drop-down menu to fill in the correct responses . Especially when dealing with iPhone plists , when multiple runtime variables can be set using the Plist , easily creating new fields and knowing what to put in them makes it so much easier . You can get bot Xcode and PList Editor from the Apple Developer website <URL> for free by downloading the latest Xcode release .
Create an Event , and then select " Repeat = > Every Day " and click " Done " - you 'll now see a new option below " Repeat " called " End Repeat " where you then choose e.g. a date 3 days from today .
If the wireless printer has joined the network , OS X should see it listed as a nearby printer . From the Print &amp; Scan pane in System Preferences , click the Plus ( ) button in the lower left , and it should show up in the popup menu . If it does n't , select " Add Other Printer or Scanner ... " In the resulting window , the " Default " Tab will show all local Bonjour printers , as well as any connected directly via USB . If you know the local IP of the printer you want to add , you can enter this in the IP tab .
It 's not a question of licensing , it 's that the architecture of the Mac &amp; an iDevice are totally different . The Mac runs on an Intel processor , OS X is based on a unix kernel . iDevices run on an ARM processor , iOS is [ actually idk , but proprietary ] ( All iDevices run on the same ' family ' of processors , so that is why if you purchase an iApp , you can use it on any iDevice you own . ) Apps for one simply can not run on the other . Some apps are made in 2 or more versions , for Mac , iPhone , iPad , even Windows or Android etc , each available from their respective Store . The App Store ' app ' on the Mac is only for Mac Apps . iApps can be purchased either from the App Store on the iDevice , or through iTunes on a Mac/PC . The licensing model for Apple is that the Apple ID used to purchase an app from the App Store is allowed to use it on any device they own using that Apple ID [ 1 ] [ so long as it will physically run , as explained above ] This makes moving from machine to machine easy , but not from ID to ID . It 's pretty much the opposite of the Microsoft model , where an app , or even the OS itself is tied to one machine , using a serial number etc. . [ 1 ] with some exceptions which you can see noted in the Purchases tab in the App Store app . An example ... Interestingly , the only apps I have that are not shareable are all Freeware anyway , so I could simply re - " purchase " if I needed them on another machine . <URL> extends that licensing model to other members of your family , so all can access the same songs , albums , movies , TV shows , books , and apps on both Mac and iDevices , if they wish , from a single ' purchase ' .
If you can see your MacBook Pro with Retina Display in iCloud , it has been enabled . The reason it is showing as offline is because it is either ( 1 ) shut down and not connected to internet , or ( 2 ) the device has , somehow , already been wiped , with the first option being much more likely in this situation . Computers are particularly vulnerable to this type of situation because they do n't have a constant data connection like an iPhone , or data-enabled iPad , often would . The user must boot the laptop and connect to a wifi before Find My Mac will know anything about it 's where-abouts or be able to perform any actions . The first , and main thing to do is to select the the " Lock " , or " Erase " option . If it is a neighborhood kid and you think some noise might provide truth , you could always do the play sound feature . This plays an alert at maximum volume . You should probably use this sparingly , and only activate it , for example , if you are within earshot of it . Chances are the user could take quick actions to dampen the sound . As for the " Lock " , or " Erase " option , it will do this as soon as the computer is connected to the internet . Obviously , if they never connect the computer to the internet before wiping it , then the Lock feature wo n't do any good , but at least if they do , it will help you . Good news for you is you <URL> it with Find my Mac . <URL> And yes , you will get an email when any action occurs on your Mac - such as it being locked or found .
Just typing the operand NOT before the criteria will do the trick . So , in this case , typing will show all the files but the ones with the . txt extension .
end question
start question
What is the difference between a " sparse disk image " and a " sparse bundle disk image " ?
From the <URL> : Sparse bundle disk images appear as a single file but are actually stored as a folder with many files inside . This makes it more efficient to back them up using Time Machine or other backup utilities , as only the changed parts need to be copied . Additionally , sparse bundle disk images work well with the Compact Image ... command . Compatible with Mac OS X 10.5 and later . Sparse disk images are stored as a single file . This can make backups inefficient for large disk images , because the entire file must be copied each time . The Compact Image ... command generally does not reclaim as much disk space as with sparse bundle disk images . Compatible with Mac OS X 10.3 and later .
Apparently the only ways to find out a Mac 's serial number ( if you do n't have the Mac physically present ) are : When you had the Mac , you : Registered it with Apple ( check <URL> ) Ran and saved a copy of System Profiler 's output Without the Mac : Have a sales receipt from a retailer that puts the serial number on their receipts Purchased it from a retailer that keeps track of serial numbers Find the box the Mac came in Thankfully , after I posted this question , the buyer was able to find the original box , which gave him the serial number . But the actual answer to the question is : No , Macs do not normally store their serial number in a disk file .
Your probably best of if you crop the photos yourself . Here are the pixel counts that work best for each screen size : iOS devices : display sizes 320 × 480 pixels : iPhone ( 1st generation ) , iPhone 3G , iPhone 3GS , iPod touch ( 1st -- 3rd generation ) 640 × 960 pixels : iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod touch ( 4th generation ) 640 × 1136 pixels : iPhone 5/5s/5c , iPod touch ( 5th generation ) Retina display 1024 × 768 pixels : iPad , iPad 2 , iPad mini ( non-retina ) 2048 × 1536 pixels : iPad Air , retina iPad mini and iPad ( 3rd -- 4th generation ) , all of which have Retina display Automate resizing using Automator Automator let 's you easily crop images . See my screenshot below for explanation and just click the actions together . You can automate resizing the photos with Automator , if you do n't demand to choose an extract of your photo . <URL> Rember to use " crop images " with " scale before crop : Scale to Short Side " : After finishing your workflow you could add a thousands images and let your Mac do the work . You will be prompted to select your images ( see first action ) . Just adapt the sizes for your corresponding device . You could also merge this into one workflow . Just duplicate the last three steps and change the suffix ( ) in action " Add text " . Here is an example image * went through my Automator workflow . Original : <URL> Result : <URL> Resizing using an application You could use the free app <URL> from the Mac App Store . This let 's you choose an image extract . The maker of another app ( <URL> ) documents the sub-pixel shifts that parallax changes can have at <URL> I hope my answer helps you with your problem concerning your image size and how to resize them . Unfortunately , I do not see an option to set a background image in Apple Configurator ( Version 3.5 ( 289 ) ) . * image by interfacelift.com
is simply a <URL> version of the M3U format [ <URL> ] . ( files can have <URL> . )
It 's not been shown ( yet ) how to hack apart the Time Machine process on Lion sufficient to do what you ask ( skip the sparse storage format ) . I too was bitten by early network based sparse bundles . Since mid 10.6 ( maybe 10.6.5 ) - I 've been unable to break Time Capsule based despite repeated tests to be really mean . This includes pulling the power of the capsule in the middle of backups repeatedly to regain confidence . This is n't something I 'd do on my main backup , but the Snow Leopard implementation is now rock solid in my eyes . Realize that by having a less reliable network , this sparse format is actually more reliable overall and has checks and balances to make sure you get a good backup even when bad things happen .
The rainbow spinning pinwheel is usually controlled by the OS . The blue pinwheel is shown by an app to indicate loading . The spinning wait cursor ( shown below ) is also standard , but it is displayed automatically by the window server when an app ca n't handle all of the events it receives . In general , if an app does not respond for about 2 to 4 seconds , the spinning wait cursor appears . If the app continues to be unresponsive , users often react by force-quitting it . Source : <URL> The blue pinwheel is sometimes called the JavaScript pinwheel as JavaScript in websites are one of the primary ways a user will see this cursor , for cross-platform reasons , as in OS X a ' waiting ' cursor is generally not recommended .
Launchd and Folder Actions are two vastly different concepts . Folder Actions Folder Actions allow you to attach actions in the form of Apple Scripts folders which get triggered if the content of the folder changes . Typical use cases are e.g. a folder to auto-upload photos to a website removal of file attributes ( e.g. the " downloaded " attribute ) triggering import into Evernote etc. . launchd launchd is a system-wide feature to run and control system-level background tasks . These can be either running all the time or get triggered by specific events ( e.g. a connection request coming in over IP , a changing folder , a specific point in time etc. ) . OS X makes heavy use of this concept for all kind of things , have a look at the names in and to get an idea of functionality depending on launchd . Because launchd is a system service running in the background all the time it ca n't be accessed by the user directly . To send commands to launchd , the command is used . Answers to specific questions Do folder actions use launchd ? Most probably not . You can use launchd to do everything folder actions can do but at least on a level visibile to the user these are two different concepts Is one more efficient than the other ? No difference here , both get triggered by OS X upon special conditions . Is one more powerful than the other ? launchd is definitively more powerful . Is one used more over the other ? In a newly installed system there already is a great number of active launchd scripts but no folder actions . Because the later must be explicitely activated and configured by the user , it 's probably a safe guess that launchd is used more often .
Disk Utility in many respect is powered by <URL> , a command line utility that deals with file systems ( not just the one found on OS X ) . The option to verify ( and repair ) your disk deals with the health of the file system ( HFS + ) and the integrity of the data that resides on it , rather than the physical disk . It looks at how the data is stored and not if the drive is reporting mechanical errors ( to some extent this is reported by the S.M.A.R.T status ) . However it should stand to reason that a hardware fault will likely permeate through the file system structure ( though not always ) . Is Disk Utility good at finding hardware issues ? No , not really . It 's meant more to isolate problems with your data set than it is your hardware . There of course is some continuity there but they are not monogamous . DiskWarrior and Drive Genius will undoubtedly do a much better job diagnosing the physical health of your drive . But none are as powerful as the utilities released by your respective hard drive manufacturer . If you can use those , then all the better . Using multiple tools may also prove to be an affective strategy . Another avenue which can help in discovery is to comb your Console 's logs for anomalies . I 've had a WD disk exhibit strange behaviors and first became cognizant of the problem by way of a single error during the initial boot up sequence . Google and WD 's native Windows diagnostic tools helped me isolate the issue ( to some degree ) .
Using <URL> : $ convert image.png - crop ' 1x1 +100 +200 ' txt : - Outputs , e.g. # ImageMagick pixel enumeration : 1,1,255 , rgb 0,0 : ( 236,236,236 ) #ECECEC rgb ( 236,236,236 ) Or , if the file is PNG-24 file , it outputs e.g. # ImageMagick pixel enumeration : 1,1,255 , rgba 0,0 : ( 0 , 0 , 0,243 ) # 000000F3 rgba ( 0,0,0,0.952941 ) At <URL> I 've first defined the area to be cropped , which in this case is 1x1 pixels . Then I 've defined the location of the crop relative to the North West corner , i.e. upper left . † Lastly I 've converted the output to textual with . ImageMagick then outputs all the colors of the image to STDOUT ( in this case there is only one color , as the image size is 1 pixel ) , meaning you could process it with normal shell techniques . So e.g. by piping the output to you would get only the pixel info line . If you need the pixel 's color in any other colorspace , you should look at the aptly named <URL> . † ) Actually the location is relative to the specified <URL> , but it defaults to " NorthWest " .
<URL> Freeware benchmarking solution for Mac OS X. EDIT : The download link is in the right-hand corner . Main Window Graphics Test
In the left corner of the top menu , pick the apple menu and select . In the panel , click the button . if you hover your mouse on you can see the general info about your macbook pro such 15 " or 17 " . As <URL> said in comment above solution for before 2007 now choose Graphics/Displays from the left column , it does display the screen resolution .
Yes , you can . plug in the disk , boot up in it by holding down option , select the disk , and and then run disk utility from the main window . Why do this however , when you have the Restore partition available to do this without a disk ?
launchd does a lot more than cron . In addition to running programs at certain times , it can also run them based on other triggers : incoming network connection , when a file is added to a certain folder , etc. . It can also relaunch a program if it crashes . If you 're interested in it specifically as a replacement for cron , the main difference is how it handles being asleep or shut down when a job is scheduled to run . In this case , cron simply does n't run the job , but launchd will notice that a scheduled run has been missed , and run it at the next opportunity ( although if it 's missed multiple scheduled runs , it 'll only run it once ) . Edit : I should also point out some things that cron can do that launchd can not : automatic emailing of failure reports ( you 'd have to write a wrapper script to do this with launchd ) and user-defined jobs that run even when the user is n't logged in ( a user can define launchd items in ~ / Library/LaunchAgents , but they only run inside a login session ) .
It means that although not officially supported , the 1533 model will work with Spanish carriers if you purchase a sim in Spain . I just got back from Spain where I bought a SIM and the phone worked .
I ended up following the instructions in the article I linked to in my original post to move my Time Machine backups to a new drive . It took 28 hours to transfer 1.9 TB of backups . I then ran Disk Utility " Verify Disk " on it and it was good . So , the errors did not transfer over . So now , I can just repartition the old drive to get rid of all the errors , which I will do after a few days of ensuring that this copy of my backups is indeed good . I later tested the transferred backup by reformatting my iMac and restoring from the TM backup , and it worked fine ( I 'm on it now ) .
A multi-output device allows you to mirror audio output to multiple devices at the same time . An aggregate device allows you to tie multiple devices together to appear as one , single , device with more I/O than any one single device has . Aggregation has a lot of applications in music production where you might want to use more than one audio capture device at the same time from Logic Audio or GarageBand . To do this , you aggregate devices in to one new , virtual device and access the single device from within Logic . Some examples might help illustrate the difference . Example 1 : Multi-Output Device Let 's say I wanted to play music in iTunes and have the audio go to my iMac 's built-in speakers and my AppleTV via AirPlay at the same time . How would I do this ? I would create a new , multi-output device . Assign both my Built-In Output and AirPlay sources to this device and then select it as my output device for audio on my iMac . Now audio played in iTunes goes to both my iMac 's speakers and my AppleTV at the same time -- it 's mirrored . Example 1 : Aggregate Device Let 's say I wanted to record 4 streams of mono audio at the same time but all I have are two audio input devices that each have 2 mono streams on them ( they 're basically stereo capture devices ) . I could create an aggregate device out of the two devices ( assuming their drivers support aggregation in OS X ) and use this new , aggregate device in GarageBand or Logic and now , instead of seeing 2 channels of input , I 'd see 4 channels of input and the devices would function as one , bigger " virtual device " . It works in a similar fashion for their outputs . They all act as independent outputs on one virtual device .
Actually , the Apple Music membership page says that service brings your iTunes library to iCloud , too It does say Apple Music and iTunes Match are " independent but complementary , " but I think I 'm like you -- I ca n't figure out why I 'd want iTunes Match if I 'm paying for Apple Music . The only benefit of Match is the $ 2 a month price point over the $ 10 a month price point . Music appears to do everything Match did but better and more and is priced accordingly .
I 've done some more research and found out that at least JDiskReport has this functionality .
Here 's a modified screenshot of Apple 's <URL> , differences are highlighted . The only differences are the prices , height , width , weight , screen size , and density . Everything else , including the battery life and thickness surprisingly , is exactly the same :
Everything written to the volume under Filevault 2 is encrypted live and in-stream by the kernel / device drivers . As long as there is n't a bug where data leaks to outside the core storage wrapper , you do n't need to worry about someone analyzing the contents of your RAM by snooping the locked drive .
end question
start question
Should I expect battery life on an iPhone 4S to be significantly worse than on a 3GS ?
So it sounds like this is likely a known issue , as described by <URL> article in the UK Guardian . In case anyone else comes across this and is curious about some of the symptoms I 've seen , here is a bit of info that might be useful : I had my phone go from 90 % charge to 60 % charge in 90 minutes while in airplane mode and without using the phone ( no apps running , no location services being used , no iPod usage ) . The phone gets quite warm when the battery is draining . Much more so than I experience when doing anything else . Given the behavior , I 'd guess that it gets into some mode where an app gets out of control and is fully pegging the CPU , even though as far as can be determined , nothing is/should be running . This may be a red herring , but my phone wo n't sync . I do n't know if this is related , but doing either a restore or trying to sync with iTunes while connected to a MBP fails . I can only get things to work with " Transfer Purchases " . I sync fine with my iPad running iOS5 , so I do n't think the problem is on the iTunes side . This may be an unrelated problem ( though I hope it is n't as there is a chance I 'll get a fix for the battery problem ) . Hope this helps others who run into a similar problem and are trying to troubleshoot it . I think the easiest way of testing is using airplane mode and making sure location services are not running and if you are still seeing rapid battery drain , there is no good reason that should be happening in that mode , no matter how you have your phone set up . NOTE : And now <URL> by Apple .
As of October 2011 when this was first asked , there has been no official answer stated . With the 3GS , Apple officially stated " the S is for speed . " There has been no comparable explanation given for the 4S . HOWEVER , in an interview at the All Things D conference , Apple CEO Tim Cook <URL> , " some people might say it stands for Siri or speed . We were thinking of Siri when we did it . " So the official answer is that the S in iPhone 4S stands for ... Siri
While quite possibly you do end up with a lower battery life in your tests than the one advertised , you need to take into account the following : Test conditions Many factors will determine the outcome when testing the battery life , like signal strength , iPhone settings , screen brightness , the actual websites being loaded , background processes and much more . FYI , apple discloses it 's test conditions , you can <URL> . If you truly want to compare , you should as best as possible mimic the test conditions Apple used . Test accuracy While I have no problem taking you for your word your battery drops 1 percent exactly every 5 minutes while browsing , that does n't necessarily mean you end up with 8 hours and 20 minutes of battery life . There is quite a large margin for error when you only sample such a small period , and the only real way of checking Apple 's claims would be by actually trying to surf the web for 10 consecutive hours . Concluding , while Apple 's test conditions are semi-optimal for their testing results , they have a better reputation for test accuracy than some other manufacturers . They do test the iPhone with almost factory default settings , but specifically for browsing the actual web sites being loaded can still make a noticeable difference in the test results . From the info you provided , your battery seems perfectly fine to me and within the margins of difference one would expect .
SMC is short for <URL> . The SMC manages hardware conditions related to temperatures and power consumption . Therefore a reset can only help in problems that are related to such . Possible cases where an SMC Reset could be necessary include ( according to Apple ) : fans running fast but should not keyboard backlight , battery indicator light , display backlight or magsafe LED behaves incorrectly power button does not respond closing/opening the lid does not work properly battery not charging properly system unusually slow
Nothing . Use it and charge it when it gets low . There are n't any " tricks " to ensuring a healthy battery anymore , but Apple does recommend the following : Be sure to fully charge your portable when you plug it in for the first time , and then run Software Update to ensure you have the latest software . The new Apple notebooks ( 2009 and up ) monitor the health of your battery and charge it accordingly , so there is very little maintenance required anymore . In fact , they no longer even require <URL> . All new Apple notebook batteries are pre-calibrated and ready to use . As for usage trends to ensure longevity , that too is all handled by the OS and you can consult <URL> for more details . To be honest , storing the battery in the fridge or freezer , running it down and then charging it , pulling it out when using AC , or all the other myriad of " tricks " you 'll read about are snake oil . Batteries have a limited life-span , and they start to deplete as soon as they are manufactured . That is the nature of batteries . Using them only exacerbates this phenomenon . There is no magic wand to turn back the hand of time . In closing , Apple has some tips on <URL> . Just follow their recommendations , and enjoy your new computer .
I hope the <URL> of <URL> does n't disapprove of me using his app to answer this , but here are the reasons why helpd will run . ( the <URL> of help ) It 's hard to tell if this is one of the processes that needs to run a bit the first time it starts and then it will happily update itself more rapidly when needed ( like / Applications being changed ) as well as early every Sunday AM . The virtual memory system should keep the RAM fine , so unless you see it constantly - it 's just taking the RAM it needs to serve your help menu with fresh and up to date documents . You can also disable that launchd job if it 's causing you grief until you can isolate why .
For 3GS : <URL> : " Settings > General > Usage -- and toggle the Battery Percentage setting to On . " For 3G Jailbreak then install SBSettings . Select Extras &amp; Options - > Numeric Battery
By now it is possible to down-grade your baseband - at least for the iPhone 3G and 3GS ( unfortunately not 4/S ) - from the iPad 's 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( un-lockable ) thanks to the great work of the iPhone Dev Team : The iPhone Dev Team is happy to announce a baseband downgrade option in redsn0w for those who are using the iPad 's 06.15 baseband on the iPhone3G or iPhone3GS . Typically you 'd have the 06.15 baseband if you unlock with ultrasn0w but updated your iPhone baseband past 05.13.04 . With this new capability , you can now downgrade specifically from 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( even if you never had 05.13.04 on that device before ) . This gives you the best of both worlds : ultrasn0w compatibility and a normal iPhone baseband with full GPS and the ability to use stock IPSWs again . See <URL> on their blog .
Have you checked out pkgbackup on cydia ? It has worked for me .
Indeed , it will let you download the last compatible version if you already have the app in your purchase history . You can add the app to your purchase history using iTunes on your computer , since iTunes is version-agnostic . Once you 've downloaded the app on iTunes , it will be in your purchase history and attempting to download it again on your device should prompt you to accept an older version of the app .
I tried installing Avast and adding this to crontab : The average CPU use ( for one core ) after about a day was about 1.5 % , but I 'll keep it running for a few more days or weeks . <URL> displays CPU power consumption in Sensors > CPU Package Total . Approximate CPU use and power consumption on my iMac : 5 % : 5W 100 % : 13W 400 % : 25W So 1 percentage point increase in CPU use ( for one core ) from being near-idle might correspond to 1-2 % increase in CPU power consumption . The ratio might be higher for laptops though . And the percentage change in total power consumption depends on the power consumption of displays and other components . Idle power consumptions with display off or at maximum brightness : 11-inch MacBook Air : 4.7 W , 9.0 W 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina Display : 5.3 W , 17.6 W 21.5-inch iMac : 14.1 W , 41.8 W
More amps will not mean faster charging . The iPhone ( and any electronic device ) will only take as much current as it requires , and no more . The iPhone will take 1A to charge , and an iPad will take 2.1 A. There 's no harm in using a charger that is capable of providing more current than a device requires , but there 's no benefit either . Providing less current than the device requires will lead to longer charging times , or no charging at all .
When I travel , I only bring my iPad charger and use it interchangeably with my iPhone 4 without noticing any battery life performance and by that extension it should be the same for iPhone 4s . Apple 's <URL> seems to confirm this ; For the 10W USB iPad charger - " It also charges iPhone and all iPod models with a dock connector . "
The iPod classic has no NVRAM/PRAM or settings that degrade when battery power is disconnected . Unless you want to roll the risk that opening the device causes irreparable harm into the definition of " replacing the battery " - you are safe to go . Just like you can pull a hard drive and place it in a new computer - same with the drives in a classic iPod - everything important is on the drive . I would put this in the class of putting a spare tire on a car . Even if you 've never done it before , you get out the manual and most people can do this themselves - especially if you are not in a rush . Likewise , those that really should n't attempt the operation generally have a good intuition that they are not up to the task . I say , dive in and replace your battery once you 've read up on which connectors are fragile for your specific model . Cracking the case is by far the hardest part of the surgery .
If everything else was equal ( CPU architecture , generation , manufacturing process , OS , power management strategy , software running etc. ) the answer is maybe . Modern CPUs like the i3/i5/i7 series downclock themselves when idle so it depends what you 're doing and what the actual CPUs are . If everything is as equal as you can make it and you compare CPUs of identical generation , one with maximum clock speed higher than the other and you are using the CPUs to their maximum capacity - then the more powerful CPU does drain the battery faster - but it gets more work done in the same time too , and might get back to the idle state faster . You can only really answer this question if you test your exact scenario .
There wo n't be a problem . I 'm not 100 % sure that upgrading to iOS 8 will be in your best interest , though , because I 've seen lots of reports of people with 4Ss having performance problems on iOS 8 .
The retina display of the new iPad has both ... a four times higher pixel density a better color saturation More vibrant colors will improve the looks of anything displayed on the screen . So this should make " non-retina compatible " games more fun as well . However , all of the iOS apps by Apple are in high-res and due to the huge difference in the used pixels , non-retina apps will appear to have worse graphics . The retina display is theoratically able to display four times the content . Apps that make use of only 1/4 of the pixel resolution are perceived less detailed .
Beware of legal issues . You can but you 'll need to jailbreak , use extra hardware ( plug a mic into the headphone jack ) , or use 3rd party SIP software . For example , Google Voice has an iPhone app , and Google Voice supports call recording . Google Voice does announce to both parties that it is recording the call .
In short you ca n't . Apple has a very efficient supply chain so the window where they sell devices that are n't the latest version is very limited . On occasion a service replacement unit can sit in the " supply " chain a bit longer , so I have seen several people still getting phones from the Genius Bar / AppleCare with iOS 4 loaded . I would expect that to be mostly over as well . You will likely have to find a seller of a device and you can always ask for the serial number or look for one with AppleCare still active in case you have suspicions of the motivation of the seller . ( and since you or others may wonder ) There really is n't a good way to tell if a phone has been stolen ( no police database ( and if there were it could always be reported stolen at a later date ) . Due to privacy concerns you ca n't get data on prior owners from Apple . You do run the risk of problems if the device you buy ends up being stolen goods . You do run the risk of having to do some work to ensure any return policy is workable if you need to locate the seller if the phone does n't work as advertised . Given your problem you might offer to sell a brand new in-the-box phone and once you had a buyer , use your AT&amp;T subsidy to offset the cost of a new unlocked iPhone for your wife . It all depends how valuable your time is and how hot your local market is for current AT&amp;T phones . I would feel a lot more comfortable buying a phone when I could come to the store with you and see the new phone being bought . You could be sure the buyer had the cash in hand and everyone should end up happy .
It might be different depending on what type of app you are using , but generally speaking , it sure is beneficial to update from 4 GB to 8 GB since 4 GB is not a lot for a Mac and you are using Xcode . The iPhoto app might not change much , because it has to load lots of photos , its latency depends more on the disk instead of the memory . The value of virtual memory might not be very informative , you should look more at swap used right below virtual memory , this is the memory that is actually stored on the disk since the physical memory is not enough . If you see that swap used is often more than zero , your priority should be absolutely to change for 8 GB memory . Otherwise , installing a SSD might be a better choice though that 's more expensive ... edit 1 : Generally speaking , I would recommend upgrading the memory over upgrading to a SSD . A SSD affects only the loading speed of things , that is , the time that it takes for the computer starts up or for an app to load itself . But the size of memory affects the speed of apps when you are opening lots of them . On the Mac , the concept is switching more and more to holding the app inactive in the background instead of closing them completely , that enables the apps to respond quickly since we do n't have to load them again from disk . Despite Apple 's memory compression technology , opening lots of apps still takes a considerable amount of memory , so upgrading the memory prevents the mac to swap some memory to disk , and makes the mac faster when you have lots of apps in the background .
end question
start question
Are tags portable , and if so how ?
Tags are not 100 % portable in that they do n't always survive mailing or copying to other computers such as Linux or Windows . On that respect , it 's more about those OS supporting the Apple filesystem . I am impressed that even copying tagged files to a SMB formatted USB drive preserves the tag metadata and most copy operations from and to another Mac via an HFS + hard drive or share does preserve the tags well in practice . ( Even copying the file to a 10.8 or older Mac did n't strip tags in my tests ) . Apple 's article covering tags , <URL> , recommends : If you want to include your Tags when sending files through Mail , Messages , or other apps , <URL> your files and folders before sending them .
It may be time to get a new Mac Pro . The processing units in these machines often do n't last forever . Otherwise , I would suggest backing up as many of your valuable files as you can , clearing your machine and reloading your OS from scratch ( i.e. Install DVD ) .
Boot Camp Assistant.app - among other apps in the Utilities folder - is protected by System Integrity Protection as outlined <URL> . By disabling SIP you will be able to <URL> . So boot to Recovery Mode by pressing cmdR while booting . Open Terminal.app ( menubar - > Utilites - > Terminal ) Enter Reboot your Mac Edit the file / Applications/Utilities/Boot Camp Assistant.app / Contents/Info . plist Reboot again to Recovery Mode and enable SIP again : Reboot your Mac You should also be able to edit the file directly after booting to Recovery Mode without disabling SIP : You 'd have to make notes how and what to add though because you may have no real internet access . Even if you can create a USB Windows installer , this does not necessarily mean that you can boot your Mac to Windows using this flash drive .
First you should figure out whether or not compression is worth it . This depends largely on the type of content you 're storing . If the content is not compressible ( JPEG images , most video formats , ZIP archives , etc. ) , there 's little benefit and the added overhead of decompression may even cause a ( minor ) slowdown in file access . HFS + compression is most likely the wrong tool , for several reasons . First , compression is n't transparent , only decompression is . That is , if a file is stored compressed , it will be transparently decompressed when being read , but a newly created file will not be compressed by default . Worse , when you overwrite or append to a compressed file , it will once again be stored without HFS + compression . Therefore , if you wanted to use HFS + compression with user data , you would need to copy the entire volume first ( using ditto or afsctool ) , file by file . On 60 TB this might take rather a long time . Furthermore you would regularly have to run a process that determines which files were added/modified recently ( or are n't compressed ) and ( re ) compresses those . As the ditto man page states , HFS + compression " is only intended to be used in installation and backup scenarios that involve system files " . It 's great for your folder , but not very suitable for your filer . Only if you 're really desperate for capacity and have a lot of files that never get written to I would even consider it . Key being desperate :) I 'm not aware of any transparent file system level compression packages for OS X. ZFS supports transparent file system compression , but switching your filers OS and FS may not be an option ( since sadly there 's no complete ZFS implementation for Mac OS X ) .
If your battery is at 100 % and your MacBook is plugged in then the battery is n't charging or discharging , so it is n't using a charging cycle .
Yes , the two models are physically different . The radio is different . As <URL> , the radio frequencies are n't the same . The verizon iPad supports Verizon LTE , and as per <URL> , AT&amp;T 3G . However , the Verizon iPad does not support all LTE frequencies that the AT&amp;T iPad does . From Apple.com : Wi-Fi + 4G for AT&amp;T model : 4G LTE ( 700 , 2100 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Wi-Fi + 4G for Verizon model : 4G LTE ( 700 MHz ) ; CDMA EV-DO Rev. A ( 800 , 1900 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Notice that there are some differences between the listed frequencies . They 're nearly the same , but not quite . Edit : To confirm , the difference is a hardware difference , not a software imposed limitation on AT&amp;T LTE . From <URL> : The Verizon iPad hardware supports only the 700 MHz band for LTE to match the carrier 's technology , while the GSM version sold for use on AT&amp;T 's network supports both the 700 MHz and 2100 MHz bands as used by that carrier . If you 're looking to travel internationally , go with the AT&amp;T iPad . ( I got the Verizon iPad because I wanted the free hotspot feature , which AT&amp;T does not offer for free at this time . )
Here is your answer to that : No , it is not supported . Source : <URL>
Disadvantages : Potential reduced stability of the iDevice More-than-usual application crashes Unusual application behavior Buggy connections ( like WiFi ) , especially on beta releases of jailbreaks . ( In other words : wait until the people who write the jailbreak say it is ready for regular use . Otherwise , expect occasional pain . ) Potential failure of application features Most notably of late was the issue that iBooks would lock users out of DRM 'd material if they were jailbroken . It could determine this by attempting to run unsigned code , which if it ran , would let iBooks know the device was jailbroken . A hack was released later to resolve the issue , but there is always the chance another application will also implement such features . Inability to receive Apple support Apple does n't want to support any jailbroken device ( nor should they be required to do so ) . If you run into something critical , restore/upgrade to an unjailbroken state first , at which point Apple should be able to help . ( Although chances are very good the particular problem will also have gone away . ) Increased Memory Load On the iPhone 4 it is n't as obvious , but it is ( IMO ) very obvious on the iPad 1 -- when you add services that must always be running ( e.g. , SBSettings , etc. ) you increase the memory load on the device . Apps that were previously very close to running out of memory may do so when they least expect it , leading to unexpected crashes . This is n't particularly the fault of the jailbreak itself -- but typically one does n't jailbreak and then not install other jailbreak-specific apps . Increased Likelihood of Strange Behaviour after iOS upgrades Example : I had a 5-row keyboard installed on my iPhone 4 . After I upgraded to 4.3.2 , I ran into an immediate problem : whenever I needed my keyboard , most of it did n't appear , and most of it did n't work . Apparently parts of the 5-row keyboard configuration had stayed around after the upgrade , and the only fix was to go into General - > Keyboards and switch to the English keyboard . ( At the time there was no untethered jailbreak for 4.3.2 , or I would have continued the jailbreak , which likely would also have restored keyboard functionality . ) Increased Security Concerns Jailbreaking can oft mean adding software that has n't been through Apple 's vetting process , which may make it easier to get malware or other software that does " bad things " . If you add SSH functionality , be sure to change the root and mobile passwords ; otherwise you 'll get hacked in no time flat . On the other hand , you can also sometimes get increased security . IIRC , there was a Cydia app that was used to add security to the device ( essentially something Apple should have done , but had n't to that point ) . Personally , the pros of jailbreaking far outweigh the possible cons . I 've had far more strange behavior than typical for an iDevice , yes , but I also expect it and know how to deal with it . Some features are such that I really expect that Apple should have implemented them to begin with , and sometimes Apple does occasionally remove one or two particular jailbreaking reasons . But until they satisfy my ( very ) long list of jailbreaking features , I 'll keep on doing it .
I had a similar issue , it seems as once the song is uploaded to iCloud via iTunes match it becomes the " Master " copy . Install iTunes 10.5.1 or later on another PC and connect it to iTunes Match but DO NOT download anything ! Then you can delete songs from iCloud , do n't worry this wo n't delete them from your main iTunes library . Once deleted go back to your main iTunes machine and change the metadata , then choose add to iCloud for the song . The new metadata will now be ULd to iCloud .
The reason why they release patches so often , iTunes is the app where all their management of iPhone and iPad occurs , which means they often need to update it to add support for new iPhone/iPad/iPod touch models , and to support new features in those products . The fact that it is also where they handle a lot of their DRM ( which they may have contractual obligations to update in some instances ) probably is part of the reason as well . The fundamental issue with delta patches is that they are more complex , and have higher support costs for the vendor . A full updater can run against any version of the app that is installed , a delta patcher most be made against specific version . A full updater will work regardless of whether the app has been modified ( user hacking the binary to do something , tweaking the artwork , etc ) , a delta updater will fail against a modified app . Given the extra work involved in preparing a delta patch , and the increased chance that it wo n't work , they tend to only be used in very specific cases . Apple tends to create delta updates for software updates , but they only create a delta against the most recent released version of the OS , rather than making dozens of versions that work with every release they make the one that will get most people , and then for everyone else they do a combo update that is a full updater that also incorporates every previous software update as well . For smaller things like iTunes , they do n't tend to bother with delta updates at all due to the increased workload , support , the increased number of versions that exist , and the fact that iTunes is fairly small in the scheme of things ( it is smaller than an OS update , or an iPhone/iPad firmware ) .
In general yes - but there are some functions that are only in Excel . Googling found <URL> for OSX Numbers
The iBooks app is better . But Amazon Kindle Store is cheaper and has a superior selection . The books Publishers are responsible for creating and making available the books in each store . Sometimes a book is exclusive to one store . In that case , you have no option of where you purchase it . When a book is available in both stores , you must compare the price and quality on a book-by-book basis . This is easy to do because both stores offer free sample chapters . Books tend to be better formatted in the iBooks Store than in Kindle 's Store . This can be critical for some genres , such as technical/programming books with graphics , code samples , and tables . The ecosystem iBookstore purchases can only be read on iPhone/iPod touch/iPad/Mac . Kindle purchases can also be read on Amazon 's dedicated Kindle devices , Microsoft Windows , iOS , BlackBerry , Mac OS X , Android , webOS , Windows Phone , as well as in a web browser . The apps iBooks app : better interface ( you even can turn off the skeuomorphic design features , if you prefer ) it has less features , but the features it does have are better : dictionary , highlighting , type/fonts , footnotes , navigation , look and feel better PDF support iBookstore built-into-the-app for convenient browsing and purchasing Kindle app : Sharing feature where you can publicly publish snippets from your book to kindle.amazon.com for linking-to in Twitter/Facebook . <URL> Amazon creates an email address for you to send documents to your Kindle via email . E.g. yourname@kindle.com Con : You have to jump out to the web browser to browse and purchase content . On an iPad , I prefer reading in iBooks because Apple executes the fundamentals better . Amazon 's Kindle app has some nice differentiating features , though . All that said , at the end of the day , nothing 's better than reading a basic novel on a standalone e-ink Kindle device .
I would say there is n't really any default music player on the iPhone . You could say that Apple 's Music-app is the one that opens when you press " Play " on the lock-screen or the " multitasking bar " , but there 's no real advantage in that . To answer your question , no . You are pretty much unable to change any default things in the non-jailbroken version of iOS . With that said , you can do some tweaks having jailbroken your device . If you would like to use Siri to play your Spotify music , there is a jailbreak app for that called <URL> . Other than that , you could use the jailbreak app <URL> . It makes the Spotify-application the one used on the multitasking bar .
The <URL> page on the Apple site states : 8GB ( two 4GB ) of 1600MHz DDR3 memory ; four user-accessible SO-DIMM slots Configurable to 16GB or 32GB . so yes , all four slots are user accessible .
As another answer pointed out , iOS 8 <URL> , much the same way FileVault encrypts a hard drive on a Mac . The more data you have , the longer it will take to de-crypt or re-encrypt all this stuff as you toggle it . The secondary reason for this is by design : Mac OS and iOS have <URL> , as most are aware ( side note : how cool is it iOS auto-fills ' underpinnings ' after I type ' UNIX ' ?! ) . UNIX systems implement a <URL> , which is designed to resist brute-force attacks because it takes so damn long . While the effectiveness of this technique has waned as processors become faster and more powerful , it 's still noticeable as the little spinny thing on your login screen just before you log in to your Mac , which would make sitting there and typing random passwords very annoying ( read up on pam_unix if this interests the developer side of your brain ) .
The shortcuts that can be set in System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Application Shortcuts are stored in and the property lists of applications ( like or ) . The shortcuts for services are stored in <URL> .
It 's the folder where iTunes saves the backUps of your iDevice . And it takes so much space because each time you sync a device , previous backUps are not deleted . Deleting the folder will , then , mean losing those backUps . Doing this regularly is advised for saving HD space . Just make sure to make a new backUp afterwards , and that you wo n't need those backUps . You can do that through iTunes too , by : Opening iTunes / Preferences / Devices . A list with all the Devices will be show . Select the one 's backUps you want to delete and click Delete Backup . Note that all of the backUps of that iDevice will be deleted .
Save a plist like this as : Then load the plist with or by logging out and back in . is supposed to open an application hidden and without raising any windows . For some document-based applications like TextEdit , it opens a new visible window if the application is open but has no visible windows . and the option for were added in 10.8 . The option is only shown in the help message and not on the man page .
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
I did figure out the problem ; my router had MAC address filtering on . So , I turned off the MAC address filtering and it works now .
end question
start question
Can I use my Time Capsule with other OSes ?
Super highly unlikely you 'll find something like Time Machine , as that relies on file-system event logging that was custom made by Apple for Mac OS X . You can , however , mount the Time Capsule 's disk drive as a file share using either AFP or SMB and use any program that will back up files to a file share , which is almost any program that backs up to disk , although beware of possible issues relating to ownership and permissions and unflushed buffers . Note that the following setup assumes you are using Airport Utility 5.6 or later but NOT Airport Utility 6.0 . If you are running Lion , 6.0 is installed by default but you can have both installed on your Mac and use both . You can download Airport Utility 5.6 <URL> . If your are on Snow Leopard or earlier , you probably already have 5.6 . Airport Utility 6.0 is greatly simplified and <URL> that were available in 5.6 . You need to explicitly enable File Sharing on the Time Capsule using the AirPort Utility . From the AirPort Utility , select the Time Capsule , select Manual Setup , click on the Disks tab . That should present you with the " Disks " pane , which should list the disks in and attached to the Time Capsule . Note that like Disk Utility , the list is hierarchical , with drive partitions listed under drive devices . My Time Capsule just has the internal drive with one partition . ( Click on the triangle next to " Time Capsule Disk " if you do n't see a partition name under it . ) Click on the partition name an the right panel changes to show you information about it , including giving you the ability to change its name . This partition name is the root directory name for the SMB share , so make it short and without spaces . You should avoid hyphens , too , as sometimes hyphens are converted to spaces and sometimes spaces are converted to hyphens and it just gets unnecessarily confusing . Underscores are OK . Now select the File Sharing panel to get to the rest of the configurations you need to set . With Time Capsule firmware version 7.6 and later you have 3 choices for password protection : you can use the same password for file sharing that you use fo Time Capsule , you can use a different password , or you can go all out and set up multiple users , each with their own password ( and corresponding ownership and permissions features ) . You also want to assign it to a Workgroup if you 're using SMB and you want your Linux and Windows machine and the Time Capsule to all be in the same workgroup . The default workgroup name of " WORKGROUP " is the easiest way to go . To authenticate the SMB client for access to the Time Capsule when you have not set up individual users on the Time Capsule , you can use any ( non-blank ) username ( it is ignored ) as long as the password is correct .
If you are backing up to an external disk , the fastest way is to disable Time Machine erase the backup drive/partition with DiskUtil re-enable Time Machine OTOH you wo n't loose anything if you keep the old backups for now . As every time slice within TM is a full backup you can still recover up to " now " .
Yes , it 's straightforward to do it , even though it would take quite sometime to complete depending on the size of your current backups . Follow the detailed procedure at <URL> . Here 's a summary of what 's required and the steps . The backups go into a sparsebundle on a . So you need to create that sparsebundle on the , mount it in and then copy over everything from your USB drive into the mounted volume . Here are the basic steps with some additional information : Configure to back up to the and start a backup . This will make it create the sparsebundle . Cancel the backup once the copying starts ( as seen in the progress window ) . Mount the sparsebundle in by double-clicking it ( or using Cmd + Down Arrow ) Delete the folder inside this volume ( you 'll be replacing it with the backup you already have ) . Open your current backup USB drive in and copy the folder from it to the partition ( mounted from the ) . Enter your administrator password and accept the prompts ( this may happen a couple of times ) .
An iPad does n't offer the same capabilities as a Wacom graphics tablet . At best -- Eazel excepted -- you 'll only be able to control the cursor on the mac or pc . There are many of those types of programs for the iPad in iTunes from the free touch mouse ( iPhone only ) to iTeleport ( iPad , US$ 25 ) . Graphics tablets are n't that expensive , especially compared to an iPad . The cheapest Wacom tablet in the USA goes for $ 200 or so . Ask someone you know to give you one for your birthday or appropriate holiday . If you know enough people , you might even be able to find one for free . I gave away my old Wacom Graphire last year when I bought a new Intuos . Ebay shows used Graphires for a variety of prices ; make sure used tablets include the pen and mouse . I also have made video tutorials using a graphics tablet and Photoshop . I have not settled on which video capture software to use . There are too many for me recommend one .
The iPad does not support using external cameras with it , as it does not have the drivers required . Thus , the iPad can not use an external camera . However , the new iPad 2 has cameras .
I do n't know of a general purpose Bluetooth only control that exists on the App store ( but that store is really hard to search these days for a needle in the haystack of apps ) , but one of the more common remote control software packages does say it will work without WiFi on the Mac . <URL> Once you 've installed the free Mac software and tested that you are OK tethering the Mac to the phone ( which can use prodigious amounts of cellular data ) you can download the free and ad supported iOS app . <URL> There is IAP to remove the ads if you really like it over time . I prefer to use the computer 's create network and tether over USB if needed for control in situations where I do n't have a pre-existing WiFi network . The apps I prefer for that are : <URL> - <URL> Rowmote Pro by Evan Schoenberg - <URL> Touchpad is truly standalone , just turn on screen sharing on your Mac and run the app . Rowmote Pro is more integrated with various apps such as spottily , hulu , etc. . . Both function fabulously as a keyboard and mouse/trackpad for OS X from iOS and I find I use both for different tasks at different times .
Yes - when you set the Time Machine to back up to the Time Capsule - you will include the internal drive by default . I would let a couple of backups complete , and then go to the settings for time machine under options and make sure the external drive is not excluded . Kick off a a backup with the external drive connected to make sure it works . If the drive is n't connected when a back up event arrives , the internal will get backed up - but the software will remember and resume backing up the external any time it is connected and a back up happens . You do n't need to always have the external drive connected for this to work , you just lose some chances to back it up when it 's not connected .
You can do this by sharing your MacBook Pro 's internet connection - typically called an ad-hoc network . You will need to connect your USB aircard , and then open System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing . ( <URL> ) Select USB from the drop down menu next to " Share your connection from : " . Then select the " Wifi " from the checkboxes below . Check the Internet Sharing option to the left , then join it with your iPhone . <URL> that you may find helpful in setting up an ad-hoc network . While you are using USB the steps <URL> should be very similar to your situation .
Yes , the application is called " Photo Booth , " and lives , I 'm pretty sure , in / Applications/Photo Booth.app After you 've taken a photo , you can drag an image to the desktop or to a folder in the Finder to save as a jpg image .
See <URL> in Apple 's Knowledge Base : Bluetooth car kit functionality is limited to audio output . Additional car kit features are not supported on iPad . The <URL> . As you can see , the first-generation iPad does n't support the Hands-Free Profile ( HFP 1.5 ) , but the iPad 2 and the third-generation iPad do , although the Phone Book Access Profile ( PBAP ) still is n't supported . There 's also <URL> where a lot of people ca n't seem to get a bluetooth headset working with their iPad . As user Dave Lucente says : The iPad is not a phone , so it should not be a surprise that cell phone head sets will not work with it .
Use to get a list of existing ( completed ) backups . Then run one or both of
Two things happen : Time Machine sees if the format is acceptable and makes a change to enforce enhanced security on that drive if needed . Time Machine makes a folder named Backups.backupdb if needed and makes a folder for each machine that uses that drive . Assuming you do n't have a Backups.backupdb folder - then everything on the drive wo n't be touched by Time Machine . If the drive is n't in a mac format , you may be asked to erase the drive and reformat it . Do use care and read any messages carefully before you start that first backup . Full details on this is at <URL> - look for the section titled Changing your backup disk about a quarter of the way down for the restrictions on which format drives are supported and which need to be erased .
In order to create a Time Machine backup to an unsupported drive ( pretty much anything that 's not formatted HFS + ) you need to run the following Terminal command : Your share will now show up as a valid Time Machine destination in the Time Machine Preference Pane . Time Machine will then create a disk image on that drive that will act just like a HFS + drive for Time Machines purposes ( hard linking , etc. ) . One advantage of using a disk image over using the entire drive is that you can limit the size it will grow to of the disk image using Disk Utility . Be sure to check Louis Gerbarg 's <URL> as well for why it 's unsupported and you have to jump through a hoop to enable it .
If You Have a Time Capsule or an AirPort Extreme Base Station with Shared USB Hard Drive If you have either a Time Capsule ( which is basically an AirPort Extreme Base Station with a built-in 500 GB or 1 TB hard drive ) or an AirPort Extreme Base Station ( AEBS ) with an attached USB hard drive , you can share out the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive and make it accessible via the Internet . To do this : Start the Airport Utility . Select your Time Capsule or AEBS . Make a note of the IP Address shown on the right -- you will need it later . Click Manual Setup . Check your " Connection Sharing " setting under the Internet Tab . The following tutorial is valid if your " Connection Sharing " is to " Share a public IP address " , the normal setup for a home network . You will need to have a static IP address , or use a free dynamic DNS service . If you have a different type of " Connection Sharing , " you probably do n't need a tutorial to set up remote access to your disk ; adapt this one as needed . Click Disks ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click File Sharing . Select ( check ) the " Enable file sharing " checkbox and the " Share disks over Ethernet WAN port " checkbox . It is strongly recommended that you also set Secure Shared Disks to " With base station password " and Guest Access to " Not allowed " ; not making these changes may allow unauthorized users to access your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive . Click Airport ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Base Station . Enter a Base Station Password and verify it in the Verify Password box . Click Advanced ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Port Mapping . Click the plus sign ( + ) to add a new port mapping . In the Public UDP Port ( s ) and Public TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type in a 4-digit port number ( e.g. , 5678 ) that you choose . In the Private IP Address box , type the internal IP address of your Time Capsule or AEBS that you wrote down in step 2 ( for example , 192.168.0.1 ) . In the Private UDP Port ( s ) and Private TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type 548 . Click Continue . In the Description box , type a descriptive name like " Time Capsule File Sharing " or " AEBS File Sharing " . Then , click Done . When you have made all changes , click Update . Your Time Capsule/AEBS will restart . Once it does , you are now ready to connect to the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive via the Internet . To do this when your MBA is away from home : In the Finder , click Go > Connect to Server . Type in the correct domain name or external IP address for your network , plus a colon and the port number you specified in step 11 . For example , " www.myhomedomain.com :5678 " or " 123.123.12.123:5678 " . Click Connect . You will be prompted for your user name and password . The user name can be anything you like ; the password should be the password for the Time Capsule/AEBS which you specified above . Click Connect . Voilà ! You are now connected to your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive from your MBA . You can access files , copy files back and forth between your MBA and the hard drive , delete files , whatever you want , as long as your MBA remains network-connected . The next time you go to connect , it should go even more quickly ( especially if you save your password in your keychain , and if you add your home IP address/domain name to your list of Favorite Servers in the Connect dialog box ) . Note that the Time Capsule/AEBS will appear in the Shared section of your Finder 's sidebar as a server , with the Base Station Name of the Time Capsule/AEBS as the server name . Taken from <URL> Additional Info : I know port forwarding can be a big hassle so I thought I would add that you could also use apple 's built in " Back To My Mac " feature . This way you can access your Time Capsule 's files as well as accessing you home mac files and screen share with your mac over a secure connection . Try this article : <URL>
AirPort Time Capsules do not come with any cloud-based storage . They are an entirely network-local backup and storage device . Whomever told you it it had storage " on the cloud " was not being truthful . You can see <URL> on Apple 's web page . As you will see : there is no mention of any cloud-based storage at all on that page .
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
Yes - once you have things set up - Windows , iOS and Mac will all see the Time Capsule even when it 's not running the network and your router still handles routing . Of course it depends on how you set up the Time Capsule since out of the box , it will want to be a router and you could hook things up in a troublesome manner unintentionally . The time capsule has a firewalled connection ( The WAN port ) that if you use , you have to tear down several settings to allow someone from " outside " the network to see the drive . The Time Capsule has several internal ethernet ports as well as potentially joining the network over WiFi which would n't be firewalled . I would set up the Time Capsule in bridge mode so it does n't turn on DHCP/NAT , etc and connect to your router if possible over ethernet to one of the <URL> . The ports you want look like this : As long as it 's in bridge mode and you connect over WiFi or a LAN port , everything should be fully functional and all Macs and PC will see the Time Capsule as if it were running the network . It might also function for <URL> and other nice to have items - but that also depends on the router settings .
Because the iPad needs more than the 500 mA that the USB 2.0 spec says computers need to provide . Macwork has <URL>
According to <URL> and other articles , yes , it does work ! ( And it functions just like any other audio input/output device -- with any application that supports audio in/out . )
Yes , however there are two versions of the MacBook battery , the Energy Star and the non-Energy Star that are incompatible with each other . So as long the pins look the same in his laptop you should be fine Check out this post on super user for more details on the different pins of the Energy Star and non-Enery Star connections for the battery . <URL>
end question
start question
How can I sleep the display from Terminal ?
In OS X 10.9 , you can simply do . This will immediately turn off your display without changing any of your settings or putting the entire host to sleep . Escalated privileges do n't seem to be required ( at least with recent versions of OS X ) , but if you get a message about inadequate privileges , you could do . Based on feedback from commenters , this is not available in OS X 10.8 or earlier .
iOS 7 , which is now in the wild , can indeed show timestamps for every message . Just slide your finger right to left in a conversation . Image : <URL> ( I literally yelled " finally ! " while sitting at my desk when I read about this . )
If you have an external display , then just closing the lid generally works . Apple calls this <URL> . But if you only have the macbook , and you want to be able to close the lid without sleep , for instance to move it from one class to another at school without having to use sleep etc , then it 's more tricky . One option it to enable internet sharing in Preferences , this requires the OS to stay running in case anyone wants to connect , but it does potentially leave you open to unwanted connections . Another way is to run an app like <URL> to do the hard work for you , it 's free - check the link . But there is no simple setting for doing this built into the OS .
If you have an iPad 2 and a iOS developer 's account ( or patience until this fall ) you can try the hot new iOS 5 feature : <URL>
The second form is useful for doing things like and is often aliased to . If you do n't want to rely on functionality and prefer an external command , serves a similar purpose : The whereis utility checks the standard binary directories for the specified programs , printing out the paths of any it finds . Because does n't use but rather the result of it may lead to different results .
As answered in the comment by bispymusic , this was resolved by using a DVI - > HDMI adaptor or cable . The Mac mini was able to output a whole new set of resolutions , and jumped straight to 1080p as the most suitable . Thanks .
It should automatically reconnect but it might take a couple of seconds , more depending on the speed of your wireless router . How long are you waiting ? It will automatically join a network if you have configured it to remember networks you have previously joined . You can check this in the System Preferences > Network page . Click on the WiFi entry then on the Advanced button . In the Wi-Fi tab is a list of Preferred Networks . Make sure your network is listed , with the correct security mode . If it is listed but not at the top , perhaps the laptop is trying other networks first . Move your preferred network to the top of the list . If that still does n't work , try deleting it from the list , click OK , click Apply . Then turn off the Wifi by clicking the " Turn WiFi off " button above . Then turn it back on and choose your network , making sure that it is set to remember . Save/Apply and close the System Preferences and try sleeping again .
You can directly copy to/from the desktop to/from fullscreen mode using drag-and-drop . You need to go via the desktop " preview " window of mission control ( at the top ) : Here 's a <URL> demonstration .
( At least on the Retina display MacBook Pro ) use the Power button the same as you previously used the Eject button . So Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power puts the display to sleep and Command ⌘ + Option ⌥ + Power puts the machine to sleep .
My terminal colors how to do it download theme from here : <URL> import into Terminal After installing SIMBL and the correct terminalcolors you can import my terminal theme from the Terminal Preferences window . other tweaks Adding this to the file will make color it 's output by default . Adding this will define colors as variables to make a prompt easier to edit . Adding this will give you a multi-line colored prompt . For a list of escape sequences to use in prompts check this <URL>
I recommend and use <URL> ( donation-ware ) . It 's much more flexible than what Apple provides .
Using the included Script Editor.app with OS X , try experimenting with these snippets . Wait 30 Seconds The following snippet will make your script wait 30 seconds before showing a dialog : Sleep The following snippet will put your Mac <URL> : Wait and then Sleep Combining the two snippets above gives an AppleScript that will wait 30 seconds before putting your Mac to sleep : Displays and Desktops I am not sure how best to determine if a monitor is connected . You could certainly poll regularly ; calling and parsing the output would work . Polling is computationally expensive and best avoided . Alternatively , maybe an approach whereby an AppleScript could determine if the number of active desktops has changed ? When two monitors are connected to my Mac , the following snippet returns a two item list : Expanding on this , the following snippet provides more display information to work with :
The command you are after is <URL> . This informs all users that the machine is going to be shutdown and tells all apps to close files etc. . The command takes a parameter - h , - r or - s to shut down , restart or sleep the Mac . The command has to be run as root so you need to use sudo . e.g. to reboot the machine immediately e.g. to shutdown the machine in 60 minutes
Control - is not a part of the set of <URL> . It is not directly representable as a keystroke in many terminal emulations . Such a keystroke is only properly detectable in certain platform-specific " scancode modes " or " GUI mode " ( where the API tells you exactly which keys and modifiers are being used ) . Your terminal emulator is beeping because it is effectively an invalid keystroke . The standard control codes only cover " Control " versions of -- ( ASCII 0 - 31 ) , and ( ASCII 127 ) In most terminal emulator programs running with most US key layouts you may need to press Shift to generate some of the " Control codes " : C - @ is ControlShift2 ( since is Shift2 ) C - ^ is ControlShift6 ( since is Shift6 ) C - _ is ControlShift - ( since is Shift - ) However , C - ? may not always be ControlShift / ( since is Shift / ) ; C - ? is usually generated by either Backspace ( on Apple keyboards , the key labeled just " delete " without the additional symbol ⌦ ) or Delete ( the one with ⌦ on Apple keyboards ) . In tty-based Emacs , you can usually use C - _ for instead of C - / .
I 'm going to start off backwards . 4k Display will require some sort of cable , wether DVI , Display port , or Thunderbolt that is from manufacturer to manufacturer and model to model different . According to the tech specs of 4K it is compatible with Display port 1.2 . According to : <URL> " Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , both at millions of colors " This could however simply be that Apple has only tested it on displays with that resolution and once 4k displays are out in the real world people can test it . So your MBP Retina can support 2 external displays and the use of the the clamshell display at the same time . Those external display can be attached via HDMI and Thunderbolt ( adapters ) or both via Thunderbolt adapters . But so far the tech specs limit the resolution to 2560x1600 . It could also be that the resolution output could be enhanced with a software update ( firmware update ) at a later time . Archived Specifications page : <URL> <URL> .
You can read the recent items plist file . There 's a lot of " noise " in the output . You can filter the " noise " with and list the last entry with which should be the last file opened ( but not always the case ) .
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
Thanks for your help Graham , but I decided to take a look at my logic board and found some places that had been corroded . I removed my logic board and gave it a good clean with isopropyl alcohol and a toothbrush and for now my mac has stopped going to sleep on its own , also fans are back to normal .
There 's no official way to achieve this . You have to jailbreak your iPad and use a software like <URL> ( works on all iDevices ) to do this .
Use the command The command is So , after you SSH in as the admin , issue the command : That will set the preferences value for the particular user you are interested in without having to know their password . I personally checked this on OS X 10.11.4 using an account called " testguy " . I was able to SSH into the machine , set the preferences using the command you provided and verify that it was set by issuing the command : The response was ( true )
end question
start question
Can I force Safari on iOS to store a password , though the site disallows it ?
Actually , it seems you can do this ! I just found the settings under Safari - > Passwords and auto-fill . The setting is called " always allow " .
I found the answer : log out of MobileMe in the System Prefs panel , and then the iCloud panel will prompt you to log in ( instead of offering the " Move to iCloud " button ) . Log in with your iCloud account and you should be all set . Worked perfectly for me .
Yes - all computer batteries from Apple ( including the newer unibody models where the battery is not consumer replaceable ) are easily swapped in a 10 minute procedure to open , inspect , replace , test and document the repair . Of course , your wait time might be longer if no one is free to start work immediately or the part needs to be retrieved from a nearby stock room . If the part is n't in stock , Apple should be able to quote you a delivery time to order the part , and discuss if you want to leave the Mac for service , choose mail in service or leave with your mac and return later to get the repair done as same - or next-day service once the part and the Mac are in the shop together . Since you called AppleCare and explained your symptoms , my guess is they can not run the diagnostics remotely to establish a true failure ( or if you agree to pay for the repair ) and pre-order the part before you present the Mac for repair in the store . My experience is each store has sufficient stock to do several repairs of a battery type , but that being said , I 've also gone in on a busy day where they had three machines needing the same part as I and I was the third in line and therefore had the option of leaving the Mac or waiting for the part to arrive . Worst case , you get a diagnosis and do n't leave the machine in for repair , but have options to pre-order the part when you return or find another store . If the store mails in your Mac for repair , often it can get overnighted to a return location of your choosing and clearly wherever they ship the machine will be same day service for an in-stock battery at the main repair depot .
Sorry , by design the Guest users are Guests ( temporary visitors ) . They do not require password and you can not set one . Your only other alternative is to set up a user account with password . However , that could bring trouble and I would not trust the 4 years one , he/she could find how to change password and then you are locked out :)
You can reinstall the OS back to the same version that it shipped with by using the restore discs that came with your Mac to wipe your disk and reinstall Mac OS X. However , just because Apple has officially dropped support for XP and Vista with Boot Camp does n't mean it will stop working - the most likely situation will be that new computers will have hardware that Apple will only provide Windows 7 drivers for . Existing hardware should be unaffected .
Yes . Open the App Store and scroll to the bottom of the featured tab . Tap on your Apple ID and select " View Apple ID " . The tap Ratings and Reviews :
The relatively difficult-to-find solution to the problem is to go to the Note you wish to lock : in the top-right corner , tap the " Share " icon on the bottom row , there will be a lock symbol with a caption that says " Lock Note " . select that symbol you will be prompted to create a password that locks this note , but remember that this single password will secure all your protected notes , not just the note you 're on . You can also use Touch ID to secure your notes . Remember that if you secure the note , it will no longer be accessible by devices running versions of OS X older than 10.11.4 , or devices running a version of iOS different from 9.3 or higher . Next time you try to open that Note ( or others that are locked with the passcode ) , you 'll be prompted for your password to unlock it . You can change the Notes password by going to your Home screen , then Settings > Notes > Password .
There are two options . One is a setting , and the other is a workaround . Here are instructions on how to toggle the setting using the Menu Bar : Go into the View menu . Select " Show status bar " . Now , there will be a URL that pops up when you hover over a link , and also tells you if it 's going to be in a new tab : <URL> You can also press ⌘ + / to toggle this setting at ease . The second option is a workaround for when you drag links . Here 's how to get this feature to appear : Click and drag the link out of where it will originally appear . At your mouse will be a small box telling you the title of the new window and its URL , although it may be shortened . You can also drag the link to the plus sign in your tab list , out of the window , or in a folder/the desktop to open that URL in a new tab , new window or save it to your computer , respectively .
There is a jailbreak application called <URL> . It 's free by <URL> in the BigBoss Cydia repository . It allows you to view all of the passwords for the networks that you 've joined ( including usernames for WPA2 Enterprise networks ) .
Yes , however you will need to set up a provisioning profile and add each device you are installing you app on ( you are allowed to provision 100 devices ) . You do need to join the iOS Developers program for this to work ( $ 99 per year ) . Once you join the developer program you can set up your provisioning profile from the provisioning portal ( <URL> ) there is an Assistant to walk you through the process ( which IMO is a PITA ) .
You could create a text file , name it visited.css , and put this text in there : Then go to Preferences > Advanced , click Style sheet and select the . css file you just created . All links you 've visited should be in a nice purple now . ( Note that this colors every link you 've ever clicked purple , and will override the actual web design . )
No , the iTunes account are country bounded . So you ca n't buy a Spanish app with your US account . But if you 'll be in Spain for a few months , I assume you have a Spanish address ? So there is no harm in creating a new account for your few months in Spain . All you need is an address or a gift card from Spain .
Apple 's App Store requirements are very vague . <URL> for learning how to get your app rejected from the App Store . In short , it says nothing about backwards compatibility .
Using the post that <URL> <URL> , I 've written a Safari/Chrome extension that adds a button to the context menu ( right click ) on every page , which allows you to " pause " scrolling , essentially locking the page in place . To unlock it , you just right click and choose " Resume Scrolling . " You can download it <URL> .
Yes , There is an extension for this called <URL> . Here is a description of the software from it 's website : ZoomBySite is a Safari Extension that will automatically zoom each site to the zoom level of your last visit to the site . A site is defined by a unique domain name ( so www.apple.com is considered different from store.apple.com and each could have its own unique zoom level ) . It does this by intercepting the Zoom In and Zoom Out keyboard shortcuts [ ... ] . It zooms the page in or out by the desired amount ( see the Preferences section below ) and also stores the zoom level for the site . As each page loads , it checks to see if there is a stored zoom level and sets it again for the current viewing . If you change the zoom level of a site , any other tabs or windows that are open to that site will also change their zoom level .
EDIT : This has been fixed in recent versions of iOS . Please see @LukeWilliams answer which describes simply pulling to refresh the calendars in the calendars list . For deprecated versions of iOS : As of iOS 5 there is no super easy/obvious way to do this . What I have found that works , is opening Settings > Mail , Contacts , and Calenders > Tapping the email account you 'd like to refresh > turn the calendar off > wait while it deletes it > turn the calendar back on . sometimes by forcing a New Event , it triggers syncing .
There are a lot of applications doing this job : <URL> ( 1 $ ) , <URL> ( 4 $ ) , and a free <URL> , but it requires your iPad to be <URL> . Sorry , did n't found anything that would be free and , ehm , completely legal .
Actually , it seems you can do this ! I just found the settings under Safari - > Passwords and auto-fill . The setting is called " always allow " .
There 's been much debate and discussion around this topic . I believe it was beneficial for iOS back in the v3 and v4 days but now it 's not . Craig Federighi even came out recently saying it 's not necessary and it does n't increase the battery life . Apple has built-in their memory management the proper time to suspend and/or kill an app when necesssary . The only time you should force-close an app is if it has become unresponsive .
From <URL> General Once you are in the settings , go directly to the general tab . Restrictions Tap the restrictions tab and once on that screen choose enable restrictions . You will now be asked to enter a 4 digit passcode . Do not forget this passcode , there is no way to retrieve it , and a full restore ( re-installation ) of the iPhone is needed to reset it . Restriction Options After you have entered your passcode , you will now have the ability to restrict any of the functions you see on the screen . Without going through each and every option , lets just take a look at Safari . If you turn off Safari and head back to your home screen you will see that the icon is removed and there is no way possible to reach that application any more . To re-enable a function like Safari , return to the restriction page , authorize with the 4 digit passcode you entered above , and turn it back on .
end question
start question
Foolishly left old beta on my iPhone that has now expired , is my only option to restore and lose everything ?
Simply download the IPSW of the final build of iOS 8.1 from developer.apple.com , connect your device to iTunes , alt-click the Update button and select your IPSW . No data will be lost and your device will be updated .
It seems like the problem was when I enabled disk use in my iPod 's settings : Unchecking this box seems to have fixed this issue . I have n't had a problem since .
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
Technical Lithium Polymer batteries , such as those used in the iPhone , are a very well understood battery chemistry and use specific chargers to manage their charging . While the latest charging ICs Apple uses are proprietary ( they work with <URL> for their power managment ICs ) it is unlikely that Apple performs a significantly different charging process than every other battery charging IC manufacturer . This process charges the battery as quickly as reasonable while protecting the battery from damage or increased wear and tear . Please note that the charging IC - or Power Management IC - is located inside the iPhone . So this applies regardless of the external USB powering device you use to charge it . When the battery is full , the charger turns off the charging process . The battery is left alone without current going into or out of it . This is because most Lithium chemistry batteries do n't like trickle charging ( a process you may hear from others where a constant voltage and low current is applied to a battery all the time to keep it topped off ) . Charging ICs therefore turn the current completely off and power the phone itself from the charger . This is the only time the battery is n't charging or discharging - when it 's full and the phone is plugged in . The battery is n't discharged and charged in some sort of cycle after charging is complete . I 'm not sure where this myth stems from , because it would actually place additional wear and tear on the battery . Self Discharge Every battery has a " self-discharge " rate . This is the battery 's natural capacity loss when not connected to anything . For Lithium Polymer batteries this is a low ( compared to other rechargeable battery types ) 5 % per month . The charging IC does check up on the battery and if it loses significant charge over time while plugged in , it will start another charging cycle . But this would occur perhaps once every two weeks after several percent of the battery charge has been lost - certainly not over night . If you leave you phone plugged in for a month , it might start another charging cycle once or twice in that time . Conclusion The phone and its battery , therefore , will suffer absolutely no damage being plugged in for days at a time . Long term storage There is one caveat to this answer : Lithium chemistry batteries do n't like to be stored with full charges . They degrade more quickly if they are n't used and have a full charge . If you are going to store your mobile device unused for more than a month , charge it up fully , then discharge it ( watch videos over wifi or play video games ) until it 's 40-50 % charged . Then turn the device fully off . Long term use If you are using an older iPhone in a fixed installation ( picture frame on the wall , data collection , baby monitor , etc ) while turned on and in use with it plugged into a charger all the time , you should consider disconnecting the charger and discharging it fully once a month . Similar issue to the above - the battery does n't like being " stored " for long periods of time at full charge , and the charger will keep it near 100 % the entire time - degrading the battery a bit more quickly than desired . Going through a discharge cycle will exercise it and help it to last longer . Personal While I use a newer phone now , I charged my iPhone 3GS every day for 8 + hours a day ( ie , overnight ) regardless of how much charge was left - and more often than not , I had used less than 20 % on a given day . I used it for 4 years that way , and never replaced the battery - it still lasted much longer than a day . Since then ( 3 years now ) it 's been essentially an iPod touch , being charged for days a at a time when no one is using it , and being left in the car discharged for days ( or weeks ! ) at a time when it 's forgotten . Battery is still going strong , and this is certainly more than 900 charging cycles for this device . My iPhone 5 and iPad ( 3rd gen ) was used the same way . No negative impact from having them charge all night every night . I 'm now using the iPhone 6 + the same way . This is an expected use case for a mobile device , and it 's running just fine . I expect that to continue to be the case . You can leave your iPhone plugged in all night and it will not be harmful to your iPhone .
Yes you can use logmein <URL> After installing and setting things up you will just need your browser wherever you are .
Well , this is one of those things where there 's 101 ways to do it and it 's just trial and error to see which works best for you . You could try wired connections using an HDMI cable or composite AV from your iphone to your TV , or there 's a variety of aftermarket apps that may work better for you . I 've detailed some ideas below : Connect With HDMI You 'll need to purchase <URL> for this option . Plug the adapter into your device 's 30-pin iPod connector . Plug one end of an HDMI cable into the HDMI port of the adapter , and the other end into an available HDMI port on your TV . Switch your TV to the appropriate HDMI input . For earlier models such as the iPhone 4 , the original iPad , or the fourth-generation iPod Touch , the display wo n't be mirrored , but it will show photos and videos in supported apps once you start playing them on the device . Connect With Composite AV If your TV does n't support HDMI , or if it does n't have an available connection , you can link your device to the set through an analog connection , using an <URL> . Plug the adapter into your device 's 30-pin iPod connector . Plug the yellow video cable at the end of the adapter into an available analog video port on your TV . Plug the red and white audio cables at the end of the adapter into the red and white audio ports corresponding to the yellow video input on your TV . Tune your TV to the appropriate composite video input . The display wo n't be mirrored , but it will show photos and videos in supported apps once you start playing them on the device . Connect Wirelessly via Airplay Apple developed a wireless technology called AirPlay specifically for streaming content from iOS devices to other devices that support it . Make sure that your iPhone is on the same wireless network as your other AirPlay devices . On your iPhone , double-tap the Home button . Swipe the list that appears to the right , until you get to the volume and AirPlay settings . Tap the AirPlay button to bring up a list of supported AirPlay devices on your network . Tap the device to which you would like to stream . A TV icon next to the device indicates that you can stream images , video , and/or audio , while a speaker icon indicates that you can stream only audio . Connect Wirelessly via DLNA If you do n't want to shell out for an AirPlay-capable device , you may be able to use DLNA instead . These days , many modern TVs support streaming from a local network ( wired or wireless ) via the DLNA ( Digital Living Network Alliance ) standard . If your TV supports DLNA ( or sometimes just " UPnP " ) streaming , you can use your iPhone as a DLNA server . Just download and install a DLNA-server app -- <URL> , for example -- and you 're good to go . Connect Wirelessly with Aftermarket Apps You could try <URL> or <URL> as alternatives to the standard airplay functionality .
Yes , you can . As long as you backup everything to iTunes , you are safe to wipe it clean . When you connect your new iPhone to iTunes it will ask , " Do you want to load data from the currently saved backup ? " or , " Do you want to set up as a new iPhone " . You can also synchronize your iPhone with iCloud , directly from your iPhone . On your new iPhone , during first setup , you can choose to restore from iCloud . Make sure you have the latest iTunes installed nonetheless .
It sounds like somehow the database that stores all the icon positions got in a jam and needs to be flushed . You will lose all organization ( but no actual data ) if you choose to reset the home screen layout . This allows the springboard process to re-establish one icon for each app installed . Check out this answer - its for another app icon , but the scenario is really the same . <URL>
You will need to turn on AssistiveTouch prior to needing to call Emergency . Go to and turn it On . This will show a screen overlay of several options , including the home button . ( You can also just tell Siri to turn on AssistiveTouch ) Whenever you need to call Emergency , wake the iPhone the usual way and then tap the AssistiveTouch screen overlay and swipe to bring-up the ability to call Emergency .
Did n't intend to answer my own question , but I found <URL> : Apple Inc. ( AAPL ) is weighing an expansion of its AirPlay audio service to include streaming video from an iPhone or iPad to television sets , according to two people familiar with the project . Under the plan , Apple would license its AirPlay software to consumer-electronics makers that could use it in devices for streaming movies , TV shows and other video content , said the people , who asked to remain anonymous because the plans have n't been made public . Apple now only licenses AirPlay for streaming audio . Devices that could be used for video may be available this year , one of the people said . So apparently the answer is " not yet , but maybe in the future . "
My suspicion is that the Instagram app was programmed for the older OS and needs an update . You could check their support forums , but it also might be something you just wait out for the next few app updates to post from the vendor . It also could just be server side changes - if your iPad is n't served the complete resolution images , you wo n't have them . ( i.e. the problem might not exist on your device at all ) .
If you have saved it previously , open ( located in or via Spotlight ) and search for the wifi network name . If you have found it , check the lowest checkbox to reveal the password . You need your login password to do so .
It 's just a matter of hardware . The M9 coprocessor in the iPhone 6s is efficient enough to keep the microphone listening all the time without murdering the battery , unlike the chips in older devices . From the article your question links to : With iPhone 6s , the device is constantly monitoring audio input in the background , a process made possible by the highly efficient M9 motion coprocessor embedded in Apple 's new A9 system-on-chip .
Menu > About this Mac Then the Storage tab For cleanup , <URL> exists for Mac ; there 's also <URL> &amp; a whole raft of others . I would n't particularly recommend any of them , as they 've all been known to throw out the wrong bit , just like on Windows .
As they say in the iPhone world , <URL> :-) It 's called <URL> .
Nomenclature The terms 2G , 3G and 4G do not refer to a specific wireless standard , but a a whole bunch of different standards : There has been controversy on what standards should be referred to as 4G . When Apple introduced the iPhone 4S , they followed other companies in referring to HSDPA as a 4G standard . HSPA + is the successor to HSDPA . DC-HSPA + Technically , HSDPA and HSPA + are 3G wireless standards . However , HSPA + has received technological upgrades which increased the theoretical throughput to become similar to that of LTE . If 4G were to indicate speed rather than a wireless standard , it 's legitimate to refer to the upgraded HSPA + as 4G . However , this improved HSPA + should be referred to as DC-HSPA + , not merely HSPA + .
There is a small print at the bottom of the download info page for the GarageBand ver 10.1 . - Requires Apple Music Connect Account Do you have one ? But here is the good news . I do not have the Apple Music Connect and was able to get the GarageBand 10.1 update . I have a MBA 2012 with Mavericks ( 10.9.5 ) and here is the process I had to do . need to accept this then continue with download You will be asked to log in again to complete the download/installation . And it is ready to go :
Have you tried repairing the disk permissions via Disk Utility ? If that does n't work , try enabling the root account , logging in , and attempting to access the files . Use the " System Administrator " account to access the files : navigate to the folder " / System/Library/CoreServices / " and open " Directory Utility.app " Click the padlock in the " Edit " menu , choose " Enable root user " from the Apple menu , choose " Log out " log in as " System Administrator " ( or " root " ) and you will have access to the files in " / Users/Abby "
You will need to renew your dev certificate and your provisions to upload apps from Xcode to stock iOS devices .
Two possible answers ... Assuming you 've not actively deleted them from iTunes as well as from your iPhone ... Upgrade to iTunes 10.x if you have n't already Plug your iPhone into your Mac , open iTunes , sync it . Click on the iPhone in the side bar and go to the Apps tab You 'll see that some apps are checked and others are not . This is an indicator of whether or not they 're installed on the device . Pretty sure this got introduced in iTunes 10.x ( hence the first step ) Assuming you do n't delete your old emails ... ( e.g. Archive in GMail ) The iTunes store should have emailed you summaries of the apps you 've purchased ( even the free ones ) shortly after their ' purchase ' , so , if you have an email account where you 've kept those emails , you could search through them to get a list of each app you 've purchased from the iTunes store .
end question
start question
I deleted songs right off my iPod , why are they again in my iPod after syncing ?
You need to tell iTunes not to sync those songs . Uncheck the songs you do not want to sync in the iTunes " Music " list . Check " Sync only checked songs and Videos " in the options for the device .
Finally found an answer to this , <URL> Create a standard playlist called " Not Missing " . Drag your entire library into that playlist . Missing tracks can not be copied to a playlist . Create a smart playlist called " Missing " where : Playlist - is not - Not Missing ( additional to this post ) Media type - is - Music You now have a playlist which contains only your songs with the dreaded exclamation mark , and you can re-add them from your original source .
You need to tell iTunes not to sync those songs . Uncheck the songs you do not want to sync in the iTunes " Music " list . Check " Sync only checked songs and Videos " in the options for the device .
As of iOS 5 , this problem is even simpler . Many views will scroll overflowing information , but you can also simply tap and hold on many sources of text in order to view them in a significantly smaller font size in a back pop-up tooltip , which greatly expands the amount of text that can be fit in the width of the iPhone 's screen size . Note that my previous answer still applies ( below ) , but this tooltip is usually quite a bit faster and much more direct . For all iOS versions before iOS 5 : My answer on the <URL> Question covers this as well . You can use Cover Flow view ( rotate your device to Landscape while in the iPod/Music app after selecting a song ) in order to greatly increase the amount of room used to display song information . Your title is particularly large , I do n't know what the landscape/Cover Flow view limit is . I do n't have any songs that exceed it yet :) .
Suggestion 1 : I think you would be a new user to the iPod/iPhone/osx / iTunes family . If your afraid or do n't understand what is happening during synchronization using iTunes , I suggest you to use a utility called <URL> Just Explorer the iPhone/iPod/iPad like a file system . You would get your images under directory . images are grouped in directories like , and so on . Just explore and copy it . Suggestion 2 : Synchronization - means A single machine and an iPod synchronization . Not multiple machines and an iPod . If you synchronizes from other machine it will erase all of your old data . According to me , you had the problem just because you might have synchronized from other machines iTunes .
I ca n't comprehend the behavior of LoginItems in El Capitan 10.11.3 . But one measure is to delete com.apple.loginitems.plist and then re-populate it from scratch . Another workaround is to simply lock the file after adding all items which should be started after logging in .
They 're located at . Each application has its own individual folder under Mobile Documents where its documents and settings are stored .
It appears Parallels is the cause of the issue . Found some instructions on <URL> and executed step 1 . DVDs now working great !
It look like <URL> who is fighting this issue . That guy uses the same router ( Linksys WRT54GL ) as I do and just switched the WLAN channel to solve the problem . This does also solve the problem for me .
This is included by Apple in the latest iOS . You want to list that network as Auto-Login in the preferences for that network . When you are in range , you first have to go to the Wi-Fi Networks sheet in Settings.app , Press the white > with the blue circle and set your preferences for each network : Auto-Login controls whether the log in credentials are saved , so turn that on . You do n't need to enable auto-join , but it will reduce the taps to re-join this saved network if the device sleeps or is really out of range . Turning on Auto-Login makes the device attempt to load www.apple.com and watches as you enter the wifi credentials needed for whatever web site is used to join the wifi network . Many open public sites are automated so do n't worry if it sets itself up without prompting you at this point .
I just updated to iOS 8.1.2 which was released last evening and the issue is fixed . Apple listed this as one bug that the update is intended to fix , so it 's pretty clear this bug was recently introduced and not something anyone did incorrectly .
This separation of " sound effects " and " games/music " exists in iPod Touch 4 as well . There is no way for tuning a master volume on these devices . But you can set the " sound effects " volume as constant ( - - turn off ) and pressing volume buttons will only change the " games/music " volume .
Well , two trips to the genius bar could n't solve it ( " you need to start a new library from scratch and retag your 15,000 photos " - WHAT ?!?! ) , but I dug around and experimented and finally came up with the answer : iTunes wo n't sync pictures without up-to-date previews ; so , if they stop auto-generating for some reason , you have to force it to update previews for the pictures that are n't syncing . You may want to go to iTunes and select " Sync all Photos " and note the number of photos that appears in the upper right of the window , so you can make sure that it 's higher after this process . Go to Aperture and select " Photos " up near the top of your library , in order to select your whole library of pics . In the " Photos " menu up top , you should see " update previews for library " . ( If you 're not seeing it , you probably skipped step 2 , or selected an individual photo , in which case , it will be replaced with " update preview " . You want to do it for everything , so be sure to highlight " photos " first . That may take some time , depending how many you were missing , but once it 's done , go back to iPhoto , and uncheck " sync all photos " and then recheck it . That should force it to recount the pics , and you should now see a number that matches your library ( less any in a format that iTunes ca n't handle . )
I ended up signing up for iTunes Match over the weekend and I figured I 'd share my experience to anyone who had the same questions I did ... After going through and organizing my collection I came up with about 250 artists and just over 10k songs in total . I signed up for iTunes Match and it did a fantastic job of collecting the metadata , matching available songs , and uploading remaining songs . There were a few small issues with some ineligible songs and duplicates , but nothing major . I 'd say it took about 24 hours total to get everything synced up , but I 'm sure experiences vary widely here . Then after double-checking everything I just went ahead and deleted all my files in iTunes . I would click a given set of songs and then tap the delete key . When prompted , I would select NOT to delete from iCloud , but to move the local files to the trash . After I was finished I had a clean local hard drive and all my music was available for streaming from the cloud ... which is precisely what I wanted . When I enabled iTunes Match on my other computer ( which had a blank iTunes Music section ) , it took all of five seconds to sync up perfectly with my collection in the cloud . So I 'm now able to stream music from iTunes on my Macbook Pro and iMac . Those who are looking to stream to iOS might be out of luck , because from what I 've seen you have to download the songs from iCloud to your device ( although the songs will play as they are downloading ... and I suppose there is nothing to stop you from deleting the files afterward ) . But this ended up being a perfect solution for me since I primarily use Rdio now anyway . I just wanted to delete the 100GB worth of local mp3 files that were cluttering my local hard drive and iTunes Match helped me to do that and still keep my collection out there in the cloud . There still is n't a perfect solution in the music technology world just yet , but I ca n't say enough good things about services like Rdio and iTunes Match . They 've worked great for me .
Turns out the real problem is when I sync with Foobar . Looks like I 'm stuck with iTunes .
No ( for iOS 6 and earlier ) - erasing an iOS device means you will never hear from it again . No messages , no tracking , no find my device since at that point . Even if " your device " checks back in with Apple , it is no longer associated with your account . This is covered by Apple here in this article : <URL> After you erase all the information on an iOS device , you wo n't be able to use Find My iPhone to locate it or send it a message . Someone can enter a new ( or your account ) back into that device and only then will it resume checking in with the new account/password combination to be tracked . The only way you might get a notification is if you first send the locate message and then the erase message and both remain queued in the proper order . Since the device was offline when you sent the two commands ( otherwise you would have located the device if it were online ) , the device could later check in and it is conceivable you will get the locate notification delivered with enough time to respond before the erase command gets sent and acted upon . Apple changed this in iOS 7 where activation lock and an enhanced lost mode can erase the device except for the tracking and registration . This brings the erase benefits without losing control of the device .
Have you looked into software like <URL> to transfer the videos ? It offers a Windows and Mac version . I prefer <URL> to this software on a Mac , but you have tagged this windows so TouchCopy seems a better fit .
If by " 3g chip " , you are referring to the iPad MicroSIM card , then no , you do not need to power off the device to switch it out . However , if you 're referring to the actual 3G radio inside the iPad , my advice is to take it to an Apple store and have the repair done by an Apple technician , as operating on the device yourself is likely to void the warranty .
Mail automatically highlights emails from Apple . You can turn this off in the Rules tab of Mail Preferences .
Some of the files used in restoring applications are located at . These files are updated while an application is running , and if it crashes they are used by the system to restore it ( if the application crashes during the restore process , OS X offers to discard the saved state when relaunching a second time ) . But some applications such as Chrome store more information elsewhere . Chrome stores your open tabs and other data in . There I see files such as and . ( For comparison , Safari uses . )
end question
start question
How can I connect an Apple TV to an older television ?
Technically the format you want is called composite video , so you might have better luck searching for a HDMI to Composite converter . RCA is just the name of the connector . For example : <URL>
Yes this is definitely possible . I have created an ad hoc network on windows 7 and connected to it with my iPad 3 . Go to control panel > Network and Sharing Center Click setup a new connection or network Scroll down and choose Click setup a wireless ad hoc network give a network name and choose WEP encryption from the dropdown list . The password should be 10 characters long and I used all numeric digits for this . tick save this network . and click next at the bottom to create the network . On your iPad or other device select your network which will be broadcast with the name you chose and connect to that network with the password yo uused in step 4 . If the device fails to connect , try repeating this process again . It took me a couple times but worked eventually . After Connecting , you must also setup network sharing in order to connect to the internet . You must have an internet connection on either LAN or a different Wireless card or some other device . Go to the Network and Sharing Center again in COntrol Panel . Choose on the left sidebar Change adapter settings to get to Network Connections select the network connection that is connected to the internet ( The LAN or alternate wireless / other device ) and right click and choose properties . Go to the Sharing tab and check Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's internet connection . Select the network connection that you were using to broadcast the ad hoc network for the associated network connection . Click on the Settings button which will bring up a window with a list of services to allow or deny for users using this internet connection via the ad hoc ICS ( internet connection sharing ) Check at least HTTP and probably HTTPS protocols , SMTP for email , POP3 for email as well if you need , etc. . . and Click Ok when you 're done . Click Ok again on the original window . In some cases you may need to restart the network connection connected to the internet for the changes to take effect . I hope this helps !
Unfortunately not , certainly not wirelessly . What you need to do is wait for iOS5 ( on the understanding that your phone will support this ) , for the implementation of the new " screen mirroring over airplay " functionality .
Indeed there is . You can try <URL> - it encodes video on the fly and sends it straight to your AppleTV . I 've used it for a while now , and although it can be a little unstable from time to time , it really is very useful . Of course , you could always install XBMC following <URL> and control it , play all sorts of video , and make tons on neat customizations however you see fit . Good luck .
The server admin tools and associated documentation will walk you through how this works on Mac OS X . There are even worksheets that help you work through the myriad possibilities before you set up OS X Server . It depends on how the server was " set up " so perhaps you can find out whether yours expects to control the user accounts and have the clients control themselves with a local policy file pointing to the server or if the server expects to set up the mac clients as well . Hit the books and do know you can ask more specific questions later of one specific item is holding you up . I prefer using <URL> until I 'm comfortable with the specifics for each site ...
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
I do n't think it 'll work . According to the Apple TV 's <URL> , playing protected content ( which I imagine means the one you 'll get from iTunes rentals and Netflix ) requires <URL> , so using a converter box probably wo n't work . At least the ones I 've found online after doing a quick search specifically say they wo n't work with HDCP .
Yes , you can . Good thing you do n't care about your warranty though . <URL>
What seems to work is signing out from my Apple ID ( using the Apple ID link at the bottom of the App Store ) , then shutting off the device ( hold the power button ) . Then I turn back on the device , go to the App store , enter my Apple ID info , and then try to download/update an app again . Just restarting or relogging in to my Apple ID alone did n't seem to be enough .
I bought the adapter from Apple to get the HDMI output from my MBP ( same as yours ) . You can visit the Apple Store for the adapters - I bought one of each adapter available , as I wanted to be prepared for whatever need I came across . The Thunderbolt port is to be used with the adapters . I also both several different lengths of HDMI cables . My TV has several HDMI input ports . The MBP automatically recognizes the TV as another monitor , so the only effort left is to get the TV setup to use that HDMI port as the Source .
My easiest solution is to get an Airport Express ( that is preconfigured with wireless settings and then hooking that up to the Apple TV ) and then access the hotel 's terms and conditions using your smart phone .
I stream music to my stereo via my AppleTV all the time without needing to turn on the TV , and control it via iOS devices . My current setup is AppleTV - > stereo via HDMI , and stereo - > tv via HDMI . The stereo turning on wakes up the AppleTV , but if the stereo is left on , starting to stream something via AirPlay also wakes up the AppleTV .
Yes ... Works with my Iphone 4s and latest Apple TV
The latest Mac models with either Thunderbolt or Mini DisplayPort ca n't directly output composite/S-Video ( older Macs with micro-DVI could do this when using the <URL> ) . Therefore you need a converter box ( powered via USB or separate power supply ) that takes a VGA signal and converts it to composite or S-Video , which can be connected to the TV . You need to get one that can supply the correct video signal for your TV ( PAL/NTSC/SECAM ) , although most will support all of those . <URL> are available in a wide price range - generally the more expensive , the better the quality ( of the signal ) . You will also need a <URL> to get a VGA signal from your Mac ( this also works with the Thunderbolt MBP ) . For the computer with DVI output you will hopefully have a graphics card that can output a VGA signal , in which case you merely need a <URL> . If it outputs only DVI , you 're in trouble , as you 'll need another converter that converts this digital signal to a VGA one . Alternatively you could get a USB graphics card that outputs TV signals directly , although I ca n't seem to find one right now . This would be act like an additional monitor , which may be preferable . In case your TV has SCART inputs ( Europe mostly ) instead of composite/S-video , you 'll also need a <URL> , although this may be included with some of the products mentioned above . The whole setup would look like this :
Once the Mail program has launched , open the Mail application Preferences . This can be done by selecting it from the Mail menu bar option or by using the " Command - , " keyboard shortcut , which simply consists of pressing ⌘ + , at the same time . Choose the " Signatures " option of the Mail Preferences window . Add a new signature profile by clicking on the " Create a Signature " button located under the second pane within the Signatures Preferences window . This button is represented by a square containing a plus ( + ) sign . See accompanying image . In the third pane located within the Mail Signatures Preferences Window , type the text of your email signature . You can also paste your text from another application , like Microsoft Word , Apple Pages or Apple TextEdit . Pasting from another application will maintain the text 's font , size and style , if that is something you need or desire . Keep in mind that some fonts may not display properly on the email recipient 's computer , depending upon the fonts you use and the fonts they have . Assuming that you have an image that you wish to add to your new signature , just drag the image from its location on your Mac ( using the Finder ) and drop it in the same pane where you just typed or pasted your new signature text . The image should appear next to or below your text . Make sure to use only web compatible images - JPG , PNG or GIF .
I believe the correct setting is found in the following location
If you turn on the ATV 's " Conference Room Display " mode ( and your ATV is connected via Wi-Fi ) , ATV shows this text with the screensaver : AirPlay Wirelessly send what 's on your iOS device or computer to this display using AirPlay . To learn more , go to apple.com/airplay . 1 Choose Wi-Fi Network ( insert name of your network here ) 2 Choose this Apple TV ( insert name of your ATV here ) Based on this , it correctly explains that you can send content from iOS to ATV over Wi-Fi . It incorrectly implies that you can ONLY send content from a computer over wi-fi . This is n't true . My Mac is connected to my router via Ethernet , and the router connects to ATV over wi-fi . So , I do n't actually have to do step # 1 ( select the wi-fi network ) on my Mac , but I do need to do that on iOS . If your ATV was connected via Ethernet , I 'm sure you 'd get a similar message , although it might not explicitly state which wi-fi network to use on your iOS device , since the ATV itself would n't be connected via wi-fi . As long as your iOS 's wi-fi network was connected to the ATV 's Ethernet network " locally " , it will still work . In a complex network , like in large corporation/office environment , you might not be able to get from the iOS 's wi-fi to the ATV 's Ethernet thru AirPlay , which might not auto-detect AirPlay devices through the various switches/routers/etc . But , in most home networks , you should be all set !
No . There is no way to interface a CD drive with an iOS device . The best way to do this is to have your iOS device registered to a copy of iTunes running on a Mac or PC , and to connect the iOS device to the Mac or PC via WiFi or a USB cable . This would presuppose that you have a suitable CD drive connected to the Mac or PC for ripping audio . However , it occurs to me that you could probably rip music to AAC or MP3 format on a Mac or PC and then email those files to yourself , check the email on your iOS device , and then open the email attachments on the iOS device . That would get the music files in there .
I 'm afraid not . You can keep running old versions of apps , but you can not download them . For example , Check the Weather was recently updated to require iOS 6 . If you have an iOS 5 device you can no longer purchase it on the device , but I can keep running the version I have as long as I do n't delete it . I understand and share your frustration .
Yes , as soon as you start the Remote app and tap the ' Menu ' button , the Apple TV will wake up .
end question
start question
Why my application icons wiggle when I press ALT key in Launchpad ?
Wiggle is the edit mode . ( so you can delete or uninstall the apps that came from the app store ) Holding alt is the quickest way to enter edit mode .
" 128 kbps AAC " - tells the system to convert audio to AAC encoded files at a quality of 128kbps so this conversion is what is taking the CPU . AAC is only for audio/video and nothing to do with still images
It could just be bonjour or some other background network process or daemon communicating . You do n't have to be explicitly browsing the web to be using network traffic Bonjour - Is a set of networking protocols to allow different machines to see each other with zero configuration . Daemon - Is just a process that runs unattended in the background . Several hundred bytes is a tiny amount of traffic , it 's nothing significant . If you would like to monitor which ports are open , use " netstat " at the terminal
This happens to me when my second screen is a TV . Some screens chop off the edges of the screen . Here are three things I 'd try : 1 Mirroring Go to System Preferences " Displays Select " Arrangement " Click " Mirror displays " Image via <URL> This makes both monitors display the same screen , forcing them to be the same aspect ratio . If the aspect ratio is different , there will be blank space around the image . 2 Change screen resolution . Go to System Preferences " Displays . Try changing the resolution for your second screen . The system will ask you to confirm if the settings work , so you do n't have to worry about accidentally messing things up . Go nuts . Image via <URL> , since I do n't have a second display connected right now . 3 Change the settings on the monitor itself . If the menu bar is still missing , try using the monitor 's menu to change the crop settings . This is is n't as likely with modern monitors , but it 's a possibility ( especially if you 're using a CRT monitor or TV ) More notes If you see a menu bar on top but it 's blank , the options should appear once you click on that screen .
Each app is placed in it 's own sandbox which limits the app 's access to files etc. . More info here : <URL>
Sadly , you might need to open the Mac and disconnect the keyboard . Here is an image from iFixit.com 's takeapart for the 15 inch model . It is protected by a metal cage - but you wo n't need to do all the steps - just get the bottom off and disconnect the battery before working on the keyboard cable . You will of course need a USB keyboard to work things temporarily and enable the bluetooth keyboard if you ca n't get there with a mouse or the trackpad only . Do read the cautions on the repair guide and be sure you are up to a delicate task . A proper Mac technician might charge $ 30 for this repair since it 's quite easy for someone with all the tools and experience getting in to the Mac .
Yet the the dock is designed to just provide charging power and to hold the device , there is no line out on the dock . This is incorrect . The description for this device <URL> ( sorry , I could n't find any information on it that was n't on a for-sale site ) has this feature listed : Built-in , 0.125-inch stereo line-out audio jack lets you attach an audio cable directly to your stereo , or run the included cassette adapter into your stereo 's tape cassette player Apparently the device does have an line out on it some place . And this is why your headphone and volume controls are disabled when you dock your phone in it .
Try doing a ' repair permissions ' in Disk Utility . A permissions error could be causing the preference to get overwritten by the default .
Go to System Preferences → Mission Control and make sure that the checkbox for Automatically rearrange Spaces based on most recent use is disabled . I am able to reproduce your scenario perfectly with this checkbox enabled and disabling this checkbox causes the spaces to be fixed in their position regardless of the switching of window position .
A free open source one if you do n't want to pay for <URL> is this one : <URL>
Google calendars other than your default calendar are treated as delegated calendars by iCal . To get them to open in the main screen go to iCal > Preferences > Accounts , select your google account , click the tab for Delegation , then check the boxes next to the calendars you want to display in your main calendar window . Now in the upper left hand corner of the iCal window , click the Calendars button which brings up the pop-up allowing you to select which calendars are visible . Check the box for the calendars you want to view . You can return to this pop up at any time to change the calendars you 're seeing at any given time .
Thankfully , you can still disable the trackpad in OS X Lion . Open System Preferences , click on Universal Access , select Mouse &amp; Trackpad and click on Trackpad Options ... at the bottom . Tick the checkbox " Ignore built-in trackpad when mouse or wireless trackpad is present " .
It must be about the batteries but for what I 've experienced so far it 's not about energy , but about their length , at a very slight scale . Since two days I had this problem again - it occured like almost 10 times this morning . So I removed the battery cover , and put a flat piece of folded paper towel upon the batteries , in a way that when I put the cover back again , it is slightly bent , just what it needs to ensure a firm pressure on the batteries , so they wo n't move at all . My conclusion is : problem solved . tl ; dr : you can fix Apple 's 80 $ mouse with 2 sheets of toilet paper
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
I tried uninstalling some applications , and files in these folders or the corresponding folders in were sometimes deleted and sometimes not : ( deleted for most applications ) Files in these folders were n't deleted for any of the applications I tested with : For example Kindle books or the database for notes in JustNotes were not deleted . You can see what files are accessed by uninstalld with and search for support files with . If you want to uninstall applications more completely , it 's probably safe to just delete the whole sandbox containers in .
This is a new " feature " that Apple introduced in Lion . To disable no key repeat , enter in Terminal , and then restart your computer . Source : <URL>
To force the usage of the discrete graphics card in your macbook you can uncheck the automatic graphics switching checkbox in the system preferences / energy saver panel As the message states , this does drain the battery faster . However , your mac should not behave as you describe , I suggest taking it to a service desk so apple can take a look at it , or call apple to ask why it is so choppy .
Your Thunderbolt monitor has a MagSafe Connector - your MBP has a MagSafe 2 Connector . Apple now supplies a <URL> with the display ( check the packaging - the adapter is small ) . If you are missing the converter , check with Apple - they should give you a replacement .
The flag icons are located in the file / System/Library/Keyboard Layouts/AppleKeyboardLayouts . bundle/Contents/Resources / AppleKeyboardLayouts-L . dat . The . dat file can be opened/read with the <URL> app . The . dat file is a flag " database " . To access the single flags in GraphicConverter use the pages drop-down menu at the bottom right of the main window . Several input method icons ( e.g. PNGs , TIFFs ) can be found at / System/Library/Input Methods/Input _ method.app / Contents/Resources / ... with Input_method . app one of the various IM.apps in / System/Library/Input Methods . The Custom Input icon may be this one : / System/Library/Input Methods/PluginIM . app/Contents/Resources / Custom.tiff .
According to the author of Skim , there is a bug in Yosemite that swapped the up and down arrow keys . Some versions of Skim had the fix , and the author later decided to remove it . In the newest version of Skim , 1.4.12 , the author re-added the workaround . From the changelog :
end question
start question
Can I change how often Lion 's " Versions " feature saves files ?
I have n't been experimenting with this for long enough to be an expert yet , but I think you 're confusing two semi-separate features : autosave and versions . Autosave saves frequently -- in TextEdit , it seems to save after about 30 seconds of inactivity . But it does n't save a new version , it just saves the current document state . Every hour and/or every time you explicitly save a version ( Command-S ) , it saves a restorable version -- one that you can revert to if you decide you 've made a mistake in editing . Once saved , the " version " does not get updated ; you can revert to it , or go into the Browse all Versions interface and copy content from it , but it 's essentially frozen . Autosave protects you against forgetting to save changes . Versions protects you against mistaken edits you wish you had n't made . They operate on different time scales ( and as far as I know , neither has customizable timing ) .
Yes , there is way . And since you 're already jailbroken , it 'll be so much easier . Just open up Cydia and search for <URL> . It 's from the ModMyi repository , which comes preconfigured with Cydia . It allows you to select the DNS server to go through when using a cellular data network , and it does it right from the Settings app .
The <URL> extension allows you to set any search engine you want . It achieves it by listening to the event , canceling the default behaviour and checking your settings for your chosen search engine . Then it puts your query into the specified search engine and displays the results . You could , too , edit the file , redirecting form any of the default search engines to the one you want , but that wont be so neat .
You can continue to use your MacBook Pro by always having it plugged into mains power . This approach will work and work well . I use an older MacBook showing " Service Battery " at home . It is always plugged into mains power . The computer works well and does everything my family need of it . Ask Apple for a Quote Before buying a new laptop , ask Apple how much a new battery would cost . The cost will be significantly lower than a brand new computer . Replace the Battery Yourself Alternatively , <URL> but Apple do not recommend this . Apple do not recommend this because incorrectly fitted batteries can be dangerous and they can be a fire hazard .
OS X Mountain Lion makes it impossible to do that , because of Security Reasons . You ca n't store your Mac App Store password or iTunes Store password in the keychain . For everything else , there 's <URL> .
System > Library > Coreservices > Menu Extras - Double click on the Displays.Menu icon Just like in the old ( 10.3 ? ) days .
Yes - iCloud includes full mail service - webmail , IMAP and iOS for free and not counting against your free 5 Gb of cloud storage quota . <URL> mentions that iCloud is free with iOS 5 . Enjoy !
Anything that allows you to change the color is paid software . Here 's <URL> Unfortunately , it looks like MightyMouse has been discontinued :( I would recommend this free software that displays a circle around your cursor . When you have n't moved your mouse for awhile and you move it , it 'll display a circle around the pointer . <URL> the software .
Terminal - > Preferences - > Settings Select a color scheme and click
No , because the capture is capturing the pixels that comprise the selected area , not the ' screen ' as it is displayed to you . It 's something I 've wished for in the past , too .
5.12.3 - exactly : Just compiled perlbrew with the new Xcode ( downloaded from the AppStore ) : compiler :
Once the folder created ( with the name Utility ) you click ( once ) on the folder to open it , once opened the name of the folder appears in bold + the different apps inside that folder . To change the name , click on the name ( shown inside the folder ) to change it .
Assuming you 've synced your contacts via Address Book then , if you want a deterministic way of syncing in addition to the periodic sync , you can invoke a sync manually from the menu bar app . OSX is a bit unpleasant in that it will only add this menu item if you set up iCloud , however , you can add this menu to your menu bar without iCloud :) To do so , you need to open a file called located in on your install volume ( usually ) . You should only need to open this file once and then the menu item will remain on your menu bar until you remove it and should persist through logins and reboots . If you want a quick terminal command to do the above then fire up Terminal and enter the following :
I figured this out : I had a problem that my font got changed size 11 , and changing back to 13 did n't fix the default - the next email would go back to 11 The solution is this : Type some text and highlight it . But instead of changing the font in the pulldown above the editing window ( which wo n't change the default ) , so this instead : With the text selected , in the top menu select Format > Font > Bigger or Smaller , till it get the size you want . ( You can also do this by hitting Command + or Command - . ) Oddly , that fixes the default , while using the normal size toggle does n't .
Go to settings > iTunes &amp; App Stores > Apple ID : Select sign out , that will clear your stored password ... Then you can enter the proper information .
<URL> can do this . Select " Streaming/Transcoding Wizard " from the File menu . Choose " Transcode/Save to file " . On the next page click " Choose " and open your AC3 file . On the next page tick " Transcode audio " and choose " MPEG 4 Audio " and choose the desired bitrate . Click " Next " , choose " MPEG 4 / MP4 " , click " Next " again and " Choose ... " where to save the file . " Next " and " Finish " . The file VideoLAN creates has the extension . mp4 , change it to . m4a and there you go .
The iCloud files are cached on your Mac , so you can access them even when you have no internet connection . They are stored in . To make it even more accessible , you can add the folder in your sidebar . There you 'll see that each application has it 's own folder with it 's own documents . Files can be added or removed in this window . To make sure you 're working in your iCloud , you can try and delete a file . Your Mac will notify you , you 're deleting the file in iCloud .
In some terms this is misunderstanding , but I hope it gets clearer soon : The Apple packaged JRE/JDK is always installed in , where " Current " is a link pointing to the actual version . Therefore , you can have multiple versions installed and use multiple versions in Xcode or other IDE . Oracle and its installers install their JDK/JRE in for the webbrowser plugin and the full JRE/JDK into . And additionally , software packages can come with their own JDK/JRE package . For instance , HP Peregrine Service Center does that . So when each application comes with its own JDK/JRE , you need to tell in some configuration which one to use . In general , for all shell driven applications there is one environment variable you usually set for this and it 's called JAVA_HOME . Software like tomcat respect this . Take a closer look at this : With the following java_home command you permanently switch over to Java 1.8 64 bit : But remember : you could do that , but do not expect certain software to follow that . In my case I installed JRE and JDK . By using the java_home command in your calling script you can always configure the right version for your application , e.g. To permanently remove the 1.7.x , read <URL>
There is an insanely detailed step by step process on how to do this using the cydia app appbackup on <URL> which basically grabs all your app data and puts it in one folder for you to ssh into and get .
In iTunes , go to the iTunes Store tab , and click on your account in the top right corner , as shown . After typing your password , you will see this page . Click ' Change Country or Region ' , and change it . All done ! Note : if you have any iTunes Store credit , you will have to spend all of it before it lets you switch countries .
end question
start question
What to use for a plain text editor ?
I would recommend using TextEdit since it is free and the default text editor on OS X . You only need to learn a key shortcut ( Shift-Command-T ) to convert the current file to plain text . Of course other GUI text editors exist on Mac platform but they need to be installed from the App Store or from Internet ( see other answers for a selection of the most popular ones ) . There is even a setting in TextEdit to let all new documents start as plain text going forward : Again , this setting is for new documents , so if a document is already open , ⇧ ⌘ T ( Format > Make Plain Text ) instantly converts a rich text document to plain text .
The closest thing I have found is Cubby . It 's a Dropbox competitor , but it has a feature known as DirectSync that allows you to sync one or more folders across computers ( Mac or PC ) without uploading them to Cubby 's cloud . The downside ? From Cubby 's FAQ : " Cubby always sets up direct UDP connections between clients unless your firewall or NAT configuration prevents it from doing so , in which case data is relayed through our data centers using a TCP based , E2E secure SSL tunnel . " IOW , it might run through their servers , which means it 's not a perfect solution for my situation . Still , it 's close .
Jfw is right , until now apple only supports their official SSD . While there are some ways to open SSD trim support on 3rd party SSD , when I used these solutions I encountered some weird problems . Besides the trim support problem , some capability problems can be solved by updating SSD 's firmware . I currently use an Intel 320 300g SSD and installed lion without trim support , it has been working wonderfully . Before I bought the Intel SSD , I had considered OWC 's products and I think their products are good on capability , however since I am live outside of the United States I did n't choose it .
Automator helps you automate ( pun intended ) repetitive actions without requiring programming knowledge . The basic building blocks of Automator are Actions . Each Action does a sigle task , that may take an input and produce an output . Automator lets you create a sequence of Actions , called Workflow . If you are familiar with UNIX it 's like a UI for pipes . Here is an Automator Workflow I use a lot , especially for downloading lecture notes in PDF from my professors ' sites : Creating <URL> is another feature I find useful . Also , you can combine the power of AppleScript with the simplicity of Automator with the " Run AppleScript " Action . As an example of both techniques , you can check out this service that <URL> . If you need more information about Automator check this <URL> . If you are a developer and want to create new Actions or need more insight into Automator , check out <URL> and the <URL> .
It depends slightly on what you mean by " highlighting text " . The PDF specification allows for highlighted text and some apps , such as GoodReader , do their highlighting by taking advantage of this . Other apps , such as iAnnotate and GoodNotes , work in a slightly different way . They consider the PDF as a background and then draw on top of it . If you draw with slightly transparent ink then you can create the effect of a highlighter pen . These two techniques are different : Proper highlighting . Main characteristics : it follows the text precisely and it goes under the text . The latter is a definite advantage , but the former can be irritating : if you have , for example , maths where the characters go above and below the line then the highlighting goes up and down as well . Overlaid highlighting . Main characteristics : it is not constrained to follow the text and it goes over the text . This means that it is much more like a real highlighter pen on paper and so you can highlight absolutely anything on the page . I use GoodReader , iAnnotate , and GoodNotes and like them all . GoodReader does " proper " highlighting whilst the other two do the " overlay " type ( GoodReader can do overlayed highlighting if you choose the pen correctly ) . I find the overlay type fits better with my reading ( but I am a mathematician ) , but GoodReader has various other benefits that make it the better choice for reading PDFs for me . ( I often have GoodReader and GoodNotes open as " adjacent " apps so that I can flip between reading a PDF and writing my ideas . )
An open-source , cross-platform solution is <URL> I did n't try it , but it has a good amount of users on iusethis .
As far as I know , there would be no way for scripts to directly access the data in a Bento database , so you would need to manually export that data every time you need to update the website . If you do n't have too many sets of data , or if the site does n't need to be updated too frequently , this might work well for you . Also , Bento is fairly limited when it comes to building relational databases . It can handle flat databases and very simple relationships , but lacks the ability to set up complex relationships between tables . If you do n't need complex relationships , and manually exporting your data is acceptable , then Bento would be a viable option that 's relatively inexpensive and fairly easy to learn and use . On the other hand , FileMaker Pro is very scriptable , allowing for almost complete control through both its own internal scripting language as well as through AppleScript . It also handles much more complex relationships . Of course , this advanced feature set also comes with a higher learning curve ( and price tag ) . However , FileMaker does have a large and active community of users that are very helpful , and there are plenty of tutorials and sample databases to help get you up to speed . While FileMaker does have built-in web publishing , there is a limit of 5 concurrent users unless you get FileMaker Server , or host your database on a 3rd party FileMaker hosting service .
There 's <URL> for a hefty $ 28.95 , though you might find a cheaper one by shopping around .
You do n't have to but your mileage will vary between the adaptors if they work or not . The Apple ones have drivers built into OS X , most of the others should work but there 'll be varying levels of success .
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
I would recommend using TextEdit since it is free and the default text editor on OS X . You only need to learn a key shortcut ( Shift-Command-T ) to convert the current file to plain text . Of course other GUI text editors exist on Mac platform but they need to be installed from the App Store or from Internet ( see other answers for a selection of the most popular ones ) . There is even a setting in TextEdit to let all new documents start as plain text going forward : Again , this setting is for new documents , so if a document is already open , ⇧ ⌘ T ( Format > Make Plain Text ) instantly converts a rich text document to plain text .
Painful to the touch - especially when the device has n't been that hot since day one - is a great time to unplug and take your rig ( computer and power adapter ) in to have things checked out . You might power off everything and try hooking just the shut down mac and see if drawing less current helps , but keep a very close eye on things and do n't leave it plugged in just in case if you have any concerns . I 've got an 85W adapter that started buzzing faintly and now it 's getting hot as well so I 've stopped using it until I can have things checked out . Also , ambient temperature is a big factor . Since things are air cooled , if you are 85 degrees F then the charger ca n't dissipate heat as well as if you were in a server room cooled to 62 degrees or so .
Apparently there is no way to do this with mavericks ' Mail.app . The option in the menu is gone and <URL> in the plist file does n't seem to work anymore either , according to <URL> and <URL> . Unfortunately you have to switch to a different mail client if you want to have proper multi-format support . Or , for testing purposes , you could just send you the email in plain text and see how it looks and then verify that both parts are present by looking at the raw mail text ( which Mail.app still lets you do ) .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts and there will be various shortuc setups for almost anything . If you see something that is not listed , Make a service in Automator and add it as shortcut : Here you see the service in Automator . It ai n't always have to be an AppleScript . You can chose other services from the Menu on the left . And here is a screenshot of enabling the service and assigning a shortcut by double clicking the shortucts on right , and pressing a combination of keys . <URL> is a full tutorial on services and automation as a little bonus to the question .
If money is n't an issue , or one that you can wrestle with , then I do n't think there is really any better tool for this than <URL> . It does n't come with interface elements by default , but there is a freely-available extensive library of options on their site <URL> .
You do n't need the iChat service . Any Jabber ( aka XMPP ) server will do ( the iChat server in OS X Server is also one , basically ) , and it can run on virtually any machine in your network . I 'm afraid I ca n't recommend one , but Google should be able to help you .
From the <URL> : 13 " : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors 15 " : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors
Most software has an <URL> associated with it -- which is essentially a contract between the licensor and purchaser , that defines how the established purchaser can use the software along with the liability of the licensor . EULA 's are deployed in many different ways ; often you might never see or know where to look for one within an application and/or on the developers website . Each application has it 's own agreement ( s ) , rules , and fine print . For every app you have it 's likely to have an agreement that is completely different from another . I had very tough time finding the EULA for Comic Life , since the website contained nothing that I could find . I eventually found it in the application under > . I downloaded the version , so the eula associated with my version likely differs from yours . I 'll spare you the entire agreement , since it 's roughly 2383 words long . Here 's Section ( B ) : B. Comic Life Single User License . This License allows you to install and use the plasq Software ( whether trial or full version ) on all your personal computers . These are computers that are exclusively used by you alone . So for this version you would need to be the only person in your classroom using the application or the computers , which seems a bit comical really :D
Oddly , the app I favor the most is <URL> due to the elegance , simplicity and design . It is fairly forgiving for novices but the middle ground is very level so as to allow you to improve without getting totally destroyed . If you have a decent strategy , you can get a lot of play in the middle ground as long as you do n't make whoppers of mistakes . I say oddly because it does n't have many bells or whistles to " teach " the game - lacks opening books , training modes , post game analysis or export functionality . It has beauty and simplicity and I find myself actually playing it because it 's gorgeous and I learn more when I play more . <URL> seems to be stronger for learning , but is not nearly as pretty and I 'm not serious enough to want to play it over Deep Green . It has fabulous end game support , databases , move puzzles and hints . It also exports the games and has a discount on the Mac version so you can take your analysis to the computer which probably makes this the best learning program . You can preview the engine and the feel of the UI <URL> to get a sense of the program . The iPhone app plays a lot like the mac app . It 's a 30 day demo and it 's not as massively strong as Fritz and some of the really bonkers engines out there .
Thanks to jherran 's comment I found the app : QuickCursor from Hog Bay Software ( <URL> ) .
end question
start question
Can the iOS 6 setup assistant be re-run a second time without erasing my iPhone ?
If I recall correctly - perhaps others can help flesh out any missing details - the setup wizard primarily lets you sign in with / sign up for an Apple ID to use for iCloud , it asks you to agree to the iCloud Terms of Service , and it asks about setting up Location Services . All of these can be accessed directly through the Settings app at any time . I do n't believe you will miss any important functionality by missing the wizard , especially if you were previously using your iPhone with iCloud in iOS5 .
Use Disk Utility to create a new partition and point Time Machine to that .
The most important thing to do before buying any iOS 7 device is check for activation lock . <URL> I do n't want to copy all the steps in case they change , but in a nutshell focus on the text that appears below in a section you need to expand : How do I check for Activation Lock before purchasing a used device ? When purchasing an iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch from someone other than Apple or an authorized Apple reseller , it is up to you to ensure that the device has been erased and is no longer linked to the previous owner 's account ... You will know that a device is ready for you to use when you are asked to " Set up your iPhone " , " Set up your iPad " , or " Set up your iPod " during the device setup process . You basically , power off the device and start it and slide to unlock . The Apple document explains in more details what you will see and how to ask the seller to properly unlock things before you take possession of the device . You might also <URL> if you ca n't meet face to face to ensure both parties deliver what they agreed upon .
I do n't know how to do it exclusively in Keynote , but it is indeed possible to mirror two of three displays . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Gigabit ethernet to gigabit ethernet . Next would be FireWire 800 to FireWire 800 . Thunderbolt target disk mode is testing to be equivalent to FireWire 800 in target disk mode . It looks like the OS can keep a gigabit link fuller than target disk mode is able , even when the target mode link has vastly higher bandwidth available .
You can switch which monitor is the " Primary " monitor by opening the Displays in Preferences and dragging and dropping the menu bar to your secondary monitor . That should make fullscreen apps use your other monitor .
It actually does n't matter . If you install Lion you can use the Time Machine backup as the source for restoring all data through Migration Assistant . It works exactly the same as if you put your old machine into target disk mode and use it as a drive for Migration Assistant . ( I was really surprised to find this out a couple of days ago when shuffling hard drives - 3 bad SSDs in a row , long story - and I was not allowed to select Time Machine to restore from because it was too large for the 240GB SSD , after using a 750GB spinning disk for a while - even though I had carefully excluded enough data to be sure it would fit . Then when Migration Assistant came up it allowed me to use the Time Machine drive to restore all the data I wanted anyway - all 90GB of it . All 's well now , and this unexpected feature of Time Machine saved me some time . )
There are several apps for extracting backups . The one I have used is <URL> , it 's been around for a while now and it is freeware , just make a donation if you find it useful to help the developer keep it updated . You simply select from which backup you want to restore by pressing the button " Read Backups " , then select from the list of application settings that can be restored . There is a detailed step by step guide <URL>
Just delete all your google.com cookies ( not the google.co.uk ones ) and it will magically start working ! See <URL>
From the <URL> page : How do I disable the update checker in 1.2.2 and below ? The update checker in Growl 1.2.2 and below will run automatically every 24 hours . The update checker in 1.2.2 admittedly is not great , and is one of the reasons that Growl is now in the App Store . For those who wish to continue to run Growl 1.2.2 , you can do so but will likely benefit from disabling the update checker . To disable the update checker , follow these steps : - Open System Preferences - Click on Growl - Click on the About tab at the top - Please make sure that you are using 1.2.2 . If you are not , please update to 1.2.2 available <URL> - Uncheck " Check for updates automatically " - Close System Preferences , you are done Since the older version is going to become less compatible over time I would honestly suggest just paying the $ 4 and upgrading to the latest version that integrates all Growl notifications into message centre , even for apps that do n't support message centre .
Yes Apple has released the <URL> ( see the bottom ) : iPhone 4s iPhone 5 iPhone 5c iPhone 5s iPod touch 5th generation iPad 2 iPad with Retina display ( iPad 3 ) iPad Air iPad mini iPad mini with Retina display
The short version : Original iPad , no . iPad 2 , yes . The details also matter for some features , per <URL> : There 's also the device specific features fine print : Turn-by-turn navigation is available only on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , and iPad 2 or later with cellular data capability . Flyover is available only on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , iPad 2 or later , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) . Siri is available on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , iPad ( 3rd generation ) , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) and requires Internet access . FaceTime video calling requires a FaceTime-enabled device for the caller and recipient and a Wi-Fi connection . FaceTime over a cellular network requires iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , or iPad ( 3rd generation ) with cellular data capability . Offline Reading List is available on iPhone 4 or later and iPad 2 or later . Made for iPhone hearing aids require iPhone 4S or iPhone 5 . Panorama is available on iPhone 4S , iPhone 5 , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) .
Yes . Most cases the developer will leave the app on the store , but just remove it from being sellable to new owners . That allows them to submit bug fixes for existing customers , not force them to upgrade , allow them to re-download things - but not have new buyers buying the wrong version ( not the latest ) . Of course , the developer or Apple can also remove the app entirely - but this is far less common . What is common is when the developer keeps the same name as far as the store is concerned . In this case , you 'll want to have a backup that you control to re-install no matter what Apple or the developer chooses .
TUN and TAP are software-based network devices . They 're usually created by VPN or ssh-tunnelling applications to handle network address translation or bridge functions from one network to another . They 're also used for virtual machine bridging and you 'll find them created by VirtualBox if you happen to use it as a VM solution . Possibly Parallels or Fusion might create them as well ( though I do n't have them on my Fusion-enabled machines ) . <URL> : Packets sent by an operating system via a TUN/TAP device are delivered to a user-space program that attaches itself to the device . A user-space program may also pass packets into a TUN/TAP device . In this case TUN/TAP device delivers ( or " injects " ) these packets to the operating system network stack thus emulating their reception from an external source . If LittleSnitch resides between your ethernet interface and the OS , a TUN/TAP pair wo n't help route traffic around it . Though it may encrypt it beyond inspection . That wikipedia lists a bunch of legitimate applications that might set up TUN/TAP pairs on your machine but that list by no means exhaustive . The pair might even be present for Little Snitch packet routing and inspection ( though , truthfully , I thought Little Snitch just enhanced OS X 's default Firewall service , not replaced it ... I may be wrong about that though ) . You can use to try and ascertain what , if any , routes are being shuffled through the TUN/TAP pair . First do an and get the value ( the MAC address ) for the pair , and then look up routes in the table that returns to see if you can spot either MAC address . If that does n't work you can use <URL> to listen on the interface ( s ) for traffic and see if you can figure out from where and to where it 's headed . There 's a homebrew recipe for Wireshark to install it : It 's a fairly complicated program to use so leave a comment if you need this expanded upon .
Go for it ! You 'll lose the jail break ( duh ! ) but it 'll restore to a normal state like any other iPhone .
iMessage can also register email address ( like your Apple ID ) , that 's how it works on iPad and iPod Touch . So it 's completely normal to be able to send iMessages with an SIM-free iPhone . As long as you are connected to a WiFi network .
Try <URL> . It lets you trigger various events , including launching scripts , based on various system events , including what networks you 're connected to . I 'm not 100 % sure if it will read any network interfaces , or just the default ones , but it 's free and probably worth a look .
Yes - the new mobile <URL> shows all sorts of photo metadata ( assuming you allowed the camera app to store it in the first place ) including the capture time . Camera roll and Photo stream are part of the Library , so you should be good to go . You can get the above screen by tapping the i with the rectangle to bring up the information for photos stored in the library . In the case of time , even if you deny location services , it should have the timestamp based on the file 's creation date/time .
Yes , It is possible to download the Bootcamp drivers outside of the Bootcamp tool : UPDATE : Apple have published a table of ' which download you need for which model ' at <URL> For WinXP , see robmathers ' answer . The hard way , taken from <URL> is , I think , no longer needed . Download from Apple the <URL> file . Do n't double-click it . Open the index-lion-snowleopard-leopard . merged-1 . sucatalog file in a text editor or word processor . Search for each occurrence -- as at August 2012 there were 6 -- of BootCampESD.pkg . For instance , the one I needed is <URL> Notice in each such URL , the / 041-2011 / or similar / 041-XXXXX / bit of it . Below each such occurrence , notice the URL for a file with the same 041-XXXXX in it and ending in English.dist , e.g. 041-2011 . English.dist Paste the URL for each such English.dist file into your browser and open that url . Here 's a list of them : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Search for the Model Identifier for your Mac . For instance MacBookPro5 ,2 or Macmini4 ,1 . For instance the 041-2011 file contains these models : MacBook2 ,1 MacBook3 ,1 MacBook4 ,1 MacBook5 ,1 MacBook5 ,2 MacBook5 ,3 MacBook6 ,1 MacBook7 ,1 MacBookAir1 ,1 MacBookAir2 ,1 MacBookAir3 ,1 MacBookAir3 ,2 MacBookPro2 ,1 MacBookPro2 ,2 MacBookPro3 ,1 MacBookPro4 ,1 MacBookPro5 ,1 MacBookPro5 ,2 MacBookPro5 ,3 MacBookPro5 ,4 MacBookPro5 ,5 MacBookPro6 ,1 MacBookPro6 ,2 MacBookPro7 ,1 MacBookPro8 ,1 MacBookPro8 ,2 MacBookPro8 ,3 MacPro1 ,1 MacPro2 ,1 MacPro3 ,1 MacPro4 ,1 MacPro5 ,1 Macmini2 ,1 Macmini3 ,1 Macmini4 ,1 iMac5 ,1 iMac6 ,1 iMac7 ,1 iMac8 ,1 iMac9 ,1 iMac10 ,1 iMac11 ,1 iMac11 ,2 iMac11 ,3 iMac12 ,1 iMac12 ,2 How do you know your Model Identifier ? Open System Information , and look in the Hardware Overview section . i.e. click Apple menu - > About this Mac - > More Info ... - > Report - > Hardware - > and now read down the Hardware Overview looking for " Model Identifier : " Having found your 041-XXXXX number , download the BootCampESD.pkg url that has your number in it . Again , here 's a list of them : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Be patient as it 's probably 600MB . Once your pkg is downloaded , double click it and install to a folder on your hard drive so you know where to find it . The folder contains a nest of folders , the last of which contains a dmg disk image file . Double click to open . Voila . Here are your Windows installer files . Copy them to a USB drive , or a burnable CD . It 's still 660MB or more , so it 's a full CD worth of burning time . Done . You can now proceed with Boot Camp assistant Windows installation . source : <URL> . The page was aimed at people struggling with BootCamp , but either way , it gets you to the BootCamp.pkg file , which contains the drivers . You still need open the OS X installer pkg file to get the the contents out , and to open a DMG file . If you are already in Windows , 7-zip will open it : <URL>
If your device is jailbroken , you can grab them from / System/Library/Audio / UISounds
end question
start question
What does resetting the PMU do ?
This <URL> has a <URL> that explains what happens when the PMU is reset . Three things are reset : Speaker volume Screen resolution Startup disk selection After resetting NVRAM or PRAM you may need to reconfigure your settings for speaker volume , screen resolution , startup disk selection , time zone information . and this list ( may not apply to all Macs ) : Another <URL> provides additional information : Some information stored in PRAM includes : Display and video settings such as refresh rate , screen resolution , number of colors Startup volume choice Speaker volume Recent kernel panic information , if any DVD region setting Note : Mac OS X stores your preselected DVD region choice in PRAM for easy access . Resetting PRAM does not allow you to change the DVD region .
If you ca n't work out what " Always Allow " does , I would suggest running something like <URL> to see what OS X changes . If it hits a plist file then you 'll be able to run defaults on it . I 'm assuming its probably in the com.apple.applicationaccess.plsit . ( But not tested )
The UI for configuring Google Contact Sync in Address Book and in iTunes is intended to support the same feature . If it is enabled in one place and not enabled in another place , it is a bug in the Apple software . Pre-iCloud , all contact syncing worked through a service called Sync Services . Google Contact Sync is one of the clients of contact syncing via Sync Services , and both Address Book and iTunes provide a user interface for enabling Google Contact Sync .
All computers running Mac OS X contain a feature called Bonjour . It works by sending multicast DNS packets out onto your current network to advertise your computer 's available services . This is how iTunes Sharing works ; your computer tells other computers that it has a shared iTunes library available , and gives the computers instructions on where to connect to it . Over the past few weeks , I have been experimenting with an extension of the service called Wide Area Bonjour . Instead of sending out multicast DNS packets to your local network , it sends out similar packets to an actual DNS server , which with the correct authentication , updates actual zones in the DNS server . This essentially allows you to use the magic of Bonjour across many networks , or even the Internet . All that 's required is that each computer that is interested in your Bonjour domain has the domain listed in its " Search Domains " ( or " DNS Suffix " ) . The service I have been testing out is Global Hostname , which will host a Wide Area Bonjour-enabled zone for you , either on your own domain , or a subdomain of globalhostname.org . Apple 's AirPort product range feature Wide Area Bonjour to enable you to control your AirPort from wherever you are . Added : Its purpose is to provide features similar to those offered by " Back to My Mac " without using the . Mac/MobileMe service . It requires that you have your own DNS server . If your service provider supports secure dynamic DNS update ( RFC 3007 ) , you can provide your Mac with a global DNS hostname so that other computers outside your local network can refer to it by name . Even if your computer 's IP address changes at regular intervals , your computer will automatically update its global DNS hostname to point to its current IP address . Your service provider or domain administrator will provide you with the necessary user name and password so your Mac can update its hostname every time its address changes . If your service provider supports Wide-Area Bonjour registrations , you can also select the " Advertise services in this domain using Bonjour " checkbox to advertise this computer 's active Sharing services in this domain . If the domain 's administrator enabled Bonjour browsing for this domain , other computers will see the services listed automatically in the respective application , based on the Search Domains entered in their Network preferences or based on information returned by DHCP . :)
the shortcut is meant to go to settings of what ever program is running in the foreground ( it will be the program in the upper left corner of your screen ) . However you can customize your shortcut settings in System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard shortcuts
Yes , if they activated " Keychain " using another device you should change your passwords . Keep in mind that activating " Keychain " in the iCloud preferences should require you to confirm the device using another device . Please check to see how your account 's authentication is currently set up ( e.g. log out of your Apple ID on your Mac ( iCloud ) , turn on iCloud using your Apple ID and try to activate " Keychain " . Now your Mac should prompt you to activate Keychain using on of your other devices .
DOE is a method to wipe disks , developed by Department of Energy as part in their manual to ensure the confidentiality of Department of Energy information . From <URL> : When Disk Utility uses the DOE-compliant 3-pass secure erase , it will write two passes of random data and then a single pass of a known data pattern . This will take anywhere from a day to a week or more , depending on the size of the drive . You can run this stress test in the background while you use your Mac for other activities .
The problem seems to have fixed itself randomly ... All I did was start using a second desktop where wallpapers do not reset . ( desktop 1 seemed to have a glitch ) . After a few days of using Desktop 2 as my main desktop , and then using desktop 3 for other work , Desktop 1 went back to normal . I am not sure why or how this happened . The solution is to work on another desktop with your preferred wallpaper settings until it fixes itself . That is what happened with me .
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
You can find some information about the guts of an iPod Shuffle <URL> . Also because the selling point of a Shuffle is price ( and portability ) while still maintaining the Apple quality I do n't think Apple would put much more components into it than what is absolutely necessary .
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
You can find the name of every shortcut in an app by using a free app called <URL> .
Apple has a very nice explanation of how Migration Assistant works , what steps and accessories you need and much more : <URL> In a nutshell , Migration Assistant has three bins of data to move : Applications ( just the programs - no user data or settings transfer ) Users ( the user data , settings , preferences , saved files and such - but no Applications . You could have all your Word docs , but no Word to edit them in this case ) Everything else that 's not an App or a User . This gets oddball things like / Users/Shared files and folders that do n't belong to one user , unix and command line tools like homebrew that get installed outside / Applications and / Users . So with three check marks ( let 's assume you do n't have multiple users ) , there are 7 combinations you could migrate - each leaving a different set of data on the destination Mac . ( If Applications was A , Users was B , and Everything else C ) You could combine them as follows : A , B , C , A+B , B+C , A+C , or A+B+C I would say , you get to experiment when you get your new Mac . Run the migration you think is best , and then test it . If you do n't like it , erase the destination Mac ( booting into recovery mode , erasing the HD and re-install a clean OS might take 25 minutes on a fast network - the OS download is 4 Gb or so ) and re-run the assistant . For me , I would recommend both migrating from your Backup and then optionally re-migrating from the old Mac . It 's important to test your backup - when was the last time you tested a restore to be sure you have a viable backup ? Everyone says " make sure you back up " but they really mean and might be better saying is , " make sure you can restore your backup and it has what you need ! " I would encourage you to configure your Time Machine on the old Mac to exclude any things you do n't want moved to the new Mac , make a back up and write down the time of the back up . Then eject the backup drive and change the backup settings to back everything up again . You could take that " latest " backup and Migrate it to the new Mac and test for a while ( re-connecting the backup drive to the old Mac ) to keep your " main " Mac backing up . As you test the new mac for a day or so , you can decide it 's time to move over . At that point , turn off Time Machine on the old Mac and connect the backup drive to the new Mac . It will offer to " inherit " the old backups and you can move forward . Worst case , you still have the backups to restore something needed and then can clear the old Mac for donation , sale or mothballing .
Both hard links and symbolic links link a path to a destination , however there is a substantial difference you should be aware of : Hard links link a path to a file . This means that if you rename/move the destination file , the hard link follows . Symbolic links link a path to a path . This means if you rename/move the destination file , the link is broken . However , later replacing the file with a different one will make the link work again . Links of both types are made with the ln tool . Hard links are made without any options , whereas symlinks are made with the option . For more information on constructing the command , see : <URL>
To fix this problem , I got my iPad charger ( which was disconnected from any power source such as a wall outlet ) , and plugged it into my iPhone , and unplugged it twice . This process fixed the iPhone .
From <URL> : Home &amp; Lock Screen . This indicates that the Home screen or Lock screen was displayed on your device . For example , the display was awakened by pressing the Home button or by a notification . If an app frequently wakes your display with notifications , you can turn off push notifications for the app in Settings > Notifications . Tap App and set Allow Notifications to Off .
I have two other suggesting that also helped me fix issues that I was having . Both of them are pretty easy too ( no need to mess with any system files or change plist or anything else like that ) . 1 ) Go to the Disk Utility app on your computer and press the buttons in following picture in the order that they are numbered . This will make OSX scan your hard disk and attempt to fix any potential file permission problems you may have . If this does n't fix the memory issue , it should a least make your computer run a little smoother . I find that doing this one in a while really helps performance on my computer ( which is fairly new by the way , so this helps even on relatively resent systems ) . ( PS . 1 ( b ) is optional , most likely it will be grayed out anyway unless you run the Disk Utility app from Network Recovery Mode or while running off a separate hard drive . ) 2 ) If you have antivirus installed on your Mac and you turned on the Scan Archives option , turn it off . The reason this feature is not on by default is that it affects the computer 's performance a lot any time you run a local java program . It sounds like a really cool thing to have on , but it comes with a serious performance draw . I 'm not sure if this will help free up your RAM , but if nothing else helps , this is a quick and easy way to speed up your computer . :)
The radio frequencies and they respective power are regulated by official sources . In the USA , you will need to go to the FCC web site to get precise numbers for the radio power output . In order to search the <URL> , you will need the FCC ID of the device you want to lookup . All devices that use radio frequency spectrum are required to print their unique FCC ID on a label on the device . It may also be printed on a separate document that accompanies the device . Example for iPhone 4S WiFi radio .
See <URL> : Cellular and wireless UMTS/HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) 802.11 b/g Wi-Fi Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR wireless technology From <URL> : In North America , GSM operates on the primary mobile communication bands 850 MHz and 1,900 MHz . In Canada , GSM-1900 is the primary band used in urban areas with 850 as a backup , and GSM-850 being the primary rural band . In the United States , regulatory requirements determine which area can use which band .
The app switcher came with limited multitasking . Before that , you pressed the home button and the front program stopped running .
end question
start question
What do I need to do to get my Apple Watch apps to launch quickly ?
All third party apps on the Watch currently are going to be slower than grabbing the iPhone , unless you ca n't get at the phone due to social constraints or it being inaccessible in a bag or pocket or some distance from you and the watch . This is because Apple has made every effort to let no code run on the watch at release . Third party apps get to run nothing on the watch . They do n't get access to the digital crown , force touch , regular touch , sensor data or the speaker/microphone directly . They only pre-load some potential answers and pictures ( think flash cards and a small photo album ) and all the work gets done on the iPhone OS . If you want an answer quickly , get your phone out and access the apps there directly . That saves the Watch from constructing a network connection to the phone , waking it up if needed , activating the app in the background and then telling the app what to do so that the phone app can then tell the watch what images / text to display . If those assets are not pre-loaded on the watch , you then have to wait for them to transfer . The watch will be faster than the phone only when the phone can push events to the watch on its own behalf . For Dark Sky - perhaps you have a severe weather alert that the phone detects in the background or due to a push notification from the Dark Sky servers to the phone using APNS . Then the phone knows there is a watch and pushes a notification to it . You 'll get that notification on the watch before you can pull out your phone . Worse , most of the apps that are shipping are programmed only in the Xcode simulator and not by developers that have used the watch . A select few developers had the chance to tweak their app with pre-release watches and in the past few weeks with hardware , but most apps just ca n't be great yet . It 's like reading a book about how to learn to ride a bike and then playing with a bike riding simulator . Developers need to go out and ride their bikes and crash , skin their knees , crash some more before they know how to actually ride that new bike . Here are some developer perspectives explaining this in more detail : <URL> <URL> The two apple watch apps I was involved in were not shipped . After evaluating the risk of shipping a smiling , we decided the benefit of being " First " was n't worth the high chance of wasting our time and our user 's time until we actually know if the app would be useful .
Yes , it is true . MacBook ( Mid 2010 ) , MacBook Air ( Late 2010 ) , MacBook Pro ( Mid 2010 ) , Mac mini ( Mid 2010 ) , iMac ( Late 2009 ) , Mac Pro ( Mid 2010 ) and later models supply multichannel audio ( up to 8 channels ) and video signals over Mini DisplayPort . There should n't be any dependencies for it to work other than an HDMI cable to use from your HDTV to your adapter . If you plan on purchasing a third party adapter make sure you confirm that it does both audio and video . <URL> <URL>
Apps are submitted as . ipa files which is really just a zipped container of a . app file . In fact , you can simply unzip a . ipa file to see its true size . Apps in the App Store are listed by their compressed size , and will need to be uncompressed after installing . As of iOS 6 , updates to apps only include files that have been changed . As of iOS 7 , updates to apps only include changes to changed files . So , I guess to answer the question directly , for any given app you would need : Free space to store the compressed app update file , free space to store the uncompressed app update file , and space currently being used by the app and all its data/caches . <URL>
In addition to the aluminium vs stainless steel case , The Apple Watch has a <URL> cover as opposed to the Apple Watch Sport 's <URL> cover . In addition , there are more options for bands that can be used with Apple Watch . Specifically , while the <URL> is sold just with the Sport band , the <URL> is available with the Sport Band , the Classic Buckle , the Milanese Loop , the Leather Loop , the Link Bracelet , and the Modern Buckle . However , you can purchase any band to go with your watch as every band will fit every watch . In effect , you can get the Apple Watch Sport model and then purchase the Milanese Loop to wear with it . Changing bands on all models is easy .
The iPhone ( apart from the obvious phone/messaging features ) , will give you an ultra-portable computing device to carry around with you when you are not near your iMac or do n't want to open the Macbook Pro . This will give you the ability to check your emails , browse websites , listen to music , watch podcasts and even record and edit videos . You will also be able to read books and take part in the eco-system of hundreds of thousands of 3rd party applications that available on the Apple App Store . Best of all , because all your devices are from Apple , you benefit from not only knowing how most of these items work and are configured , but the huge benefit of interoperability . You most probably have your music in iTunes already , so you 're music can be synced with your new iPhone . Your web bookmarks are probably already in Safari , so can be synced with Safari on the iPhone .
Have you looked into software like <URL> to transfer the videos ? It offers a Windows and Mac version . I prefer <URL> to this software on a Mac , but you have tagged this windows so TouchCopy seems a better fit .
Troubleshooting a slow mac is fairly easy , but sometimes tedious . You will want to and quit all apps . You might even go to the Users &amp; Groups preference and remove all applications that start when you log in to your Mac . Turn off WiFi and then shut down the Mac so you can start isolating it . Remove all peripherals except the keyboard , display and power cord . Power on and then log in and let it run for 5 minutes and then take a snapshot of the Activity Monitor . Look and see what CPU usage is and if the background tasks are taking any CPU time . If so , dig deeper - open terminal and run " sudo sysdiagnose " If not , go ahead and connect your peripherals one at a time . Check the CPU/Activity Monitor and watch both the Memory Pressure graph and the CPU . If you want , you can also look at energy , but that 's better for half hour snapshots for me . At this point , you should know the OS is fine and all of your peripherals and hard drives are not causing the slowness . Now go ahead and start the apps you choose to run when it 's slow . Again , you are still disconnected from any network - just checking the OS and the CPU . When that 's fine , you can conclude that the data coming in from the network was causing a load the OS was n't handling . If you can narrow things down , get a from a clean start and again when it is " slow " and post a second question with details of what your initial troubleshooting has shown .
You are able to use the Apple Watch when running without taking your iPhone with you . The caveat to do doing so is that you wo n't have access to any online services but the included fitness apps will work just fine ! This article at MacWorld has actually summarised exactly what you can and can not do when your watch is n't connected to your phone . The paragraph that might be of most interest to you is : If you want to go for a run without having to tote a bulky phone , the Apple Watch 's exercise capabilities are pretty much self-sufficient . All of the watch 's onboard sensors , such as the accelerometer and the heart rate monitor , keep on trucking even when your phone 's not around . Just fire up the Workout app , pick your exercise type and goal , and leave the iPhone at home . References : <URL>
The only things you absolutely need that is n't already included are : The monitor that you have already identified . A keyboard ; a Mac specific one would make sense , but any PC USB keyboard will do you just need to be careful to use the right settings as the layout will be subtly different A pointing device of some sort . If you are coming from PCs , you may hate Apple mice ( I do ) , but again any PC mouse will work just fine . Having said that , the Magic Trackpad is fantastic . I use one on my iMac and do not use a mouse ever on a Mac any more . Things you do n't not need but are highly recommended would include : A backup drive ! Backup your stuff ! Make it big ( 2x your internal drive at least ) and make it fast ( USB 3 or Thunderbolt if you have too much money ) Things which you might fancy but are n't really needed : A headset/headphones of some sort ( iPhones headphones with the 3 pin jack work fine ) An external DVD reader/writer ( any brand , USB ) USB cup warmers ( any brand ) Novelty stickers ( any brand , except Microsoft Plays for sure ! and Windows license keys )
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
It is possible to set a conversation in Messages to " Do Not Disturb " . This will cause notifications to stop and will put a small moon icon next to the conversation . Works great !
No , you can install Lion directly if you want . This will save you a lot of time , as you would otherwise have to upgrade from Leopard to Snow Leopard first , only to upgrade to Lion afterwards . Buy a bootable OS X Lion USB stick You can buy a bootable OS X Lion USB Thumb Drive from the Apple Store : <URL> Create a bootable OS X Lion USB stick or DVD based on the Mac App Store download Buy and download Lion from the Mac App Store . The installer should show up in your folder . Right-click on the installer and hit " Show Package Contents " . Navigate to and look for a file called . Open up Disk Utility and drag the DMG file into the left-hand sidebar . If you 're burning it to a DVD , insert your DVD , select the disk image in the sidebar , and hit the " Burn " button . Skip down to the last step to use it . If you want to burn Lion to a USB flash drive , plug it in and click on it in the left-hand sidebar in Disk Utility . Go to the Partition tab and select " 1 Partition " from the dropdown menu . Choose " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " on the left . Hit the " Options " button under the partition table and choose " GUID Partition Table " . You 'll need this to make the drive bootable on a Mac . Hit the " Apply " button when you 're done to format your drive ( note : it will erase everything on the drive ) . Click on the " Restore " tab , choose the file as the source and your flash drive as the destination . Hit the " Apply " button and it will create your bootable USB drive . Reboot into OS X and hold the option key when you hear the startup chime . You can boot into your DVD or flash drive from there .
Mac OS X does n't have ( nor had in the past ) Serial Number or " Legit Purchase " mechanism . You can buy/borrow/lend / steal/copy a copy of Snow Leopard ( or any other edition ) and install it on any number of Machines . Technically this is possible , however , according to the EULA and all the legal stuff , you ca n't ; in any case , the operating system does n't have any copy-protection mechanism . EDIT : Bear in mind that a plain OS X Snow Leopard disk is not the same as a recovery disk . Although a recovery disk contains the OS , it is usually tied to a particular model , so if you try to recover a Macbook Pro with the iMac recovery disk , that might not work . ( This has happened to me in the past trying to recover the other way around , a friend 's iMac 's HDD failed and he replaced it but could n't find his recovery disk . We tried to use my Macbook Pro 's disk but it would n't work . The same with my Mac Pro . Going to an Apple Store will possibly help in that case . In the end I found my Snow Leopard 's original disk and we used that to install his iMac .
Mac OS X home and end keys do not function the same way as they do on other systems . On Mac , the Home and End keys go to the top and bottom of a document , instead of to the beginning or end of a line . Check out this <URL> article which shows how to remap the functionality of the home and end keys to make them perform like they do on other systems .
It 's easy to tell iTunes that an audio file is an Audiobook . That will automatically put it in the right section , and not play it when shuffling . Select the tracks you want to mark as audiobooks and go to File - > Get Info - > Options . Set Media Kind : to Audiobook .
To jailbreak with Absinthe they tell you to erase all data just because the software works faster , but you can do it with all your info . It will only take more time . I recommend you to use the last version of Absinthe . To remove jailbreak you have to restore your idevice . ( it will restore with the last iOS version at the moment ) .
I 've not tried this myself but <URL> on ehow.com makes it look fairly simple using iTunes . Basically as long as the host computer is authorised for iTunes use , you can connect your old iPod , right click on the icon from within iTunes and select Transfer Purchases to get the apps onto iTunes . Then connect the target device and sync the applications to it .
Unfortunately iTunes does n't support selecting multiple applications , apart from manually selecting each one . The best option would be to disable syncing of Applications on iTunes . For iTunes sync to work correctly you either need to use it to manage your applications , or only use the iPad and download all the applications you want directly to the iPad using the App Store on the iPad .
I 'm not sure what you mean . You need to be more specific . If it 's that the Mac is tied to an Apple ID , no : only the current installation and user accounts are . Yes , you 'll need one to download the installer unless you get it some other way ( someone else downloads it , you use internet recovery , etc. ) Sort of . <URL> , you can only do so if you have a Time Machine backup of relevant files from before your upgrade . You 'd be able to move most changes back over once you finished the downgrade , but I do n't know of any easy way to restore an older version directly from the current one without losing data .
It did n't happen to me with the latest version of iPhoto yet . But the only solution I found to fix this kind of issues in iPhoto '09 without trashing the entire iPhoto library was to remove only the Faces related files . With the '11 version the procedure would be : Close iPhoto Find your iPhoto library Right click on the photo library and chose " Show Package Content " Navigate to the directory Edit : If you save your iPhoto library regularly you can restore the files instead of deleting them . To open the iPhoto bundle in Time Machine follow the instructions in <URL> . Depending on your version of iPhoto you might have to right click on and " Show Original " Delete the original in the newly opened folder . Delete the 2 Faces files in the directory Relaunch iPhoto Go to your Photos library Select all the pictures ( click on a picture then & #x 2318 ; + A to select all pictures ) . Then in the " Photos " menu select " Detect Missing Faces " You could also try removing only some of the files in the Faces directory before and relaunching iPhoto to check which file might be corrupted in your case .
end question
start question
How to install Windows 8 on Mac ?
It 's not clear if you are looking to evaluate things or make a permanent move , but there is a free solution to evaluate the software as long as you meet the terms for an evaluation license from Microsoft . <URL> and run it to make a default Windows 8 container Register for or log in to <URL> <URL> to your Mac Set that Windows ISO disk image file as the file in the " Optical disk " of the virtual machine by using the Virtual Media Manager window ( Command-D ) Start up the Windows 8 container ( it will confirm you are using the " Optical disk " to start the machine Progress through the agreements and start buttons until this screen : Do not choose the default Upgrade since you have nothing on this " new PC " . Choose Custom : Install Windows only ( advanced ) Choose the rest of the settings as you please for making your account tied into the Windows Live email and you should be up and running within 10 minutes and a couple reboots of the software " PC " . Other than learning how VirtualBox allocates the keyboard and mouse , you should have 90 days to experiment with the new Windows OS and decide if you want to dive in with BootCamp or a commercial VM solution such as <URL> or <URL> .
WhatsApp Messenger is currently not optimised for iPad , and therefore you will need to search for iPhone apps in the App Store search using the filter at the top .
I created a bootable USB stick with my Windows Vista DVD . I followed the instructions on <URL> .
If you copy the CD to a disk image on the PC , you can put the image on a USB stick and transfer it to your Air . I am not sure how to do this on Window , but I 'm sure you can find out how to do this somewhere . <URL> looks like it should do what you want . Also look at <URL>
Short answer : no . The i7 in the new 2011 Server model does n't support anything less than pretty much the original OS . Sorry dude . I wanted to do the exact same thing .
➙ ➙ : Turn off Make sure ( at the bottom of that same screen ) is on Your iDevice will no longer automatically correct misspelled words , but it will highlight them for you . As far as I know this is the only way to have spell-checking on without the Auto-Correct feature .
Windows 8 needs Boot Camp 5.1 Your Macbook can only run Boot Camp from DVD , not from USB [ same for any Superdrive-euipped Macbook ] &amp; also can , as far as I can tell , only run Boot Camp 4 . That means your only choices are Windows XP or Vista , 32-bit . See <URL>
I have done this myself . First install REFIt , an utility for dual/triple booting . It adds a useful selection of OSes on startup . It also includes a EFI/MBR fixing tool which is very useful . You might need to restart 2 times . Using the Disk Utility , add 2 more partitions to your disk . Format them FAT or FAT32 . Restart your machine , and this time , assuming you have installed REFIt , instead of choosing OS X , navigate to the partition inspector ( the hard drive icon ) . Just apply the settings it suggests . Reboot your mac and put the windows 8 disc in . The setup will allow you to format the partitions . Format both of the partitions . Install to the first partition . After installing drivers ( optional ) etc on win8 , restart and install win7 to the other partition . Sometimes the Win8 will find Win7 installed and integrate the bootloader . That means that in REFIt , choosing either one of Win7/Win8 wo n't boot . Choosing Win7/Win8 from REFIt will give you the option to boot Win7 or Win8 . Hope this helps . NB : Your Windows partitions wo n't be named . REFIt wo n't know which is win7/win8 . Or you can name it when you 've installed the first Windows .
In the old days , changing the date , deleting the preferences , or installing the trial software in a different path did the trick , but , nowadays , it seems rather unlikely that there 's such an easy way . Trial software may call home to check the database for a combination of your MAC address and your email , your IP , both , create an invisible file with a who-knows-which-name or a million different things . I mean , if there was an easy way to do so , you wont need the full version , right ? Someone might find a way , of course . But it will probably be for a specific program , not a generic way for all trial software . EDIT : Just noticed that I 'm not answering your question . Indeed , installed and used applications will leave other files , such as Preferences , stored either in your user 's preferences folder ( ~ / Library/Preferences ) or in the System-Wide preferences folder ( / Library/Preferences / ) , or Application Support Files ( which will be , again , in your user 's library folder or in the root one ) . There could be a lot more , of course . If you want to get rid of them , making a search , with Spotlight or Finder , should show them all .
Burn it with Disk Utility by adding ISO file to left pane , then choose it and press Burn on a toolbar . And that is it .
Multi-touch gestures are n't built in to Windows . you 'll need to use third party utilities to get these sort of functions . Check out <URL> for instructions on how to get the various mac functions working in Win7 .
Yes it is fully compatible . But since Windows 8 is heavily dependent on multi touch gestures , and the trackpad driver of a mac is n't the best ... well its not recommended . I use bootcamp with Windows 8 , but since Apple are the one who need to upgrade and update both the drivers and the bootcamp for almost every major Windows realise the experince might not be as good as a " native " pc , by this I mean you can get third party drivers , as I did , and it does work , but if you buy a Mac for the hardware I suggest you look at other alternatives as it does n't function as well with Windows as it does with Mac ! You can get look alikes that perform better on Windows ! I can say personally I buy Macs because of MAC OS X the hardware is only a plus , if I wasnt going to use Mac software i would probably look in to the <URL> . However the options are many , but if your main use is to buy a Mac in order to use Windows , I personally recommend you to look elsewhere , and if you are planning on partitioning your drive and only install Windows , well honestly you can get better hardware for less money . although probably uglier ! ( some exceptions ) - this is from an avid mac and pc user - If you have any questions , concerns , or need any assistance in future , please do n't hesitate to reply to me . I 'll be happy to assist you further . Update 1 : Well except for the core i7 which can probably be configured in store , you can get most ultrabooks cheaper and update the ram and ssd yourself , I think my favorite pc-ultrabook ( samsung series 9 ) is easy to upgrade yourself ! here are some links however <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> still , go in to a store and try and feel them out , focus on the trackpad ! Especially in windows 8
It 's not clear if you are looking to evaluate things or make a permanent move , but there is a free solution to evaluate the software as long as you meet the terms for an evaluation license from Microsoft . <URL> and run it to make a default Windows 8 container Register for or log in to <URL> <URL> to your Mac Set that Windows ISO disk image file as the file in the " Optical disk " of the virtual machine by using the Virtual Media Manager window ( Command-D ) Start up the Windows 8 container ( it will confirm you are using the " Optical disk " to start the machine Progress through the agreements and start buttons until this screen : Do not choose the default Upgrade since you have nothing on this " new PC " . Choose Custom : Install Windows only ( advanced ) Choose the rest of the settings as you please for making your account tied into the Windows Live email and you should be up and running within 10 minutes and a couple reboots of the software " PC " . Other than learning how VirtualBox allocates the keyboard and mouse , you should have 90 days to experiment with the new Windows OS and decide if you want to dive in with BootCamp or a commercial VM solution such as <URL> or <URL> .
This is what I found to work : Create USB stick using Apple Bootcamp Assistant ( and keep it in your machine for the duration of the installation ) . Follow the entire process ( including specifying the size of your Windows partition ) . When Bootamp Assitant reboots your machine you need to interrupt the installation by holding option until you get a choice of what disk to boot from and select Macintosh HD . Open Disk Utility , select the drive above Macintosh HD ( it should be specifying the size of the disk as a whole [ for me it is ) then choose the partitions tab . Note : If you merely select Macintosh HD you will not see the Partitions tab . Important : If you partition the drive any other way with the same partition type it will not work , I initially could n't find the partitions tab so I did something similar , but the installation process merely failed later . So you must do it this way . Once in the partitions drive , the BOOTCAMP partition should be at the bottom . Select this partition by clicking on it . Ensure it is the highlighted partition then press minus to remove it . Click apply on the bottom right to save the changes . Now press plus to add a new partition . Select this new partition and rename it to BOOTCAMP and change the partition type to ExFAT . Click apply again to save the changes . Reboot you Mac , press option again during the boot and this time select the Windows device with the USB logo on it . It 's orange . The install process will start . If you happen to have a Windows 8 key but are installing Windows 8.1 , your key wo n't work , use a generic key from <URL> to get by the installation ( you can change your product key once you have Windows running from Settings ) . When it gets to the list of partition you should see four of them . You want the last one . It will say it can not install on the partition , so make sure the 4th partition is selected and format it . Once done , you should be able to continue the installation process . During installation it will recommend default settings . Specify advanced configuration and turn off Auto Updates . It is recommend it remain off until the bootcamp drivers are installed . When it is finished prepping the install it will reboot . It will reboot 2 or 3 times during installation . Each time it reboots you will need to intervene by pressing option but from now on select the silver Windows hard drive . Do not unplug your bootable USB until windows has been completely installed ( BootCamp drivers are used from it ) . At the end of the installation it will prompt you to install the Apple Bootcamp Drivers , do it . Sources : <URL> <URL>
None of what you want is possible . And it never will be possible until suddenly Apple and Microsoft get married and the marriage is watched on live television by more than 50 million people worldwide .
My understanding is if you want to use Bootcamp , you 'll have each drive formatted and available to the software as a two-drive system and not as a one drive - fused hybrid item . <URL> Out of the box , the BootCamp software will see if you have a CoreStorage fusion drive and just put the Windows partition on the spinning HD . There , it wo n't even get to see the SSD nor likely any of the data that exists on a core storage volume ( which is a mix of files stored on the SSD and on the HDD ) . I 'd still get the fusion drive since you can always experiment with the BootCamp default situation , experiment with virtualization , and decide to partition both drives to be stand-alone and run BootCamp to install Windows on the SSD itself . Worst case , you do n't like the experience and take advantage of Apple 's 14 day return policy to get a different Mac if you do n't like your Mini once you 've tried it for a week or so . Here 's what you 'll likely see when you get your Mac . The SSD will be and the DHH will be and the combination of disk0s2 and disk1s2 will be the raw space that fuses into Macintosh HD to be a logical : In system profiler under storage , you 'll see something similar to this :
Either ... put the files in the Mac partition : Boot Camp has drivers for read/write to HFS + put the files in the Windows partition : install software on OS X such as <URL>
I think you should be fine . I upgraded to Lion on a Mac Pro that has a RAID 0 . While the OS is installed to an SSD , not RAID , Lion still detected the RAID just fine . That 's obviously a different scenario than what you have , but as the software RAID is handled at a higher level than the OS , I think you should be fine . Obviously , have a backup ready to go just in case , but my guess is that your upgrade should go smoothly .
<URL> will be your best bet . There 's several tutorials laying around on getting OS 9 running in SheepShaver .
You can not legally install OS X on VMware Workstation or Virtualbox and VMware has checks to prevent it . You have to hack it to get it to work and we do n't provide hacks here . You can read more about it <URL> .
end question
start question
Will Apple Music work with iPod Classic and iPod Nano ?
Offline tracks obtained through apple music do not sync across to ipod . Its a shame really , they could easily put a timer on the songs , so if the ipod is not plugged into registered device every so often , the songs will become locked .
I would try to fix it , sell it , or recycle it . In that order . Try looking into fixing the iPod if your up for the task , since like you said there should be nothing really wrong with it other than a super dead battery . Probably the only thing you would need to buy to fix it is a new battery and a few simple tools to aid in opening the case . I recommend looking at <URL> from iFixit . Once you fix it , you tremendously increase its value and make it a better candidate to sell to people who do n't like fixing things themselves . A 20GB iPod still holds its own in 2012 for playing music , and there are a lot of people who would find this device useful , and hence the parts as well even if you do n't fix it . Its worth much more than most small electronics things going to be recycled . After fixing it or not you could try to sell it on eBay , a yard sale , flea-market , Craigslist , etc. . Working today March 16 , 2012 its worth about $ 50 USD and for parts about $ 10 according to recent eBay completed listing prices . And again if you do n't fix it you can still try to sell it for parts . However if you do n't fix it that may not be a good idea if you have personal information still stored on the iPod , eg address book , photos , etc. . Because you will not get a chance to erase it . But if your not worried about losing any personal information from the iPod then by all means you can just sell it as is without having to break it open . And lastly if you just do n't want to deal with it anymore than just getting rid of it . Check into your local responsible recycling options , you may be able to simply drop it off at a nearby retail store or community waste disposal location that accepts electronics waste . Contact the people who take away your trash and see what their options and recommendations are . If your in the USA you may find the following <URL> from <URL> useful .
The best , or , most commonly used method for transcoding DVDs and DivX files to an iPod would be <URL> . Handbrake has presets for almost all current iDevices . I 'd start by reading the Handbrake <URL> and selecting iPod Touch from the destination presets ( image on Stage 2 from the guide ) and adjusting select a target bit rate of 700ish for a device with that small of a screen . If you 're interested in scripting out the process to save time Handbrake has a great CLI and <URL> that would streamline the process . Another popular solution would be <URL> .
As a developer , you can control exactly which hardware you want to support and which you will not support by picking the source code you use and properly tagging the files you upload to Apple . The iOS app store then can prevent the devices you have disallowed from downloading the app . So , there 's nothing to prevent a developer from targeting only iPhone 4 with their code or just targeting a specific iOS version . It 's up to you ( and each other developer ) to decide on a build-by-build basis , so the general answer would be : No , there is no guarantee that all apps ( or any one app ) that run ( s ) on iPhone 4 will also run on iPod Touch ( 4th generation ) .
Apple Music and iTunes Match are complementary : both will allow you to match ( and upload if unmatched ) your locally owned songs Apple Music allows you to stream those songs as well as a good deal ( but not the whole ) of the iTunes Store catalog without downloading them , or download the matched songs as 256kbps FairPlay-wrapped DRM-encrypted AAC as well as the unmatched ones in their original format . iTunes Match allows you to download ( and listen as it downloads , even if it is in a temporary cache , which makes it look like streaming ) matched songs as DRM-free 256kbps AAC ( still wrapped in an thin FairPlay container but inconsequential and unencrypted ) as well as the unmatched ones in their original format . So be very wary with Apple Music matched songs : be sure to back up your original files , or you 'll be left with only DRMized ones . You can see the type of match by adding some info columns in the song list view in iTunes .
The <URL> provides both a 30 pin connector for charging and/or syncing as well as a 3.5 mm audio output jack .
The E symbol means " Explicit " . You can enable or disable explicit content within Settings on your device . You 'll find the " ALLOW MUSIC &amp; PODCASTS RATED " option under General - > Restrictions - > Music &amp; Podcasts . You may need to enter a PIN code to access the Restrictions settings . You can disable the restrictions entirely by selecting the " Disable Restrictions " option at the top of the Restrictions window .
This separation of " sound effects " and " games/music " exists in iPod Touch 4 as well . There is no way for tuning a master volume on these devices . But you can set the " sound effects " volume as constant ( - - turn off ) and pressing volume buttons will only change the " games/music " volume .
The Radio option probably refers to an accessory that Apple used to sell , the <URL> . Your iPod does not have an FM radio built in ; only the 5th and 6th Gen Nanos have that . For more information about using the iPod Radio Remote , see this <URL> .
You can set that up , but not on the device . There 's no interface to more complex recursion rules in the iOS calendar app . If you 're synching with iCal on a mac , you add the event to iCal and go into the " custom " recurrence settings , and it 's easy to have it repeat every two days . Sync your device and bob 's your uncle .
Something conductive and either soft or flat will register with the capacitive touch screen sensors . A ball of conductive foam or wadded up aluminum foil , or even a half inch strip of the metallic insides of a power bar wrapper . There are several manufacturers of iPhone stylus 's that use variations of the above . You can google them . Non-conductive stuff wo n't work . And anything too pointy will also have problems being recognized , as there wo n't be sufficient electrical field coupling .
Yes - I had to do this for the same devices : 2G to 4G . I think I just synced the new iPod Touch ( there is no such thing as an iTouch ) with iTunes , and everything went over , but I might have had to restore a backup from the old to the new .
I can confirm what Nathan G. reported . I have a computer with Windows , and when I plug my iPod on that computer , it says me it is already synchronized with an iTune library ; it asks me if I want to synchronize it with the library present on Windows , warning me that the content of the iPod will be deleted , if I decide to do so . I did n't select Manually Manage Music in both the computers .
Yes . You need the discontinued " iPod " camera connector . ( not to be confused with the iOS iPad camera connector ) <URL> They are for sale on Amazon ( and of course at local thrift shops and electronics shops worldwide ) . <URL>
The application you point out is a Mac only application . That 's why it does n't work on Windows Vista . However , here 's two alternatives : <URL> which is a paid multiplatform app <URL> which is less polished and windows only , but free . You may as well be interested by <URL> which allow to browse any connected iOS device without jailbreaking them . It does the job and works on Mac OS &amp; Windows . It 's a shareware , but the demo is fully usable .
It should . Bootcamp functions as a normal Windows operating system , just make sure the program you use to create the bootable flash drive actually works .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
The problem with the high resolution is that the monitor uses a dual-link DVI-cable as it is needed to provide such a high resolution . The Dual-link cable is not a normal DVI-cable and therefore will not work as expected with a normal adapter . The adapter you have linked should suffice thou . But beware that the ad says no adapters and no Macbook , this could be a warning towards people trying to hook up a " HDMI to single-link DVI " / similar or to owners of an old Macbook . We ca n't know that from the information given from the ad and you should consider contacting the seller . It can work ( you can even say it should work ) , but looking at this thread : <URL> it 's not guaranteed that it 'll work .
No , previous versions of the AppleTV do not support the new Apple Music service . In order to use the service with AppleTV , you 'll need to either 1 ) stream from a compatible device , such as an iPhone / iPad / Mac , or 2 ) upgrade to the latest 4th generation AppleTV .
Maybe you have authorized Macs you no longer have . Go to your account in iTunes , under Apple ID Overview you can see how many computers you have authorized and ( once a year ) you can deauthorize all , after that you should be able to reauthorize your Macs . ( This does not affect iOS devices , as they do not count towards your 5 devices limit )
end question
start question
How to stop downloads from being organized by date ?
So , the answer should be the Glims . Either uninstall the Glims , or config the GLims not to organize the downloading into dated folder .
This will not be possible . You will see an cloud icon when you previously " purchased " an app . This will notify you that you could download the app withous any costs . It is not possible to delete those apps from your apple is . If you do n't want to see the cloud icon , you could sign out from the appstore via settings > iTunes &amp; App Store > sign out . This will hide the cloud icon but you have to log in each time you want to download an app .
To give you an answer the best I can with the research I 've done . This is a relatively new addition in the OS . If I am not mistaken since 10.8 and what happened is Apple changed the Helper daemon . I do not know of a way to configure the helperd parameters . My recommendation is to give Apple feedback via <URL> and ask that they give the ability to toggle it or remove it all together . Additionally ask the mad scientists here to include the functionality <URL>
I finally solved the issue by opening the web sites that misbehaved , one at a time , in Safari . From there you proceed to trust each and every certificate . They are then re-added to your keychain . More can be found <URL> . I 'd like to thank @bmike for doing his best to assist . Restoring from backup would probably work ( if I had one - silly me ) .
Things you can try ( that I have n't tried myself ) , other than <URL> : If you have a 4 digit lockcode on the iPhone , the encryption on iTunes might <URL> . Try the same pin . Also try older pins , if you change it . It could be an old one . Get <URL> , delete <URL> ( may need to jailbreak the phone to be able to see it ) on it and restart . Be aware this will clear all your passwords . Now delete your iTunes encrypted backups and re-sync . <URL> - this is an easy way to remove the lock code , not sure about the encrypt iphone check tho . Probably . Use some <URL> , <URL> to begin with a lot more of hacking . I wo n't get into much detail here because this is n't a simple procedure . You 're on your own . Just wanted to cite it 's possible and that maybe even today the " encryption " is quite fake . Restore from an old unencrypted backup . Yes , this is the closest step to " wipe " . As you already suggested , wipe your phone ( just for the sake of completeness ) . Good luck !
You could use a software like <URL> to easily achieve your need : Caffeine is a tiny program that puts an icon in the right side of your menu bar . Click it to prevent your Mac from automatically going to sleep , dimming the screen or starting screen savers . Click it again to go back . Right-click ( or ⌘ - click ) the icon to show the menu .
Nope . When you close the lid , your Mac goes to sleep and stops all current downloads . If you have a downloadmanager , it will pause the downloads , but it will not keep downloading the files . If you would like to work with your lid closed , I suggest you connect an external screen or try software like <URL> , which will keep your Mac awake when the lid is closed . Also , it might be worth trying extention <URL> .
The easiest ( and free ) way would be to upgrade your system to OSX 10.9 ( Mavericks ) ; they actually built this into the newest version of Safari which is included . If you do n't want to venture down that route , there are a few Safari extensions you can use to accomplish your goal . ClickToPlugin and/or ClickToFlash <URL> YouTube5 extension - blocks them by not supporting them <URL> 3 : AdBlock Plus - follow the development builds page ( the 2nd link ) to see when they release their version for Safari - I know it 's delayed right now but still in development , You 'll need to google this as I do n't have enough rep to post more than 2 links , sorry . Personally I run Mavericks , but also use ClickToPlugin ; it works for any ads that the newest version of Safari does n't catch .
It turns out the issue for me is that OSX has created 2 entries in the Calendar app for my Gmail account ( even though I only have the account entered once under the Internet Accounts system pref ) . The Calendar app wo n't let me delete the duplicate since it thinks the duplicate is managed under the Internet Accounts pref . Deleting and re-adding the gmail account in Internet Accounts did n't help either . After deleting the Internet Account , the duplicate still sticks around in the Calendar app is not deletable since the Calendar app ca n't delete it , and there is no corresponding Internet Account for that calendar . I got around the issue by un-checking the " Enable this account " checkbox for the duplicate in the Calendar app ( since it wo n't let me delete it ) . That at least makes it stop checking for calendar updates so I do n't get pestered for passwords .
In System Prefereces > Network set Ethernet above Wifi . That should do the trick .
The only way to do that is to go into " Sounds " in Settings and pick " None " as the sound for Mail . This is bad because without Sound there will be no indication of new email when the phone is locked . Hope that in a future iOS release , this option will be added .
You could state that your game is under development for iOS , and if you are waiting for approval you can state it is submitted to the App Store or that it is Waiting approval for the App Store . In Apples documentation it is known as ' <URL> '
You can stop Mac OS X unmounting user disks on log-out . This behaviour is controlled with a default ( preference ) . In <URL> , <URL> shares the appropriate command to issue : This command needs to be entered into Applications > Utilities > Terminal.app . Aftwards you must restart your Mac for the change to take effect . Note that the tool has been replaced by ; it is possible Mac OS X 10.8 has migrated this default to another file . You may also find this Super User question useful , <URL> .
On your iPad device tap on Settings > Store . Under where it says Automatic Downloads , make sure that Apps is set to Off . This setting keeps apps from automatically downloading new purchases made on other devices .
For the general case , the easiest thing to do is not let your computer sleep . Go to Energy Saver in System Preferences and move the " Computer sleep " slider to " Never " . If that 's too extreme , you could move the slider to 3 hours which will keep your computer doing whatever it 's doing for at least 3 hours after you leave it . Either way , you can still let the display sleep to save power and the computer will look like it 's sleeping . Specific to AppleTV streaming , there appears to be a bug in iTunes 11 . Here 's an Open Radar bug report : <URL> . Update 2012-12-13 : iTunes 11.0.1 just came out and the missing power assertion has returned . This should fix the AppleTV streaming problem .
Whether your internet connection is slow may have several reasons : poor , instable connection geographic location total traffic on the network you 've reached your cap ( see contract ) For the normal users it 's difficult to determine what the exact reason is . Especially in dense areas , the promised speed is not reached sometimes because the total traffic of all users is very high . Where I live , the same network is used by different providers , adding additional complications . In order to judge if your network connection slower than usual , you should test and record your network speed for several times throughout a month . You can use <URL> to get stats about Download , Upload and Ping . You can use this data to check the speed you 've been promised by your provider . Check your contract to see what speed you have been promised . Most contracts throttle the speed after you have reached a cap .
Yes . That is possible in iOS 10 or later version ( I think ) . However to do that simply you have to turn off a specific option provided in Notes settings . Method Goto Settings - > Notes Then turn off Save Media to Photos . That will solve your problem .
Your instincts are correct . If a file is being modified when the program reads it , you will end up with a copy of it in a transient state ( or perhaps some programs like iPhoto that have a database that tracks files - the structure might not be correct to run with after a restore . ) This is why Time Machine makes two passes - it copies everything and then runs a second copy to pick up any files that were in the process of being modified during the first pass . Of course , a file under constant change might not get saved in either case , but it reduces the odds of a critically vital file that does n't get changed often will be caught in a delicate moment . To be safe , you want to boot to another OS ( the recovery HD or an external drive ) to run imaging if you need to ensure a perfect copy and all files being closed and flushed properly to storage .
Here is how I solved this : launch go to - > tab - > item check box ( which was unchecked for me ) choose in the resulting dialogue box I can only guess that checking and canceling the resulting dialogue shook some sense into some forgotten settings .
You can set the default boot disk in System Preferences > Startup Disk .
end question
start question
Why does Xcode 4.1 Installer ask me to quit iTunes if iTunes is n't running ?
This is a widely-reported bug in some App Store installers . It sees the process and displays this error , even though that process is not controlled by the user . You can open Activity Monitor ( in / Applications/Utilities ) , find the process and kill it with the Quit Process button in the top-left corner . You can also instead open Terminal ( also in / Applications/Utilities ) , enter the following line and press enter to kill it .
What I usually do in this situation is look up the album in the iTunes Store . If it 's not available in the iTunes Store , I get the album art from some other source . If it is available in the iTunes Store but " Get Album Art " does n't seem to do anything , there 's probably a mismatch in the meta data somewhere . Compare the Artist , Album Artist , and Album fields and make sure the fields in your local copy match those from the iTunes Store . Then try again . This should take care of it in most cases . If that still does n't work , <URL> .
Short answer : no . Longer answer : maybe , but probably not yet . Most of the iCloud pieces integrated into iTunes are for iTunes/App Store content . You can re-download all your purchased music and TV ( not sure about movies yet ? ) , but it does n't sync playlists , and outside of the US ( guessing you 're in Canada given the Telus mention ) you 're out of luck at the moment due to separate content deals . Eventually with iTunes Match , you 'll be able to get non-iTunes music from iCloud for a fee ( $ 25/year ) , but it 's not coming until November in the US , and later for the rest of us . It 's not clear how iTunes Match will deal with playlists , but if it 's like the current system for transferring purchased music , it probably wo n't sync playlists , just give you all the music in one heap . Your best bet is to just copy your iTunes directory ( ~ / Music/iTunes on the Mac ) , including the iTunes Library.itl and . xml files to the default iTunes folder on your new PC . If you do n't already have all your media files in the iTunes directory , you 'll probably want to do that if you have the space , to make things simpler when transferring . iTunes will do the rearranging for you , just go to File & #x 2192 ; Library & #x 2192 ; Organize Library and check Consolidate files .
You can use separate iTunes accounts , but the HomeSharing account must be the same . You will need to authorize each other 's computers/devices with both iTunes accounts in order to play back content purchased under the other account .
Firstly , you must bear in mind that each In-App Purchase is uniquely associated with an Apple ID and that there are different In-App Purchase types : Consumable - You need to purchase these items every time you want them , and you ca n't download them again for free . Non-Consumable - You purchase these items one time , and you can transfer them to multiple devices authorized with the same iTunes Store account . Non-renewing Subscriptions - You can purchase these items again after the subscription period ends . Auto-Renewable Subscriptions - You can purchase these items with different renewal periods . There are , therefore , differences in the way the availability of the product is handled . As stated on Apple 's <URL> : You ca n't sync or transfer non-renewing subscriptions and consumable In-App Purchase to another iOS device or Mac . You can transfer non-consumable In-App Purchases and auto-renewable subscriptions to another iOS device or Mac authorized with your iTunes Store account . For example , if you transfer a game from an iPhone to an iPod touch , only the game levels will sync , and the extra ammo and experience points wo n't transfer .
Try turning your iPhone 's brightness slider to the middle or slightly lower , but leave auto-brightness on . The phone will usually auto-adjust its brightness after it gets locked ( display turned off ) and then turned on , maybe a minute or so later , in different lighting conditions .
According the <URL> for iTunes Radio : There may be some DJ-curated stations that you may not be able to modify . You ca n't like or play more tracks like this while listening to some DJ-curated stations . You can however , start new stations based on the current track or artist of a featured station or add tracks to your iTunes Wishlist from the Star ( ✭ ) menu .
You could use iTunes DJ . Select the playlist that you want from the list in the left-hand corner . Then , you can right click on a song , and select " Play next in iTunes DJ "
The Acrobat Reader installer not only installs the application itself into but contains a bunch of other packages which need to get installed into other places ( e.g. browser plugins ) . These things ca n't get installed by just using a simple application bundle ( at least not as easily ) . <URL>
Okay , I 'm going to chime in . Firstly , let 's look at your first question : Why does OS X warn a user before they launch it for the very first time ? OS X had instituted the added precaution for one important reason : so that apps would n't seemingly launch on their own . Obviously it would be crippling to workflow if the confirmation popped up every time the app was launched , so a first-time only policy was instituted . And that seems to be sufficient if you give it some thought , as that means any app that runs without the confirmation has already been approved once before , thus making it a " trusted " application . The implications here are n't measurable beyond this simple strategy . Apple wanted some assurance that programs would n't just be run without a level of consent . If they somehow happened to find their way on a user 's machine , they would n't be thought of as something " old " or something " trusted . " It 's not meant as a total safe-guard against malware , but rather almost as an important training tool . It gets the user to understand that OS X monitors these things . And that if an app is run , the system will be there to provide a little protection . If a user stumbles on a strange file somewhere , and double clicks on it , the system will check to see if it meets certain criteria . If it does , it 'll notify the user that it 's never been launched and is to be deemed " potentially " dangerous . It is then to the user to decide if they should run . It is a safeguard that does more to for user behavior than actual , hardcore system protection . So it 's not that there is a definitive threat . It is more a user-land security measure and perhaps even to be better thought of as a " pre-emptive " strike . To label it a clear cut case of either implement a security measure for a specific threat or axe it does n't apply in this case ( for the reason 's above ) . Think of it more along the vein of Apple being pro-active ( and quite clever ) . And it 's not that obtrusive is it ? Windows gives warnings each and every time . OS X delivers one just on the first run . It 's a sane compromise . Now , to get to the second tail of your query ( and excuse me if I 'm paraphrasing here , but I think this is what you 're driving at ) : Why does n't OS X have an anti-virus program to deal with these threats instead ? First , I think it 's important to square away the terminology . There are no known viruses that have propagated into the wild for OS X. OS X is based on a Unix structure , which poses a seriously problem for virus-makers . In a nutshell ( and excuse the oversimplification ) Windows marks everything with executable rights . From images , to text files , to even music . This is ultimately what allows virus-makers to , for a lack of a better term , go to town . Unix does n't exhibit this trait . It 's crafty with its privileges . So the likelihood that OS X ( and all Unix-based systems for that matter ) will ever need an anti-virus <URL> . Windows and Unix are fundamentally very different . Essentially , if you wanted to get a virus on OS X , you 'd require either root access or significant user activity . You could not deliver and run it from simply opening up an <URL> . Now that does not speak towards security , per se . OS X is not any more secure than Windows and this is a common misperception . This of course depends on your definition of security . It is largely immune to viruses ( I use the term " immune " loosely here ) but it is still susceptible to buffer-overlows that can allow root access . <URL> has razed OS X in seconds numerous times at the <URL> competition . He 's a masterful security researcher , but putting that aside , he shows that OS X ( along with pretty much everything else ) is not an iron horse . It can be exploited just like every other system . But the chances of being targeted by <URL> are rather slim . You 'll likely face a gauntlet of script-kiddies that pack ready-made tools that serve more to aggravate than deliver a focused attack . To this day , only one has managed to make the rounds -- enough to force Apple to step up it 's security measures : <URL> . And even with Mac Defender 's seaming success , it still required the user to navigate through a series of prompts via its native OS X installer ( note that later versions did n't require an administrative password ) . So you have to take the " success " of Mac Defender with a grain of salt . It was likely successful because it was the first of its kind , and exploited more the user 's blind faith in OS X than the system itself . People readily installed it thinking they were safe from harm because they are n't running Windows . So in closing , OS X does not require an anti-virus because quite simply , there are no known viruses making their way out in the wild . Proof-of-concepts do exist , but again , the likelihood that they will one day wreak havoc is very remote simply because propogation is incredibly difficult to sustain . Malware , on the other hand , has shown itself to be a cause for concern . OS X now contains a built in safety feature
Hold down option whilst dragging into the ITunes window to add to the library , without it also being copied into ITunes fodler
You need to make sure your iPhone is configured to sync music from iTunes : Connect your iPhone to your computer Start iTunes Select you iPhone in Devices list Select Music tab Check the box Sync Music and select what you want to sync to your iPhone ( all music / specific playlists ) Also make sure to " Sync only checked songs and videos " option is not checked on your iPhone Summary tab . On your next sync ( automatic or manual , depending on your settings ) music should begin to sync to your iPhone .
I 'll check my computer when I get home , but everytime I update the ratings on my iPhone there is definitely network activity ( The network spinner is displayed everytime I change the rating ) . So it is definitely updating the iTunes Match library . Whether it updates the PC at home I 'll have to see . I 'm still waiting for it to upload about 600 songs . Edit : I confirmed that ratings and play count definitely are updated right away . PC to device changes take a little longer . I had one song disappear from my phone on my way to work because I accidentally removed it from match the night before and it took some time to propagate .
can get confused if your short name is different between the two machines . You can check what your short name is on each machine with . To go to a particular account , use . If you still have trouble , use . You may see things like checking . If you want to avoid typing all of the time , you can make ( or add to ) the file with the lines editing each line for your particular case ( the is your nickname , the is the IP address , or mymac.local or whatever you currently use for ) . Then you can just use . If you still have trouble , post some output from but be careful to not post anything private ( like IP addresses ) .
iTunes does support the original iPhone , there is no where it is written in the requirements of iTunes 10.5 that says that iTunes requires this version of iOS or this particular iPhone or even iPod in order to sync with it . All Apple music devices should be supported unless other wise noted . The only point where it may matter is if you have updated to the latest version of iOS from a newer version of iTunes ( e.g. greater than 10.5.0.142 ) and then are attempting to use that updated iOS on an older version of iTunes 10.5.0.142 in this case . In that situation there may be issues communicating between the two due to apple changing protocols or who knows what else between versions of iTunes and iOS . I suggesting updating to the latest version of iTunes , and then contact Apple or their discussion forms if the problem persists .
No . Home Sharing uses mDNS ( Bonjour ) to advertise . Without a running iTunes instance for the share , it wo n't be available . Your NAS may have a DNLA server built-in which could make the iTunes library on it available though .
This process assumes that iCloud is not enabled . It is possible to update apps on the device without doing so in iTunes . For this to work you will need to have enabled automatic downloads . If you sync your iPad with iTunes without transfering purchases you coukld end up with older apps and losing the updates . With iCloud there is no need for you to sync with iTunes , so if a device is plugged in iTunes would assume that you do not use iCloud and will transfer all the updated apps to the computer . All in all it is more of a safety precaution if you are already using iCloud .
This is a super old question , but I can admit to giving up looking for a source for a rather long time . It turns out ( in my case ) that the magic " 4th conductor " within the headphone port that is used for the microphone also is used for the remote control . ie : Vol up/down , Play/Pause , Next/Prev , etc. . This works by shorting that 4th conductor in <URL> . When the cord for my headphones , with only 3 conductors , wiggled in it 's loose fit , my laptop thought that I had pressed the play button , which triggered iTunes to open up . ( I have also seen a similar thing happen with bluetooth headphones , as mentioned above . )
As you said , Apple knows what you have purchased and they are all linked to your account . However , transferring your purchases means that the purchased files ( apps , music , movies ... ) will copy from your device ( iPhone 5s ) to your computer then you do n't need to re-download them from the internet .
iTunes preferences are stored in I presume you access your two libraries by launching iTunes while holding down the Opt key . An alternate method to launch iTunes and swap out pref files at the same time would be to make an Automator or AppleScript app that switches pref files , and makes a link from to one of the libraries , then launches iTunes for you .
end question
start question
What exactly does kernel_task do ?
It accumulates all the CPU time for input/output ( i/o ) processing delays and calculations as well as scheduling of processes and threads . If you watch it after a reboot you will see it starts with minimal RAM and CPU needs and instead grows only when other programs run and need the system services . To slim it down , shut off unneeded ports ( WiFi , bluetooth , etc. . . ) as well as idle / unused programs . If things do n't settle down , consider rebooting to ensure no task is stuck or leaking memory . If you have programs doing real work , they will cause the kernel to use both memory and processor time - just watch as you start things to see which other programs are causing this behavior . It 's rarely an issue with the kernel - even with badly performing programs - that ca n't be solved by logging out and back in again . The kernel_task cleans up well and generally takes care to only use the resources needed by the workload .
That message means that there is a <URL> . This may happen if you connect new hardware to your computer . For possible reasons/fixes , see <URL> from the Apple website . Here is a section from the " Troubleshooting " section ... Was the computer starting up , shutting down , or performing a particular task when the recurring kernel panic happened ? Is the kernel panic intermittent , or does it happen every time you do a certain thing ? Does it occur only when a certain external device is connected , or a device is connected to a certain port ? Reading through that article should give you a general idea what is happening and possible ways to fix it .
It accumulates all the CPU time for input/output ( i/o ) processing delays and calculations as well as scheduling of processes and threads . If you watch it after a reboot you will see it starts with minimal RAM and CPU needs and instead grows only when other programs run and need the system services . To slim it down , shut off unneeded ports ( WiFi , bluetooth , etc. . . ) as well as idle / unused programs . If things do n't settle down , consider rebooting to ensure no task is stuck or leaking memory . If you have programs doing real work , they will cause the kernel to use both memory and processor time - just watch as you start things to see which other programs are causing this behavior . It 's rarely an issue with the kernel - even with badly performing programs - that ca n't be solved by logging out and back in again . The kernel_task cleans up well and generally takes care to only use the resources needed by the workload .
I have two other suggesting that also helped me fix issues that I was having . Both of them are pretty easy too ( no need to mess with any system files or change plist or anything else like that ) . 1 ) Go to the Disk Utility app on your computer and press the buttons in following picture in the order that they are numbered . This will make OSX scan your hard disk and attempt to fix any potential file permission problems you may have . If this does n't fix the memory issue , it should a least make your computer run a little smoother . I find that doing this one in a while really helps performance on my computer ( which is fairly new by the way , so this helps even on relatively resent systems ) . ( PS . 1 ( b ) is optional , most likely it will be grayed out anyway unless you run the Disk Utility app from Network Recovery Mode or while running off a separate hard drive . ) 2 ) If you have antivirus installed on your Mac and you turned on the Scan Archives option , turn it off . The reason this feature is not on by default is that it affects the computer 's performance a lot any time you run a local java program . It sounds like a really cool thing to have on , but it comes with a serious performance draw . I 'm not sure if this will help free up your RAM , but if nothing else helps , this is a quick and easy way to speed up your computer . :)
Simply put : No , it does not . I suppose this prevents an alarm not going off when you really need it to ( i.e. waking you up ) .
To jailbreak with Absinthe they tell you to erase all data just because the software works faster , but you can do it with all your info . It will only take more time . I recommend you to use the last version of Absinthe . To remove jailbreak you have to restore your idevice . ( it will restore with the last iOS version at the moment ) .
While I am sure its not a complete list ( the only people who would have that would be Apple ) , here is a list I found on many of the phrases Siri understands : Adding Events Set up a meeting at 9 Set up a meeting with Michael at 9 Meet with Lisa at noon Set up a meeting about hiring tomorrow at 9am New appointment with Susan Park Friday at 3 Schedule a planning meeting at 8:30 today in the boardroom Changing events Move my 3pm meeting to 4:30 Reschedule my appointment with Dr. Manning to next Monday at 9am Add Lisa to my meeting with Jason Cancel the budget review meeting Asking about events What does the rest of my day look like ? What 's on my calendar for Friday ? When is my next appointment ? When am I meeting with Michael ? Where is my next meeting ? More available at <URL> I personally have found that many of these features are available through the UI , but so complex or have a confusing workflow that most people would n't deal with it ( for example , think of how many taps it would take to set a meeting at a time somewhere and invite someone ? ) . For example , in the linked question about every three days , I wonder if it set a repeat that way ( which is not available in the UI ) , or created new independent events . After seeing your updated question , related directly to recurring monthly events on a certain day-of-week , I could not reliably get this to work . Using a phrase like ' schedule _ for the first Thursday of every month ' did prompt for a time , but then tried to create the even for every day . This may work on a month to month basis , as in ' schedule __ for the second Tuesday of April ' . I did another test just now , and it actually created a repeating event , but nothing more than a repeating one on the 30th of every month ( it said it was creating a new event starting today ) . This was using the same phrase , and gave obviously different results . I am not sure if this was due to a limit of Siri , or the fact that the recurrence options of Calendar on iOS is limited . This feature is easy to do on iCloud.com or in iCal itself .
Note that that article was based on the incorrect rumour of a 1704x960 display . The original iPhone display before the 4 had a pixel density of 163 ppi , the old retina displays doubled both horizontal and vertical resolutions to have a pixel density of 326 ppi . To keep the interfaces of apps without retina support the same size , each old size pixel is represented as 4 retina size pixels , in a 2x2 square . The iPhone 5 maintained the same pixel density , but got larger in one dimension , and what the article is talking about was the hypothesis that the iPhone 6 would have the same aspect ratio as the 5 , but increasing the resolution in each direction by 1/2 in a 1704x960 display . Assuming the display was the same physical size as the iPhone 5 , that would give a pixel density 3 times that of the original iPhones , thus " 3x " . So assuming one had ancient assets from a 1x display , a 3x display would need to use a 3x3 grid of its pixels per single asset pixel to keep the same size . The article is just showing that unlike the jump from the original assets to retina assets , the quality of interpolating assets from 2x to 3x is n't anywhere near as bad as from 1x to 2x as the resolution change is smaller . As it turns out , the actual specs of the 6 and 6 Plus are completely different . The 6 has the same pixel density as the 5 but the screen is a bit bigger . The 6 Plus is both larger and somewhat higher density , though not what " 3x " would imply . I 'm not sure how the new phones would handle old assets . Neither of them are related by a simple ratio like the move from the old iPhone to retina . The aspect ratios are almost the same though , so I 'm guessing old apps will default to filling the screen with some kind of interpolation . update : I just found a relevant post here : <URL> it seems that the way this is going to be handled on the 6 Plus is to use 3x assets which are then downscaled for the screen .
The other answer seems to be correct about the file system being HFSX , but on being case-insensitive ( other answer since edited to correct ) , I found that not to be the case in the book <URL> . On page 23 it says : In iOS , being the case sensitive HFSX by default , case is not only preserved , but allows for multiple files to have the same name , albeit with a different case . Naturally , case sensitivity means typos produce a totally different command or file reference , often a wrong one . [ emphasis above is mine ] Since that did n't agree with the other answer , I sought confirmation . I loaded a sample iOS project I was working on and changed the name of the database to only differ by case . After running the app on my iPad mini ( iOS 6.1 ) to re-create the database , I went into iTunes and looked at the files under File Sharing for the application . Here 's what I saw : So , it would appear Mac OS X and iOS Internals is correct : case is preserved and allows for multiple files to have the same name . Interestingly , when I selected both files in iTunes ' File Sharing and clicked " Save to ... " my desktop , I did not get any warning . iTunes apparently " saved " both files to my desktop , but only the initial-uppercase version survived ( presumably overwriting the initial-lowercase version of the file . )
Apple implements tethering , so if your app proxies TCP/IP traffic directly , you will probably run afoul of several aspects of the review process . Clearly , if your app is doing things to add value to the network you 'll likely have more legs to stand on that your app is n't just the same implementation as carrier tethering : linking IOT type devices speak protocols other than just TCP/IP allow filtering , reporting , proxy , QOS controls Like all app submissions , your milage may vary . You can do the work and take your chances or you can line up a big customer and sell the app B2B style if you are worried about Apple deciding to pass on your app .
I would try to fix it , sell it , or recycle it . In that order . Try looking into fixing the iPod if your up for the task , since like you said there should be nothing really wrong with it other than a super dead battery . Probably the only thing you would need to buy to fix it is a new battery and a few simple tools to aid in opening the case . I recommend looking at <URL> from iFixit . Once you fix it , you tremendously increase its value and make it a better candidate to sell to people who do n't like fixing things themselves . A 20GB iPod still holds its own in 2012 for playing music , and there are a lot of people who would find this device useful , and hence the parts as well even if you do n't fix it . Its worth much more than most small electronics things going to be recycled . After fixing it or not you could try to sell it on eBay , a yard sale , flea-market , Craigslist , etc. . Working today March 16 , 2012 its worth about $ 50 USD and for parts about $ 10 according to recent eBay completed listing prices . And again if you do n't fix it you can still try to sell it for parts . However if you do n't fix it that may not be a good idea if you have personal information still stored on the iPod , eg address book , photos , etc. . Because you will not get a chance to erase it . But if your not worried about losing any personal information from the iPod then by all means you can just sell it as is without having to break it open . And lastly if you just do n't want to deal with it anymore than just getting rid of it . Check into your local responsible recycling options , you may be able to simply drop it off at a nearby retail store or community waste disposal location that accepts electronics waste . Contact the people who take away your trash and see what their options and recommendations are . If your in the USA you may find the following <URL> from <URL> useful .
It enables what basically is just normalization . It scans the library for track volume information , and updates the normalization metadata if necessary . It also honors it , of course .
History . In the original Macintosh 's System Software in 1984 , Apple decided that releasing the mouse button over a menu separator should dismiss the menu . This was probably because they viewed holding down the mouse button as a form of concentration ; letting go of the button meant it should go away . Where the mouse was did n't matter . You could even be outside the menus entirely , but not pointing at anything particular on the screen . Later , when Apple made menus click instead of hold , the behaviour was copied over . That was years ago , the the behaviour is still the same . ( It actually probably predates 1984 ; the Lisa probably did the same . ) I think this was absolutely the right behaviour for click-and-hold menus , but click-and-hold requires more coordination than click .
The new TVSJ Framework or the TVML wo n't work on my 3rd Gen Apple TV ? Apple said the 3rd gen Apple TV will not run tvOS when means you ca n't develop any app on that device . If you do want to develop , you can buy a 4th gen. Do I have to develop everything via iOS swift/Objective-C ? Nope , Apple TV runs tvOS which have its own SDK . But the frameworks are very similar . tvOS also got some of its own SDK which iOS do n't have . You do need to develop in Swift or Objective-C . Can I test/install my app without a paid developer membership ? Yes , Xcode 7 allows you to test app on device without paid account . Though to install app on Apple TV , you will need an USB-C cable .
Nvidia offers a CUDA driver and OpenGL driver , for use with their API 's . The application would need to be recompiled with these options for the . app to use the cuda driver . Here is the latest info , from a last month ... <URL> Scroll down to mac OSX section for some good non-programmer - adv programmer info .
Since OS X has no package manager , anything you install would have been manual , through MacPorts or through Installer . If you want a list of the binaries your terminal has access to , you can run the following commands to check the most common spots , and output the result as a text file : Alternatively , if you just want to get the packages installed by MacPorts , run the following ( this is probably the one you want ) : And for <URL> : And finally , for all packages installed by Installer To restore , for example , your MacPorts ports from the list generated above , use the following :
You can buy very cheap screen replacements on ebay ( about AU$ 30 ) . I have fitted one of these myself , it is not too hard .
When Steve Jobs first introduced the iMac in 1998 , he proclaimed that the i stood for Internet . Jobs went on to say , " i also means some other things to us " and displayed a presentation slide with the keywords : internet individual instruct inform inspire You can even view <URL> . The " i " was first used on the iBook and iMac . These were produced as Steve Jobs wanted a pro and consumer model of a desktop and portable computer . This later rolled out with more products , iSight , iPod , iPhone , iPad . Yes the products are trademarked , but using an " i " itself before a product is not trademarked and it can not be . Here is <URL>
" Allow Full Access " has nothing to do with using the actual keyboard . The keyboard is accessible for you to use throughout the system regardless of this setting . In short , allowing full access grants the developer of the keyboard additional access to some of your information and gives the developer access to the internet . From the <URL> under " Designing for User Trust " , Allow Full Access does this : Keyboard can access Location Services and Address Book , with user permission Keyboard can send keystrokes and other input events for server-side processing Containing app can provide editing interface for keyboard 's custom autocorrect lexicon Keyboard can employ iCloud to ensure settings and autocorrect lexicon are up to date on all devices Keyboard can participate in Game Center and In-App Purchase The second bullet point is what Apple really wants you to understand . With Allow Full Access a developer COULD send your keystrokes to their server for processing , which might include : analyzing your sentence for grammar analyzing a word for spelling predicting the word you are typing . Apple is highlighting the fact that a developer COULD use your keystrokes for nefarious reasons instead of the legitimate reasons I listed above . It is possible for a developer to record your sensitive information such as credit card number or street address . In my opinion , it is not possible for a developer to write a fully-fledged keyboard extension without requesting full access . Without Full Access I ca n't utilize In-App Purchases , I ca n't sync your preferences using iCloud , I can not even provide a basic auto-correct feature . I just finished developing a keyboard extension for iOS . My keyboard never sends your keystrokes across the internet . I will never see what you have typed . There are no privacy concerns in my opinion , yet you still receive a scary message from Apple when you turn on Allow Full Access . If you have concerns about turning Allow Full Access ON , ask the developer how they are using your data/keystrokes . One additional note , you can not use a custom keyboard to type into a password field . iOS will always use the system keyboard for password fields . Developers that do process your keystrokes will not have access to your passwords , unless you type your passwords into a non-password field .
Your computer iTunes is waiting for the iPhone to " fix itself " and clean up from the interrupted sync . The mobile iTunes database ( and I 'm sure several others ) will need to be rebuilt to clean up after an interrupted sync . You can see/test this by disconnecting your iOS device in the middle of podcast or music syncing . If you then immediately start up iTunes for iOS - you will get an Updating LIbrary screen while it itdbprepserver does its work . You 'll get a " verifying message " until these post-sync and interrupted-sync cleanup activities finish . Once iTunes on the desktop has " verified " the phone is ready to start another sync , it commences with the normal backup and sync activities . My timing shows the interrupted recovery to take twice the time of a normal sync completion but usually less than a minute either way .
end question
start question
Is it possible to select Terminal output by using keyboard keys ?
The terminal multiplexing program tmux has configurable keyboard commands for selecting text for the purpose of copying and pasting . tmux is a very powerful addition to any terminal . It has a high learning curve , but if all you want to do is copy and paste you can learn how in a matter of moments and it will stay completely out of your way until you are ready to take the next step . tmux can be installed directly , or using a package manager such as Macports or Homebrew .
Chances are you installed the certificate that was required by your employers network . For example at my work place we have 802.1 x authentication on our Wifi , basically users log in with their normal username and passwords instead of a pre-shared Wifi key . When they log in they must accept a certificate from our servers . This does n't necessarily mean that your employer can see your encrypted traffic , however it is very possible . It depends what kind of infrastructure your employer has , i.e. do they have a system that does SSL inspection ? You wo n't know unless someone in IT tells you . You can view the installed certificates through Keychain Access ( Finder -- > Utilities -- > Keychain Access ) . For my 802.1 x Wifi there is a certificate in the ' Certificates ' section at the very bottom of the left column ( not the My Certificates ) . Never-the-less you will be able to see all installed Certificated here .
There 's no need of backing up the Public Key as it is in the actual Certificate , which can be easily downloaded from the <URL> . When you manually generate a Certificate , you firstly need to generate a Certificate Signing Request through the Keychain Access application . When this is done , both Public and Private keys are generated . The private one is automatically saved into your Mac , whilst the public key is included in the CSR file sent to the Provisioning Authority . One of the items contained in the generated certificate sent back from the Provisioning Authority will be this public key .
Unlike previous attempts at OS X resolution independence , HiDPI mode has a fixed 2x scaling factor . There 's no way to change that scale factor , nor would I expect things to work well even if you could . In fact , prior to 10.7.3 or .4 , HiDPI still had some bugs here and there . There 's a <URL> in John Siracusa 's Lion review at Ars Technica if you want a bit more detail .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
The only thing you can do is to copy a cell without borders over the one that has . If you type the info in first at least you do n't have to remember it .
Yes . You can make it so you do n't see the dock by adding a very long delay to the animation so that in practice , you never leave the mouse on the " expose the dock " target long enough to see it . This is technically a " workaround " since the dock is still there , just slower to appear than we care about on our timescale . Two steps are needed to set this up . One , activate auto-hide in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Dock & #x 2192 ; Autohide or type & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + D Two , open the Terminal an type : You 're set up now . In this example , it takes 100 seconds for the dock to appear . Make the timer even longer if you like , this long delay eventually helps you to forget that the dock is even there . Reset to default behavior by typing :
Yes you can . Simply select the text , right-click , select , and add the URL .
You can change the functions of the modifier keys ( Caps Lock , Control , Option , Command ) in System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Modifier Keys . If you have more than one keyboard , the setting window allows you to select and set separate mapping for each one : <URL>
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
In general , it 's not possible to downgrade the modem firmware / baseband software version on iOS , <URL> or use software designed to install modified software on an iPhone . It 's a popular request , so I imagine many people are working on it but nothing is out today to perform the task you ask on the iPhone 4 .
<URL> On the menu bar , click Bookmarks and select Show All Bookmarks to open the Library window . From the toolbar on the Library window , click Import and Backup and choose Export Bookmarks to HTML ... In the Export Bookmarks File window that opens , choose a location to save the file , which is named bookmarks.html by default . The desktop is usually a good spot , but any place that is easy to remember will work . Click the Save button . The Export Bookmarks File window will close . Close the Library window . Import the bookmarks.html file into Safari on the Mac by navigating to the File menu within Safari , choosing Import Bookmarks ... , then selecting the file you saved.You may want to delete or archive the existing Safari bookmarks first . You can now sync Safari on the Mac with Safari on your iOS devices . iCloud syncing will make this two-way and happen over the network , but you can also sync using USB and connecting to iTunes if the bookmarks will change rarely .
Are you just using the dictation feature ( the microphone button on the keyboard ) , or sending email or texts/iMessages through Siri ( holding down the home button , telling Siri to send a message ... ) ? If you 're using the Siri function , when it prompts you if you want to send it , you can ask Siri to " read it to me " or " review it " and it will be read back to you . If you 're just using the dictation ( which technically is n't Siri ) , your best option is to use VoiceOver , as <URL> .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
You need to drag a tab - Safari wo n't let you drag an entire window into another one . You can hit ⌘ T to create a new empty tab ( thus making the tab interface visible ) , then drag your original tab to the other window .
No . As of version 4.5 of the kindle app for IOS in pdf searching is not available . As of version 1.10.7 of the kindle app for OS X in pdf searching is available .
You might want to take a look at <URL> which can record any audio you can hear on your computer . Free to try . There 's also the cheaper , simpler <URL> from the same company .
Yes , but you do n't do it within iTunes . If you want the song files you drop into a particular folder to automatically be added to an iTunes playlist , you use Automator to create a folder action like this one : You start Automator , and create a Folder Action . You select the folder you want as the source of files . Then , the action is " Import Files into iTunes " at which point you select the playlist to which you want the songs added . Then you save the Folder Action .
end question
start question
How to arrange two windows easily to left and right side ?
I use <URL> ( Better Touch Tool ) which includes window snapping , as well as a whole host of other useful features such as extra multitouch gestures , and button management . You can use as much or as little as you want , but window snapping is on by default and just means you drag an application to the top to maximise it , left to align and fill the left half , and to the right for the right . EDIT : This is called BST ( Better Snap Tool ) and it is no longer free . El Capitan has an implemented feature ( press green button until you can drop it to the side ) or check other free tools like <URL> Update : As of Feb 20 , 2016 BST is $ 2.99 USD .
Additionally to the OPlayer app suggested by @Jason Salaz I 've found several other apps that can connect to Windows smb shares : <URL> $ 14.99 <URL> $ 3.99 <URL> $ 3.99 <URL> $ 2.39 <URL> $ 15.99 Unfortunately I could n't find any free apps .
Yes , they can be used interchangeably . The two-finger tap is a shortcut employed by OS X for more convenience / accessibility , however , it has exactly the same function as the control-click .
Remapping a Windows keyboard so that the key positions match a standard Mac keyboard is pretty easy . Just open Keyboard Preferences , and click the Modifier Keys ... button in the Keyboard tab . This lets you change the behaviour of the keys on each attached keyboard ( make sure you select your external one from the top drop-down menu ) . To turn the Windows standard Ctrl ⊞ WinAlt configuration to the Mac standard controloptioncommand ⌘ , just change the Option and Command drop downs so they have the opposite entries ( i.e. Option performs Command and Command performs Option ) . If you want to change the physical keys , most of the premium mechanical keyboards use Cherry switches that have interchangeable key caps . You can get Mac specific modifier key sets from places like <URL> and <URL> . If you want to go nuts , you can even get a fully customized key cap set in a style similar to Apple 's keyboards , as <URL> ( looks pretty nice IMO , but I 'm sure it 's costly ) .
The Apple mini-DisplayPort to VGA or HDMI adapter terminates the Thunderbolt chain where it is connected , so until Apple released new MacBook Pro with two Thunderbolt ports ( similar to the iMac that has two ports ) then you will only get one video signal from the device through the Thunderbolt port . You may find an inexpensive USB to VGA solution to get around this limitation . Initially they were slower , but the newer ones are getting much faster and the software much better . You can then put the most important content on the Thunderbolt port and have the secondary display served over USB . Should a Thunderbolt adapter come about that drives two displays , I 'll update the answer , but nothing has been released ( or even rumored ) even though it 's clearly something the protocol could support . I like this knowledge base article for the clear deprecation of which Macs support two Thunderbolt displays and which ones only support one . <URL>
In the print dialog you should save a new preset . Below you can find the steps to do so . Open the Print dialog . It will look something like this : Check the box . Go to the Presets drop down list and click Type a name for the preset in the dialog and choose if you want this preset available for all your installed printers or just this one . Now choose that preset in the dropdown list . The next time you will print something the preset will be automatically active , so it will print two-sided as default .
I dug around for quite a long time to find this answer and finally found out that under the info box , there is a drop-down menu in the Info box under Info > Options : And the drop-down menu allows you to choose where it will show up : All that converting was done for nothing ...
If all you want is to make it work in Safari : results in : This is left to right , &#8238; but this is right to left , and then this is back to left to right again . The important bit is the &amp; # 8238 ; -- everything after that will be reversed . Note : this assumes that the web page is using UTF-8 ( and if it is n't , it should be ) .
Yes , you can use the shortcut ⌥ option + ⌘ command + W.
Tapping with the trackpad has a delay while the trackpad decides which gesture you are performing . Disabling some gestures will remove this delay in certain cases : If " Smart zoom " is turned on , then a two-finger tap needs to wait to see if you are performing a two-finger double tap . If dragging is enabled ( " with drag lock " or " without drag lock " ) , then a one-finger tap needs to wait to see if you are performing a double tap . ( This setting hides in the Accessibility preference pane . )
Wait until Lion 's release and then you could sort by " date added " <URL>
The Control key is used as a modifier for various purposes in different applications . In OS X , it is also used for Emacs bindings supported in many applications . The <URL> that is recommended for application developers discourages the use of the Control key ( the closest equivalent to the Control modifier key in Windows is the Command key on OS X ) : As much as possible , avoid using the Control key . Because the Control key is already used by some of the universal access features -- as well as in Cocoa text fields where Emacs-style key bindings are often used -- it should be used as a modifier key only when necessary . Here are some examples of shortcuts from <URL> : Sleep and shutdown shortcuts with Control Command-Control-power button Force your Mac to restart Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Show restart/sleep/shutdown dialog Command-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer Command-Option-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer Shift-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Put all displays to sleep Finder shortcuts with Control Command-Control-I Get Summary Info Command-Control-Up Arrow Open the folder that contains the current folder in a new window Application and other OS X shortcuts with Control ( may not work in some applications ) Control-A Move to beginning of line/paragraph Control-B Move one character backward Control-D Delete the character in front of the cursor Control-E Move to end of line/paragraph Control-F Move one character forward Control-H Delete the character behind the cursor Control-K Delete from the character in front of the cursor to the end of the line/paragraph Control-L Center the cursor/selection in the visible area Control-N Move down one line Control-O Insert a new line after the cursor Control-P Move up one line Control-T Transpose the character behind the cursor and the character in front of the cursor Control-V Move down one page Control-Tab Move focus to the next grouping of controls in a dialog or the next table ( when Tab moves to the next cell ) Shift-Control-Tab Move focus to the previous grouping of controls Control-F1 Toggle full keyboard access on or off Control-F2 Move focus to the menu bar Control-F3 Move focus to the Dock Control-F4 Move focus to the active ( or next ) window Shift-Control-F4 Move focus to the previously active window Control-F5 Move focus to the toolbar . Control-F6 Move focus to the first ( or next ) panel Shift-Control-F6 Move focus to the previous panel Control-F7 Temporarily override the current keyboard access mode in windows and dialogs Control-F8 Move to the status menus in the menu bar Command-Option-Control-Comma ( , ) Decrease screen contrast Command-Option-Control-Period ( . ) Increase screen contrast Command-Shift-Control-3 Capture the screen to the Clipboard Command-Shift-Control-4 Capture a selection to the Clipboard Command-Control-C Copy the formatting settings of the selected item and store on the Clipboard Command-Control-D Display the definition of the selected word in the Dictionary application Command-Control-V Apply formatting settings to the selected object ( Paste Ruler Command ) Control-Right Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Left Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Down Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Up Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Space bar Toggle between the current and previous input sources Option-Control-Space bar Toggle through all enabled input sources Universal
A quick search gave me two promising applications : Commercial : <URL> Freeware : <URL> I believe that both do what you want .
This might not have quite the effect you want , but it 's as close as I know how to do .
It appears you can start Fusion headless by executing the following : / Applications/VMware \ Fusion.app / Contents/Library/vmrun - T fusion start ~ / Documents/Virtual \ Machines.localized / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmwarevm / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmx nogui You could also add to your $ PATH or create an alias to have easier access to the command . You can find more info on the command in <URL> . While a bit out-dated , it should still contain relevant information on how to start and stop your server . If you are interested in running headless Linux servers for your development environment etc , I can also highly recommend to use VirtualBox instead . It is free , has extensive command-line support , and while running headless VMs Fusion loses most if its advantages ( seamless GUI integration ) over VirtualBox anyway . What 's more , tools like <URL> can even facilitate running these environments to a much greater extent . With the addition of a paid add-on ( " provider " ) , Vagrant can control VMWare as well as VirtualBox for you <URL> .
The reasoning behind these kind of differences is what makes OS X different from other OSes . The MS Word behavior you describe was born in ( or at least comes from ) Windows . The Pages " page " allows you to resize the window and make the content fit the size , therefore occupying the entire document window . Since you can option + cmd + P to show the pages thumbnails , my guess is that the way Cocoa control works makes more sense if the page is left-aligned . Since under OSX you can only resize a window from the lower right corner , this also means they do n't have to worry about keeping your page visible if you perform a fancy resize from a different place ( because you ca n't ) . Lower right means you 'll just be making the visible area smaller , but never really " covering " part of the horizontal part of the page , and if you do , Pages will make it smaller to a certain degree until it wo n't let you make the window smaller ( horizontally speaking ) . Could all this be made if the page was in the middle like MS Word ? Possibly , but it would have looked much worse and the space on the left of the page would have been wasted space . You would also have a " moving " page when you resize if you had previously zoomed in in order to accommodate the contents in a proper way . If you keep you document window the size you want to see it , I do n't see why you need the page in the center , since the MS Word border you talk to , is a wasted screen space . If you want to see the text in a more " relative to a real page " thing , you can always use " Page Thumbnails " ( and make it bigger ) or turn on " Show Layout " shift + cmd + L , but that 's as best as you can get . I really never thought about this difference until I read your question , but after using Pages for a couple of years , I can say I like the Pages ' approach better . It 's a matter of window management and operating system differences I guess .
You can <URL> , but I 'd suggest leaving them separate since you 'd potentially have incompatible preference , cache , and other " Library " files between the two versions of OS X. Perhaps symlink the corresponding preferences for the apps that you want to share data . iTunes Library is easily shared , just hold the Option key when launching iTunes the first time to specify the library to open ( it will remember it subsequently ) . Since Office 2011 wants to use the Microsoft User Data folder within ~ / Documents , you 'll likely have to symlink this folder from one of the profiles .
It 's not clear if you are looking to evaluate things or make a permanent move , but there is a free solution to evaluate the software as long as you meet the terms for an evaluation license from Microsoft . <URL> and run it to make a default Windows 8 container Register for or log in to <URL> <URL> to your Mac Set that Windows ISO disk image file as the file in the " Optical disk " of the virtual machine by using the Virtual Media Manager window ( Command-D ) Start up the Windows 8 container ( it will confirm you are using the " Optical disk " to start the machine Progress through the agreements and start buttons until this screen : Do not choose the default Upgrade since you have nothing on this " new PC " . Choose Custom : Install Windows only ( advanced ) Choose the rest of the settings as you please for making your account tied into the Windows Live email and you should be up and running within 10 minutes and a couple reboots of the software " PC " . Other than learning how VirtualBox allocates the keyboard and mouse , you should have 90 days to experiment with the new Windows OS and decide if you want to dive in with BootCamp or a commercial VM solution such as <URL> or <URL> .
The <URL> describes the <URL> that you can use to adjust how the speech synthesis engines process your input text . The command enables the use of <URL> and <URL> . For example , the following text includes a phonemic version of your chosen word ( select the text , Control-click , and select Speech > Start Speaking to hear it directly in Safari ) : This syntax is accepted by the say command in the shell and AppleScript ( though you will have to modify the ( above ) use of single - and double-quotes to suit the string literal syntax of your chosen context ) .
A different user recently posted a similar question on <URL> . Since my answer was accepted as correct , I will repost it below . The Basic steps to install 64 bit Windows 10 are as follows . I assume here that your current configuration is the default " Out of the Box " OS X installation . Download the correct Boot Camp Support Software for your Mac . Transfer these files to a FAT formatted flash drive . For your Mac , use the same software as for a 64 bit Windows 7 installation . These files can be found at <URL> Use the Disk Utility to reduce the size of your OS X partition . In the empty space , create a FAT formatted partition with the label BOOTCAMP . Burn the Windows 10 iso file to a DVD . You can use the Disk Utility to do this . I always use a RW DVD . This takes longer to burn , but is reusable . Restart the Mac with the DVD in the optical drive . Hold down the alt/option key and select the DVD icon with the label Windows . Install Windows to the Boot Camp partition . You will have to tell the installer to reformat this partition as NTFS . DO NOT CHANGE THE PARTITIONING DURING THE INSTALLATION PROCESS . At some point during the installation , the computer will reboot . When it does , it will boot to OS X . This is to be expected . Go to System Preferences and instruct OS X to boot back to Windows . The installation process will continue . After the Windows installation has completed , install the Boot Camp Support software stored on the flash drive . To accomplish this , you will have to right click on the icon and select Compatibility Mode . I do not consider the process to be that difficult . The most challenging step is creating the FAT formatted partition labeled BOOTCAMP . If something goes wrong , you are in danger of loosing data on your OS X partition .
end question
start question
How to enable password lock on Notes in iOS 9.3 ?
The relatively difficult-to-find solution to the problem is to go to the Note you wish to lock : in the top-right corner , tap the " Share " icon on the bottom row , there will be a lock symbol with a caption that says " Lock Note " . select that symbol you will be prompted to create a password that locks this note , but remember that this single password will secure all your protected notes , not just the note you 're on . You can also use Touch ID to secure your notes . Remember that if you secure the note , it will no longer be accessible by devices running versions of OS X older than 10.11.4 , or devices running a version of iOS different from 9.3 or higher . Next time you try to open that Note ( or others that are locked with the passcode ) , you 'll be prompted for your password to unlock it . You can change the Notes password by going to your Home screen , then Settings > Notes > Password .
If you want to create an AppleScript application to put in the Dock you can use the following code in OS X Yosemite ( and latter , I believe ) . In Script Editor , save it as Toggle Grayscale changing the File Format : to : Application You can give the App a different icon via copy and paste into the icon of the App 's Get Info sheet and then drag and drop the App bundle onto the Dock . You 'll have to give permission under Accessibility on the Privacy tab of Security &amp; Privacy in System Preferences in order to run it successfully . If you 'd like to use a bash script using the code provided by IconDaemon , the following code will toggle between using color and grayscale based on how it 's currently set . <URL>
The currently playing song shows up in a horizontal now playing bar . Click the three dots on the right hand side of the bar . Click on the album name at the top of the pop up menu .
Most likely you have not enabled ssh for all users in the sharing preference pane . Either go add the user you created or tick " Allow access for : All Users "
Open System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy > Privacy > Accessibility > " Click the lock to make changes " > Select " Cinch "
It looks like every app determines what to show on its notifications ; I do n't see a global switch . You can , however , turn the lock screen notification off . Find it on Settings > Notifications > [ App ] , look for " Show on lock screen " and turn it off to disallow the app to show its notifications when the phone is locked . Skype does not have the " Show Previews " switch available at the Notifications settings for Messages -- and I ca n't find anything about that subject on the <URL> , but <URL> of <URL> <URL> the <URL> with no response -- so it appears that each app controls what it 's shown on the notification .
After being told on the Apple Discussion boards that this ca n't be done , I found a solution . I re-entered all the original log in information into the account details . It took a bit to get them to stick , because iPad kept trying to verify the account , which it could n't do , because the legacy server was n't responding , but I finally got it . Once the I had the original credentials entered , all the original Inbox and Sent emails were back . One important key : Although I did n't change my email address , the new server did require a different username syntax . The old username was just " name " while the new username was " name@mydomain.com " . That little change is what caused iPad to decide it was an entirely different account .
So far the only way I 've found to do this is to manually choose the alert style for the app in Notification Center . The default is banner , so enabling push notifications requires setting the alert style to banner , turn on badging , sounds and enable in notification center , and similarly disabling all these ( banner style to none ) to disable . I really wish there were a single on/off setting for this but there does n't appear to be . Update : I got my wish . As of iOS 8 I believe there is now a single on/off switch to enable notifications for an app . This resides in the Settings - > Notifications area under the specific app .
My solution is to just use a different QuickLook generator . My generator of choice is <URL> . Antialiasing works perfectly well with it and it 'll even highlight source code files -- which is its main purpose . There is one bug , however , that if you are dealing with any directories or files containing a ' ( single quote ) , there will be no QuickLook available for it due to the way the generator sends the path to the highlighter program . Another downside is that the filename will not show in the QuickLook window . Instead , it will just say " Source file " . It also will not work on textClipping files .
Simplenote has an iOS app and it syncs back to the Web , so can be accessed from the iOS device , and/or your Mac or PC . <URL> On your Mac , apps like Notational Velocity will also sync . There are apps for PCs well .
Any method to restore a device , bypassing iTunes restrictions either by using DFU/Recovery or by not using iTunes , would still require that the device go through the setup process . It is during this process that the device is connected to Wi-Fi and verified with Apple servers . This checks the database of Find my iPhone devices , making sure that the device is not listed . If the device is linked to an Apple ID , with Find my iPhone enabled , then the device will show the Activation Lock screen , and the Apple ID of the account with Find my iPhone enabled on the device will need to be entered . Completely draining the battery would not fix this , since the Apple ID and Find my iPhone state is stored on Apple servers and retrieved during setup , not from the device itself . Theoretically yes , 3rd-party software could gain access to a device and restore it , however as mentioned earlier the Find my iPhone state is stored on Apple 's servers , so this would be of no benefit , and would not be different to restoring using iTunes when the device is in Recovery mode . Even though a jailbreak has now been released for iOS 7 , a device with a currently active Activation Lock ca n't be jailbroken .
Syncing the notes to your computer , then moving the notes to your email notes and letting it sync back to the phone would be the easiest . Without syncing you could email each note to yourself by clicking the envelope icon at the bottom of each note . Then turn it into a note in your email account , of course this would take a long time but you would n't have to sync with your computer .
Yes . That is possible in iOS 10 or later version ( I think ) . However to do that simply you have to turn off a specific option provided in Notes settings . Method Goto Settings - > Notes Then turn off Save Media to Photos . That will solve your problem .
I am happy to tell you that keeping it charging will not damage your MacBook in any way ! There is also a way to do your requested way of streaming data to the monitor . You can use the amazing Apple TV . This is not only for TV 's because you can stream to monitors , and your own TV ! ( which personally is amazing if you have a large flatscreen ! ) However I am not 100 % sure this is compatible with all types of monitors or TV 's so i would recommend just keeping it plugged in because like I said earlier that will not damage your computer . I hope this helped ! The reason your having this problem is because monitors are n't computers . They do n't have wifi , you ca n't connect them to anything wirelessly . Monitors do n't have any form of computational power except for converting computer code to images which still requires being connected to a computer to work .
Go to Settings - > Safari - > General , Authorise yourself and try to update your password there .
Here is what you can do , on at least iOS 9 . Launch Notes on your iPhone or iPad While on the list of notes , enter Edit - mode . Select all of the Notes Tap on " Move to target . . " ( Might not be accurate translation ) Select " iCloud Notes " That 's all .
An administrator can change your login password without knowing the old password . The is no way for anyone to change a keychain password without knowing the old password . Normally your login password is the same as the keychain password . For you to change your login password , you need to enter the old password and new password . After the software changes your login password , an attempt is made to change the keychain password . This only succeeds if the old password you entered is the current keychain password . If not , then the current keychain password remain unchanged . When an administrator overrides you old login password with a new password , the old password is never entered into the software . Without the old login password , the software can not change the keychain password . If you do not know the old password ( i.e. the current keychain password ) , then you have to " <URL> " . Doing so erases all the passwords stored in the keychain .
From the Messages app section of the Apple Mountain Lion <URL> : Turn on read receipts , and they 'll see when you 've read a message . According to this <URL> , you can send read receipts in the Message app by following these steps : Open Preferences in iMessage , and select the " Accounts " tab Select the Message account from the left Check the box next to " Send Read Receipts " to enable Close out of iMessage Preferences Screenshot from this post : I can confirm the presence of the checkbox on my own Mac .
Nevermind , I managed to get it working following the advise of another <URL> on the Apple forums ; namely : Same thing happend to me on my 3gs , i went to Settings ... iCloud ... Delete Account then signed in again to add it . The iCloud inbox was displayed afterwards . This also fixed the problem of notes , which now show up properly on the notes application .
Without jailbreaking your iPhone there Is no option to change that .
end question
start question
How can I disable Spaces in Lion ?
Enter Mission Control Hover over the selected space or hold & #x 2325 ; remove by clicking on the x
You should boot on the <URL> and use Terminal there to unlock the drive using the recovery key ( you ca n't check the recovery key if you are booted on the crypted disk , since the unlocking process will fail : already unlocked ) . To start with , you will need to identify the Logical Volume UUID of the encrypted drive using the diskutil corestorage list command : Running that command will give you a listing of all Core Storage volumes . Once you have the UUID of the encrypted volume , you can then unlock the encrypted volume using the following commands : When prompted enter the passphrase you would like to test . This article provides more information and screenshots , <URL> .
I found the answer : log out of MobileMe in the System Prefs panel , and then the iCloud panel will prompt you to log in ( instead of offering the " Move to iCloud " button ) . Log in with your iCloud account and you should be all set . Worked perfectly for me .
Open Safari and go to Preferences , then click on the Advanced tab . There 's a checkbox at the bottom titled " Show Develop menu in menu bar " . Check that then close the Preferences window . You 'll notice that in your menu bar between Bookmarks and Window you have a menu called Develop . Near the bottom of that menu list is Disable Images -- click it . Now your browsing experience is image free !
The feature description is a bit misleading . It appears that by " close Notes " , Apple means " close the main Notes window " , not " close the Notes app " , which ( not surprisingly ) leaves other windows open . In fact , the context menu refers to the main Notes window as Notes : So what Apple 's description basically means : Even if you close Notes , the note stays open on your desktop . = You do n't need to use the overview window at all times . You can use similar to By the way , is still available in Mountain Lion and has been upgraded to version 9.0 .
Just use the Keyboard pane of System Preferences . Click " Modifier Keys " , and set " Caps Lock " to " No Action " .
In add a plist entry to the file such that the key is and the value is . Here is an example : assuming the file does n't exist , use a text editor to save the following code : The full file name and path of the above should be .
Update : The below hack worked when using <URL> instead of the DWA-160 ones . Compatible drivers using the same chipset were identified with the help of the <URL> database . A quick Google search shows that <URL> in using <URL> ( which uses the <URL> ) , although not without some minor hacking to make the driver recognize the different hardware IDs : Install driver package Extract kernel extension from installer : Show Package Contents of the installer <URL> Archive.pax.gz grab AtherosOtusMac.kext Edit plist and change or add your device id and product id converted to decimal ( illustrated below ) : Show Package Contents of AtherosOtusMac.kext Open Info.plist within ( using either Xcode or a text or XML editor ) Open System Information , find your TP-Link under USB and note down Product ID and Vendor ID Convert both numbers from hexadecimal to decimal ( you can use Calculator.app ) Replace idProduct and idVendor on the first model with your numbers Use <URL> to install your modified AtherosOtusMac.kext use DWA-160 . app ( in ) to connect Although considering the price of a new Wifi USB stick with OS X drivers , this may not be worth the effort , unless you 're doing this sort of thing for fun :-) Illustration of the plist step ( with my USB mouse as example , because I do n't have a TL-WN821N laying around ) :
Or change the shortcut to something else in System Preferences :
I reinstalled the OS and the problem went away . I 'll mark this answer as correct until someone comes with a better one .
To uninstall AdobeAIR by hand , quit any unnecessary applications ( specially applications that might use AdobeAIR ) . Then delete the following files and folders . / Applications/Adobe/Flash Player/AddIns/airappinstaller ( alternatively remove the / Applications/Adobe folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) / Applications/Utilities/Adobe AIR Application Installer.app / Applications/Utilities/Adobe AIR Uninstaller.app / Library/Frameworks/Adobe AIR.framework / Users/Shared/Library / Application Support/Adobe/AIR ( alternatively remove the / Users/Shared/Library folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) The following files are in your Home Folder ( represented by ' ~ ' ) . You can access this Library folder by holding down ⌥ while accessing the Finder menu Go > Library . ~ / Library/Application Support/Adobe/AIR ( alternatively remove the ~ / Library/Application Support/Adobe folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) ~ / Library/Caches/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller ~ / Library/Caches/com . adobe.air.Installer ~ / Library/Preferences/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller.plist ~ / Library/Preferences/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller.plist.lockfile ~ / Library/Preferences/Macromedia / Flash Player / #Security / FlashPlayerTrust/air .1.0 . trust.cfg ~ / Library/Preferences/Macromedia / Flash Player/www . macromedia.com/bin/airappinstaller These files were found by scanning the file system before and after installing the latest version of AdobeAIR to see the file changes that were made .
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
What I 've done to achieve this is to simply not assign any applications to any special space at all . That way , when opening an application , it opens on the space I 'm curently on , letting me organize my work into different projects as I want . On Lion , the organization is kept through reboots , at least for some applications . There is also the utility <URL> , which lets you save configurations of different application windows to easily recreate spaces you use often .
Yes you can . Just changes the shortcut setting in the System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcut . You will find Mission Control section for shortcut , and there is entry called Switch to Desktop . You could define your own shortcut here .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Mission Control and change the settings for " Move left a space " and " Move right a space " or disable them completely .
do it with the scipy superpack , by <URL> . It 's very easy , automated and it works ( using it right now ! ) . It also takes care of installing Fortran for you , which is mandatory for the python libraries to work . PS : If you have Lion , Numpy is already part of it .
Hold down option when dragging . Will disable " sticky " edges as needed , when needed , without disabling it all the time by default .
If you remove the Microsoft Database daemon from login and do not open Entourage you should receive no notifications .
I found this application that claims to do what you asked for . <URL>
First of all , make sure you have added your systems knows about your Apple ID ( go to System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups - > Your User - > Apple ID ) . Then launch Chess ; obviously you 'll need to have an internet connection . After a short wait ( a second or two in my case , might depend on your internet connection ) , a badge like the following should appear in the Chess window : After it appears , you should simply be able to go to Game - > New ... and select GameCenter Match in Players .
end question
start question
Is it possible to install an SSD and/or another hard drive after purchase in a 27 " iMac ?
On the immediate downsides - You will need special tools and be handling some delicate parts . Also , there is <URL> causes the fans to run faster with non-apple drives . If you really want to get dust between the LCD and the front glass on a brand new mac and take the chance of ripping a tiny ribbon cable - just do some research at ifixit.com or talk with a local tech that works on new iMacs a lot . Do also research fan control and know if you are not planning on an Apple specification drive to install . My guess is Apple SSD are expensive because the parts are cherry picked to be the best of a lot ( more so than the SSD consumers buy ) and perhaps loaded with custom firmware and generally have temp sensors specific to the mac . I could be totally wrong , but even if you feel the drives are overpriced , Apple installing any SSD is better than a consumer due to the labor for for installing them is almost nil as they are installed at the most economical time - at assembly . If you ca n't afford it now - why not expand to an external SSD over firewire or ThunderBolt later . They are totally silent and small . It just seems the risks of DIY on a new mac make it better for most people to pay a trained tech to do the install .
<URL> will be your best bet . There 's several tutorials laying around on getting OS 9 running in SheepShaver .
I realize you tagged this as a Snow Leopard question , but if you upgrade to Lion , the new command-line utility will let you compare backups :
By all means - vote with your wallet . It 's trivial for a trained technician to replace the hard drive on a Time Capsule . Rather than put the rubber covering back on the base , you can use <URL> to raise the capsule up from it 's shelf . Most feel iFixit has decent <URL> if you care to DIY .
Yes ! After you purchase and download Lion from the App Store , the " Install " screen will appear : Before you click Continue , open your Applications folder and look for the icon labelled Install Mac OS X Lion : If you missed this chance ( and the App is deleted from your system ) , you can always re-download the package using the App Store app . Even if it shows Lion Installed , you can hold the option key pressed , then press the button to re-download the Lion installer app . Right-click ( or Ctrl + Click ) on this and choose Show Package Contents . Navigate to Contents > SharedSupport and look for InstallESD.dmg . Use Disk Utility ( in the Utilities folder inside the Applications folder ) to burn InstallESD.dmg to a DVD . Drag the InstallESD.dmg file to the Disk Utility window , select it , then choose Burn ... from the Images menu . A dialog appears allowing you to burn it to a DVD . The name of the DVD does n't really matter , but I named mine Mac OS X Lion .
Yes , security vulnerabilities that would allow people to hack or infect Macs and iOS products do exist , though they 're not exploited very often . <URL> is an annual contest where competitors try to hack into machines to win them as prizes . Both Macs and iOS products are hacked most years . Here is <URL> : Friday , Apple released an update to its mobile operating system ( iOS 4.3.4 ) which patches a couple of vulnerabilities that left a door open for malware infections on the iPad , 3rd and 4th generation iPod touch , iPhone 4 , and iPhone 3GS . Apple 's update describes the CoreGraphics vulnerability as " A buffer overflow ... in FreeType 's handling of TrueType fonts . Viewing a maliciously crafted PDF file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution . " [ ... ] This update comes on the heels of an alert from German IT group BSI , which warned of an unpatched vulnerability that would " allow attackers to gain access to the entire system with administrative privileges . " Apple does " verify " any software for their App Stores , but developers have been known to sneak in features without Apple 's testers seeing them , so do n't expect this to entirely protect you .
To your questions : Is it possible to upgrade the SSD at all ? I have heard rumours that they are soldered in after 2010 , and are not replaceable . Yes , it should be possible , <URL> have done it . This video ( How to Upgrade/Replace the Hard Drive in the 2011 15 " MacBook Pro ) shows the procedure ( just for information , I understand you do n't want to void your AppleCare warranty ) : <URL> . My city and country ( Tallinn , Estonia ) has no official Apple stores that I know of , but does have Apple-authorised resellers . Are they the appropriate place to get this done ? Yes , I 'd definitely go to an Apple authorized reseller . I could find Premium resellers in Tallinn ( see <URL> ) : You can select another country/language from <URL> ( though I used the trick explained here <URL> ) .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
Yes - Apple provides an internal SATA drive with standard connectors but custom firmware . <URL> if you take the screen off carefully you can replace it , you may have to buy a bracket to secure it SSD that do n't match the existing 2.5 inch drive mounting screws . Looking at the steps it does n't seem to be to complicated to do but with the 5k iMac you need to be extremely careful since you have to remove the speakers . I would paste in the step by step images however there a load of them and you would be better off going to the site and taking a look at the images . Also make sure you have the right screw drivers since its a t20 screw you would need a T20 * 100m screw driver .
You can <URL> , but I 'd suggest leaving them separate since you 'd potentially have incompatible preference , cache , and other " Library " files between the two versions of OS X. Perhaps symlink the corresponding preferences for the apps that you want to share data . iTunes Library is easily shared , just hold the Option key when launching iTunes the first time to specify the library to open ( it will remember it subsequently ) . Since Office 2011 wants to use the Microsoft User Data folder within ~ / Documents , you 'll likely have to symlink this folder from one of the profiles .
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
Your best bet is to not " defragment " SSD storage . The life span of the drive is a function of how the controller decides to write data and how much of the capacity is held in reserve to hide small errors over time . An SSD in general will wear out due to write exhaustion before a hard drive will as the magnetic media can withstand several orders of magnitude more writes than SSD memory cells . So the life span is basically set , and defragmentation means more writes than are needed and may in practice increase the chance your storage will degrade before something else causes you to stop using it , Granted , most people are not going to wear out their SSD - especially when you consider the warranties for OEM parts are often longer than one year / three years in the case of AppleCare - but reducing things that can cause thousands ( or millions ) of unnecessary erase and re-write operations is prudent advice . But it gets worse for defragmentation than simply adding wear to the memory . Since an SSD has no moving parts , retrieving a block of data has no penalty due to one block being stored on one chip versus another . The distance electrically to all the data is basically a constant . This is not true for a traditional magnetic drive with spinning platters and a movable read head . On a spinning drive , the distance between two blocks is affected by head armature movement , rotational timing and cache status . Retrieval time is not at all constant , so " fragmentation " has a performance impact on traditional hard drives due to the mechanical nature of the storage . Furthermore , SSD controllers selectively manage storage so defragmentation is not only unlikely to speed things up , might actually act counter to the normal storage prediction algorithms , and slow down access since the controller decides where to store data using the extra overhead . Since the device can not erase just a block of storage , when you " delete " something on SSD , it often is just marked free and will not get actually erased until all of the data next to it is marked as free or the drive runs low on space and triggers a clean up on it 's own . Letting the SSD manage it 's fragmentation works better than trying to have the OS micromanage storage that does n't match traditional hard drive storage mechanics .
Nope . The only way you can run iOS apps on OS X is if you have the iPhone Simulator and have a version of the app specifically compiled to run on the simulator . The iPhone Simulator ( available from Xcode ) is not an emulator and ca n't run ARM code , which means that it has to run a specific version of iOS 7 designed for OS X , and is not able to run iOS apps that have not been designed to run on this version of iOS 7 ( i.e. IPAs from the App Store ) .
If you dropped your computer and it stopped booting right after that , you may now have a defective hard drive . I do not recommend attempting to re-install the operating system ( Mountain Lion ) , as this may cause data loss . My current recommendation is to confirm that you have a good backup of the data that is on your computer . If you do not have a backup , it may be necessary to attempt data recovery from the drive that is in the machine . If you do have a current/valid backup of your data , I would recommend attempting to boot from another disk ( CD/DVD , USB flash drive , etc. ) , and attempting to open Disk Utility to see if the software is reporting SMART failures with the drive . Alternately , very poor performance or clicking sounds while attempting to view/access the drive may be indicative of a defective drive . Regardless , at this point , a system re-install is not likely to help with your issues ( based on the problem description ) . If you are at all concerned about data loss , or are hesitant to attempt diagnosis/troubleshooting of your machine , I would recommend taking the machine into an <URL> for further assistance .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
No . There is no way to interface a CD drive with an iOS device . The best way to do this is to have your iOS device registered to a copy of iTunes running on a Mac or PC , and to connect the iOS device to the Mac or PC via WiFi or a USB cable . This would presuppose that you have a suitable CD drive connected to the Mac or PC for ripping audio . However , it occurs to me that you could probably rip music to AAC or MP3 format on a Mac or PC and then email those files to yourself , check the email on your iOS device , and then open the email attachments on the iOS device . That would get the music files in there .
Yes it 's possible , you can find a couple of useful guides for the steps required . Here is one from <URL> . The main points are to do it before installing Mountain Lion as the installer will delete the install files , and use the disk image in the application package as the source for your USB key or DVD . The USB key will generally give you better performance if you need to reinstall OS X later .
According to <URL> I can safely ( re ) move the installer application and still download it again from the App Store without paying again . It is unclear whether I will get update notifications . <URL> on a story about an attempt to upgrade Xcode with low disk space indicates that the move to an external disk may be tracked by the OS , and an upgrade via the Mac App Store can result in the moved application ( even if it 's on an external disk ) being upgraded . I did not get an upgrade notification for Xcode 4.0.1 , even though my original installer application was still in the folder . I moved the installer application to an external disk ( via , because dragging it in Finder gave me the message " You may need to enter the name and password for an administrator on this computer to change the item named " Install Xcode " . " ) , I 'll report back what happens when I try to upgrade it via the Mac App Store .
Yes . Just leave the app in full screen mode when you quit the application . As long as it 's using Lion 's full screen library ( and not some hack of its own ) , the next time you start the app it will start back up in full screen mode . Just tested this with Safari and Sparrow and they both restarted in full screen mode . Chrome 15.0.874.106 , however , did not . I do n't think Chrome 's full screen support on Lion is quite right , it might not be using Lion 's full screen window methods in the ways necessary to have it resume in full screen mode .
end question
start question
Can I upgrade directly from Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard to 10.7 Lion ?
According to <URL> , you need to get on Snow Leopard before installing Lion . It also gives hardware compatibility requirements , which are basically that you have an Intel Core 2 Duo ( note : NOT Intel Core Duo ) , Core i3 , Core i5 , Core i7 , or Xeon processor in your Mac .
The cheapest way to upgrade seems to be to buy and install Snow Leopard ( <URL> ) and then download and install Lion from the App Store ( <URL> ) . This totals to just under $ 60 . The other alternative is buying Lion on a USB sick . It 's <URL> . According to the page , Apple seems to want you to buy Snow Leopard before using the USB installer ( although you should be fine skipping SL technically ) , making this even more expensive . If you really want to have a physical USB disk with Lion , you can make your own either before or after you install using instructions you can easily find here ( on Ask Different ) or elsewhere on the Internet .
I recommend using the Shared Folders feature in VMware Fusion . I have a Boot Camp partition as well running Windows 7 . When I need to access files that are on the Mac OS X side from within Windows , I go the VM preferences and enable each folder I want to share ( you can share multiple folders form different locations ) . All shared folders will then be shown on the Z :\ drive in Windows . Hope this helps .
Yes , Apple sells older OS as redeemable downloads from the web store . Apple sells <URL> , <URL> , for # 14 each on the UK store . The US store link is below and it appears the part number is the same no matter which store you select : <URL> <URL>
These apps ( and the full screen mode ) require APIs that are not available on versions prior to Lion . Even if one could purchase Mail separately , it would n't run .
You can use the ECM tools created by Neill Corlett , the creator of ECM . Just run " unecm " on the file . <URL> If that seems intimidating , there is a <URL> here that uses a GUI and contains links to the tools used .
Open Terminal , and type this command to list all partitions on your hard drive or SSD : Identify the " Recovery HD . " For example : Then run the following ( replacing [ ID ] with your identifier ( will most often be disk0s3 ) . So the following would look like : The disk image inside the Recovery HD partition has been marked invisible , so use the Terminal command to mount it : Now , from the newly mounted Mac OS X Base System Image , double-click the ' Install Mac OS X ' application and proceed past the licensing agreement . Choose the external drive or spare partition when the installer asks where you 'd like to install OS X Lion . Once the installer completes the download , do not restart your system . Rather , quit the installer . If you restart , you 'll likely lose the local Lion installer . Once you have the InstallESD.dmg in the Mac OS X Install Data folder , you can burn it to a DVD , or image it to a USB flash drive to create your very own Lion boot disk . This article was adapted from : <URL> All credits go to : <URL>
Yes . As long as you 're running the most up-to-date Snow Leopard version ( 10.6.8 ) , you can directly upgrade to Mountain Lion , as detailed on <URL> . Just download from the App Store and you should be good to go .
Automatically Through Software Update It is likely that OS X will automatically prompt you to download and install any recommended firmware update . This happens as part of OS X 's software update process . See <URL> for the specific update steps on older Macs : Learn how to locate , download , and apply a firmware update to an Intel-based Mac computer . All about the <URL> . Manually via the Apple Support Site Alternatively , you can <URL> on the Apple Support site . For example , this update appeared soon after the Mac Pro1 .1 was released in 2006 : <URL> : The SMC Firmware Update adjusts fan behavior in the Mac Pro . Download and run the updater . The updater will check and prompt you if it is required . These firmware updates are effectively the same as a PC BIOS . As a Mac user , there is nothing to manage or update at the BIOS level ; it is controlled by Apple .
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
So you can keep using your old 500GB HDD I would buy a cheap enclosure for it . They can be had with USB 2.0 for as little as $ 10 . Concerning the Software-Side , neither SuperDuper nor Carbon Copy Cloner are bad . Personally I , however , prefer Apple 's own Disk Utility . Simply boot from your Install DVD or Restore Partition ( if you use Lion ) , holding down the ALT key while you power on your machine . Both the Install DVD and the Restore Partition give you access to Disk Utility . There simply hit the Restore tab and drag and drop your Source an Destination volume accordingly . If you do not want to buy a new HDD enclosure simply clone your internal HDD to your spare external using the aforementioned way . Then replace your Book 's HDD with the SSD . And clone everything back to it .
Yes , I was able to update from 10.7.3 to 10.8 without running software updates ( 10.7.4 ) and Mountain Lion runs great .
No , you can install Lion directly if you want . This will save you a lot of time , as you would otherwise have to upgrade from Leopard to Snow Leopard first , only to upgrade to Lion afterwards . Buy a bootable OS X Lion USB stick You can buy a bootable OS X Lion USB Thumb Drive from the Apple Store : <URL> Create a bootable OS X Lion USB stick or DVD based on the Mac App Store download Buy and download Lion from the Mac App Store . The installer should show up in your folder . Right-click on the installer and hit " Show Package Contents " . Navigate to and look for a file called . Open up Disk Utility and drag the DMG file into the left-hand sidebar . If you 're burning it to a DVD , insert your DVD , select the disk image in the sidebar , and hit the " Burn " button . Skip down to the last step to use it . If you want to burn Lion to a USB flash drive , plug it in and click on it in the left-hand sidebar in Disk Utility . Go to the Partition tab and select " 1 Partition " from the dropdown menu . Choose " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " on the left . Hit the " Options " button under the partition table and choose " GUID Partition Table " . You 'll need this to make the drive bootable on a Mac . Hit the " Apply " button when you 're done to format your drive ( note : it will erase everything on the drive ) . Click on the " Restore " tab , choose the file as the source and your flash drive as the destination . Hit the " Apply " button and it will create your bootable USB drive . Reboot into OS X and hold the option key when you hear the startup chime . You can boot into your DVD or flash drive from there .
first , on unix is the location for stuff like that . second , it 's much easier to type as it is in lower case . so , not so unreasonable decision by apple 's engineers .
You 're probably looking for Skype 2.8.0.866 ( PPC ) , which you can find searching the <URL> website . It was released on 29 November , 2010 . Supported Systems : Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard ( PowerPC )
You 're five major system updates back from El Capitan , and Apple has made a lot of changes to code , file arrangements , database structures , network connectivity etc. in the meantime . Apple usually does a pretty good job of clearing away the old to make way for the new , but things do slip through . I recently killed a few prefs files from 2007 that Migration Assistant kindly transferred to my 2014 mini . Invisible files and such often gets copied too . iTunes data structures have changed significantly , with loss of artwork or metadata upon upgrade being fairly common . Apple is pretty good , but they 're not infallible . With a jump of that many years , I 'd go for the clean install , followed by thoughtful installation of needed Apps , and manual transfer of docs , pics , music etc. . That way you 'll end up with a thoroughly modern System rather than a System that also contains a hodgepodge of used or unused pieces dating from an earlier decade .
It is best to upgrade and then migrate . Usually problems occur while upgrading , and it is best to upgrade or install from scratch , as opposed to upgrade on a system which might have something incompatible already installed .
<URL> is a free OS X GUI to the <URL> command line utility . It will get you started on the path to rsync enlightenment . You can save common sync operations to recall them at a later time for easy rsync . And it supports the common rsync use case scenarios : push A to B but leave stuff that 's in B but not A in place , push A to B and delete stuff that 's in B but not in A , make A and B look the same ( with a conflict report ) .
Apparently both Keychain 's files are in the same place in Both OS versions <URL> <URL> . . Copying all the folder 's content from one to another should do the trick .
I did it . ( Apple Developer ) . I have a second computer that I use for all beta testing , running OS X 10.6 . I used the app store on that computer to download the Lion Beta Installer . It downloads and installs just like any other app . You then run the Lion Beta Installer app and it reboots and installs Lion as if it came off a CD . After another reboot , you are running Lion , with all your apps and settings working just fine . Hope this does not defy the NDA .
end question
start question
How can I access to internet in iPhone 4 with USB or other way through my mac book pro ?
You can do this by sharing your MacBook Pro 's internet connection - typically called an ad-hoc network . You will need to connect your USB aircard , and then open System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing . ( <URL> ) Select USB from the drop down menu next to " Share your connection from : " . Then select the " Wifi " from the checkboxes below . Check the Internet Sharing option to the left , then join it with your iPhone . <URL> that you may find helpful in setting up an ad-hoc network . While you are using USB the steps <URL> should be very similar to your situation .
Little Snitch is like a Ferrari if you can afford it . There is a now discontinued little app that does the same for 10.6 and before Yosemite . <URL> : Allows you to select who is to be blocked and who not .
there is a commandline app called that you have to run as root . for example will give you the list of apps that are set to update . You can then run This wo n't let you install a new application that you have n't already downloaded though .
You have to jailbreak the iPhone and install an expensive program called ( check spelling ) from Cydia . This allows the iPhone to host a wifi network that a Kindle can connect to . Ask if you need more details , I 'm on my iPhone now so do n't want to type much :)
It appears there are multiple ways . The first , is <URL> Automatic Downloads and downloading previous purchases are not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Automatic Downloads and downloading past purchased music and TV Shows is supported only in the US and is not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Previous purchases may be unavailable if they are no longer on the iTunes Store . Downloading past purchased TV Shows requires iTunes 10.4 or later . It details the following methods : Open the iTunes Store on your device . Make sure you are signed in with the same account used for the original purchase . Tap Purchased from the bottom navigation bar . From the Purchased tab , tap the artist name for the content you intend to download again . Once you 've located the music you are looking for , tap the download button . Note : To download all songs from a purchased album , tap on the Album 's toggle button to switch to Album view . Once you redownload the music to your phone , they will transfer to your iTunes library when you sync the device . And an alternate method using the new <URL> ( it 's of note that when I tested this method , I could redownload books and apps but not music ; your experience may , however , differ ) .
iPhone 4 supports four GSM frequencies ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) . Phones like these are usually referred to as " quad-band " or " world-phones " , because of these frequencies , most carriers around the world will support one or more of them . Once unlocked , you should be able to use it pretty much anywhere that has a GSM network . You wo n't be able to use it on carriers that use CDMA networks as that 's a different type of wireless radio entirely . CDMA does n't use SIM cards , so that 's an easy way to tell them apart . One other thing you should keep in mind is that iPhone 4 uses a micro-SIM . If your European provider does n't provide micro-SIMs , you 'll need to take a regular sized SIM and cut it to size . Due to the popularity of the iPhone outside the US , even in countries where it 's sold only on the gray market , it 's pretty easy to find small cellphone vendors that can do this for you .
You can send a notification from the command line with this <URL> utility . Getting the notification data off a site can be fairly involved , requires at least some decent scripting and/or web coding knowledge , and is probably a better question to pose on <URL> . The basic outline of such a script would be : Open a site Send login data if necessary Scrape the page for the data you need ( unless you 're lucky and the site has a JSON or XML API , in which case you can parse that ) Send the appropriate data via the terminal-notify utility This sort of thing may be more common in the future though , as Safari 6 and Mountsin Lion add support for <URL> , which will allow a site to display notifications , when Safari has an open tab for that site . Support for this needs to be coded into the site however , so it 's not really an end user solution I 'm afraid .
Yes . You can . However the Apple Mac OS X operating system has SSH installed by default but the SSH daemon is not enabled . This means you ca n't login remotely or do remote copies until you enable it . To enable it , go to ' System Preferences ' . Under ' Internet &amp; Networking ' there is a ' Sharing ' icon . Run that . In the list that appears , check the ' Remote Login ' option . This starts the SSH daemon immediately and you can remotely login using your username . The ' Sharing ' window shows at the bottom the name and IP address to use . You can also find this out using ' whoami ' and ' ifconfig ' from the Terminal application . An app to connect via ssh to your mac is iTerminal and is available free on the App Store at the following address : <URL> To run the server without Internet will be fine . The DCHP server will still allow access with bonjour and manually inputting the IP address of the mac .
No need to worry - at present , the only MacBook with a physically different keyboard size ( in the US ) than the rest is the 11 inch Air . The small Air has a full sized " main keyboard " but the top row of function keys are slightly smaller than the top row of function keys on the rest of the lineup . I would presume that the same holds for international key layouts when they have different enter keys or additional physical keys , but do n't know that fact for sure . The cover you mentioned will fit the new retina MacBooks - both 13 " and 15 " - as long as the hardware is a US model .
If you 're not hammering the hard drive all the time , say by doing HD video work , then you 're not going to notice . In that case , the 5400 might be better because it is larger , takes less power and is less likely to fail .
As far as I know , the old mac mice used a DE-9 connector , but this is n't RS-232-compatible . If it was , you could have used an <URL> and then a standard <URL> ( both must be active converters ) . If you get an ADB-mouse you will be able to use them as there are <URL> for these . If you 're into electronics and programming , you could build your own converter eg . using a <URL> for few bucks . It should n't be too hard as the old apple mouse just sends <URL> which should easily be translated into pointer movements .
The following AppleScript will <URL> from Contacts.app . It was written for OS X 10.9 but should work on older editions ; you may need to change to to talk to the appropriate application : To use this AppleScript : Launch AppleScript Editor from Applications > Utilities Copy and paste the code below into a new document Run the script On completion a will appear on your desktop Export Contacts to CSV AppleScript
My girlfriend dropped her iPhone 4 in a glass of coke ( it submerged completely ) . Afterwards , she experienced the same symptoms as you . To fix it , she put the phone in a bowl of rice , and took a blow dryer to it once or twice a day . I believe she also got some electrical contact cleaner and cleaned the connection on the bottom that you plug the USB cable into . It took about a week , but the phone worked perfectly afterwards ( and has been working perfectly ever since ) .
Yes - Macs have internet sharing where you can use one device to get internet and share it from another . Most people in a cabin situation set up an AirPort to let all the devices talk and then you would share from the USB to the physical ethernet port . The router would get to the internet from the ethernet and everyone can join the WiFi and share whether or not the USB modem is dialed . You would set the service order to have the USB modem be the highest connection in the network pane . What you ask is also possible - just share from USB to WiFi and the Mac will create a wireless network the other devices can join .
I would go for USB-C to DisplayPort directly . That would be one relatively inexpensive ( $ 20 to $ 40 US prices ) cable to do the job . Since your display wo n't charge the MacBook and do video over a single USB-C cable and you have several ports ( display side and Mac side ) - a dedicated cable would be my choice . I like the USB-C to HDMI adapter you mentioned for my MacBook since there is only one port and charging plus USB is needed , but on the MacBook Pro you have several ports and can use one per display without too much hassle . It will work for you , though - just not my first choice . Apple even recommends against using the adapter you mention for bridging between a Mini DisplayPort device and thunderbolt 3 . - <URL> Note that although it uses a Mini DisplayPort connector , the Thunderbolt 3 ( USB-C ) to Thunderbolt 2 Adapter does n't support connections to Mini DisplayPort displays . If you only want two external displays , both 13 inch models of MacBook Pro are suitable . You 'll need the 15 inch models to support 4 displays . That might be a non-issue if you only have one Dell display to connect .
You can connect it to iTunes and disable voiceover or you can learn if you are using voiceover correctly . VoiceOver is not at all intuitive at first go and really optimized for people that learn how to use it . This learning is an effort unlike the normal iOS interface that toddlers can get with no real training needed . I would say learning VoiceOver is like learning to ride a bike - not hard , but easier if you have someone guiding you or you practice on soft ground while learning and falling . Tips on using VoiceOver The touch interface is totally different in VoiceOver . First you have to tap once to select the number , then you double tap anywhere on the screen to select the spoken element . If your password was 1228 , you would : tap once on 1 , then double tap anywhere on the screen to enter 1 tap once on 2 , then double tap twice anywhere on the screen to enter 2 twice tap once on 8 , then double tap anywhere in the screen to enter 8 Tips on disabling VoiceOver from iTunes In iTunes you select summary and click Universal Access , then choose either Zoom or Neither rather than VoiceOver .
From EveryMac ... This model supports a simultaneous maximum resolution up to 2560x1600 on two external displays via Thunderbolt . Alternately , it can support a single display up to 2560x1600 via Thunderbolt and a single 1080p display at up to 60 Hz , 3840x2160 at 30 Hz , or 4096x2160 at 24 Hz via HDMI . If you have 2 Thunderbolt ports , you can use 2 miniDP to Display Port cables , one from each port , just as though the ports were miniDP as they are backwardly-compatible . See <URL>
There are applications that do this if you have jailbroken your iPhone . Without jailbreaking however there is n't a way to block a single or specific incoming number . I 've known people that have requested their provider to block a certain number and without a very good ( usually legal ) reason , they wo n't do it . The best thing you can do is record 30 seconds of silence in garage band and then use that as a ringtone for that specific number . Then at least the phone wo n't alert you .
The reason why the Mac awakes is because the USB device is drawing power from the Mac 's USB port . When you disconnect it , there 's a change in the voltage and the Mac awakes ( same goes when you plug one ) . Curiously , there 's a way to do it in Windows . According to the guys at <URL> . At least not that we 've discovered yet .
Since Voice Memos both plays and records audio , and recording ca n't be done in the background as far as I know , then the whole app does not work in the background . That sounds more like a design decision to me , rather than a technical limitation . In theory , Apple could have made the playing audio part of Voice Memos to work in the background . A very long-winded way to get to do what you need is to import the voice memos to your iTunes library . In iTunes , select your iPhone from the Devices list . One of the tabs ( probably Music or Info ) has a checkbox that will enable transferring voice memos into iTunes . When this is enabled and you sync your device , the voice memos get imported and a playlist titled " Voice Memos " is created . At this point , those audio files and the " Voice Memos " playlist should act like any other . You could , for instance , get to the audio files from the " Voice Memos " playlist and then set the metadata for each file by right-clicking it and selecting the Get Info dialog . Useful voice memos can be set to a Media Type of Audiobook -- which makes them available to you as audiobooks in the iPod app . If you make them Audiobooks or basically do anything that sends them to the iPod app ; then you could play them in the background while you open your note-taking app of choice . You do not need to set them as audiobooks , though . Once they 're in the voice memos playlist ; then you can sync the playlist as you would any other . The caveat is that without metadata , it becomes hard to find the files in the iPod app . In iTunes , for instance , they show either with a blank artist name or with an artist name of " Untitled " . That is why I strongly suggest adding metadata ASAP . I am just reminded of Dragon Naturally Speaking and Dragon Dictate . I do not have them , but I have heard nothing but great things about them . You may try their apps ( one of them is free , I believe ) . They may offer you better features over the included Voice Memos app . I 've seen screenshots where it looks like in addition to having a record option , the UI also has a text field for you to type on . Hope this helps .
end question
start question
Does macOS Sierra run Xcode 7.x ?
Submitting apps built with beta versions of an OS or beta versions of Xcode are not officially supported , but you can <URL> by changing the OS version prior to archiving the app inside Xcode .
Yes it works . I have macOS Sierra with Xcode 7.3.1 . Tested : Simulators Debug on device Validate/Upload to store CocoaPods
There 's no generic OS X place for storing product keys . It is up to each individual software supplier to decide where they want to store the products . Usually it is done in ordinary files stored in the file system . For Microsoft they reside in under a name such as com.microsoft.office.licensing.plist . Similarly for Adobe I think they are in As a user you do n't really need to know where it is stored as the programs handle product key management themselves .
That 's not possible as far as I know . There are n't any real " hooks " into Time Machine . However , you can do something nearly as good : you can disable the automatic backups that Time Machine does and run it manually instead : Note this bit from <URL> The -- auto option provides a supported mechanism with which to trigger " automatic-like " backups , similar to automatic backups that are scheduled by the system . While this is not identical to true system-scheduled backups , it provides custom schedulers the ability to achieve some ( but not all ) behavior normally exhibited when operating in automatic mode . It is not clear to me what the difference is , but it 's worth noting that one exists .
When you are using Windows and you open an application like MS Word or Adobe Photoshop , it will open up the application window with some sort of empty background . When you do this on a Mac however , there is no background , there is simply the menu options in the very top bar . So say you had a file open in Photoshop in Windows and you closed that file , you would see the same blank application window that you saw when you started up Photoshop . On a Mac , you will see the menu in the top bar , but again , since there is no background you simply see the desktop . So really , there is no difference in the way that Windows and Mac OS X handle the applications , other than one had a visible window and the other does n't . The benefit of doing it the OS X way : If you DO plan on keeping the application open , it keeps you from having to minimize the app like you would in windows . All you have to do it click on something else in the background and it will make the applciation lose focus . To close it , simply right click on the application icon in the dock and choose ' Quit ' .
I was able to resolve the issue . I inspected the logs and noticed the PyDev plugin was searching for a Python 2.5 interpreter ( which had been installed on previous OS X installations ) . After I removed the Python 2.5 interpreter from PyDev 's list of configured interpreters , the issue vanished .
You need to install XCode 4.1 from the app store , which will replace XCode 4.0 with 4.1 . When updating XCode to 4.1 you will get a message to quit iTunes to continue the installation . The installation is actually waiting for iTunesHelper process to be terminated . You can terminate the iTunesHelper process using activity monitor . On my Mac the upgrade to XCode 4.1 failed . So I needed to uninstall XCode 4.0 first .
Download xcode_3 .2.6 _ and_ios_sdk_4 .3 . dmg ( note - you need a developer account to access this software . I have instead linked to an open-to-the-public <URL> Mount the . dmg file Inside the disk image there is an invisible " Packages " folder . To open it select " Go to folder ... " command from Finder menu bar and digit the path " / Volumes/Xcode and iOS SDK/Packages / " Now double-click " iPhoneSimulatorSDK4_2 . pkg " Click into the destination disk and a button " Select folder ... " will be revealed Click the above button and select your " Developer " folder Install the package , and Restart Xcode . This will install the Simulator 4.2 SDK ( both iPad and iPhone ) inside the folder " / Developer/Platforms/iPhoneSimulator . platform/Developer/SDKs / " Now inside XCode 4.2 you can select this simulator from the menu . Bye .
If you 're looking for hackerish screensavers , the old Xscreensaver bundle was converted to OSX a while ago . Nicely hacker type examples would be Sonar , AppleII , and Phosphor . Possible GLMatrix too . However , to answer your question : <URL> Write an applescript to run Terminal , run Top , and fullscreen itself . Then put that script into the app .
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
You ca n't upgrade a beta device to the final GM release . You need to restore the device with final public iOS 5 release .
Have you tried using <URL> ? Plug in your phone . Select it from Devices . Select the photos , hit the little " no " icon ( the circle with the line through it ) near the bottom of the window , and delete the photo . Also good to delete photos you do n't even want in photos .
This looks like a good option . Gives access to PC or Mac via iPad and plays audio/video . <URL> Update : I tried it and the sound works great in Windows 7 ( and I suspect Visa ) and above . The sound will work on Windows XP as well but , IIRC , you get sound thru the app AND through the PC , which means that if the PC is nearby ( the case in my scenario ) you get double audio . Windows 7 allows the app to disable the local sound ( so you 'd only get the sound thru the app and NOT through Windows ) . I have NOT found a solution that allows RECORDING audio through the ipad to the PC .
Yes . The keys in Visual Studio 2010 that you refer to ( for others that are unaware ) are known as " Navigate Backward " and " Navigate Forward " and work as described in the the following <URL> allowing you to quickly move back and forward between places you 've already been in your code , via a " Jump to Definiton " in Xcode , for example . The equivalent keyboard shortcuts in Xcode 4 are : Navigate Backward : Ctrl + ⌘ + Left Cursor Navigate Forward : Ctrl + ⌘ + Right Cursor
No , System 1.0 is not open source and not in the public domain . Apple provided it with the purchase of a Macintosh . The system software was not available for separate purchase . History With MacOS 1.0 you are probably referring to the first version of Apple 's operating system . In 1984 , with the release of the first Macintosh ( 128K ) , the system was actually not called MacOS but was just Mac System Software . Apple has called it MacOS since version 7.6 . You can read ( and learn ) a lot about it <URL> . Emulation About an emulator of the first Mac system . There is one you can use : <URL> It will require <URL> to run vMac and finally <URL> Unzip everything , start the mini vMac , it will load the ROM and you 'll get a blinking floppy with a question mark because it could n't find the system . To solve it just drag the system image over vMac and the system will start !
Whenever we install newer version of xcode , it ask " Do you want to replace the last version or to keep both " , than we need to choose the Both Version option . It will keep both .
According to <URL> and <URL> the iPhone 4 is somewhat slower than the iPad , but still significantly faster than the iPhone 3GS . I guess that its A4 CPU is clocked at about 750 - 850 MHz .
It uses both Bluetooth LE 4.0 AND 802.11 ac WiFi . Bluetooth is used to discover the Apple Watch and establish a connection . Then it uses WiFi to do " time-in-flight " calculations - i.e. to figure out how far your watch is from the Mac . The Mac needs to support 802.11 ac WiFi for this to work . All watches are supported , both the old and the new - even though the old ones does not support 802.11 ac . This way it is possible to prevent attacks such as someone planting a " bluetooth repeater " near you , so that it could replay your bluetooth responses captured this way to a Mac located somewhere remotely .
Mac OS X does n't store passwords for the command-line ssh client . It can however remember the password to your private key in the Keychain if you are authenticating via keys .
I did it . ( Apple Developer ) . I have a second computer that I use for all beta testing , running OS X 10.6 . I used the app store on that computer to download the Lion Beta Installer . It downloads and installs just like any other app . You then run the Lion Beta Installer app and it reboots and installs Lion as if it came off a CD . After another reboot , you are running Lion , with all your apps and settings working just fine . Hope this does not defy the NDA .
end question
start question
How can I change a filetype 's " Kind " value in the Finder ?
→ → : Modifying files inside application bundles invalidates the code signature and changes are n't necessarily respected by updates .
I am unsure if you are asking how to exclude folders from showing up in your finder spotlight search , or if what you are after is to hide specific folders from being shown in a finder window . If you are after excluding folders from a spotlight search , you can do this in the privacy tab from system preferences / spotlight : If you are after having the ability to show or hide files and folders from being viewed while you are in a finder window , then you can create an automator service to do just that : <URL> NOTE : the tip above only toggles all files that have the hidden flag set , so if you need to quickly mark a folder or a file as " hidden " , then you need to set this bit attribute for that file or folder . An easy way to do this is via a free utility software download that does just this here ( used to be shareware , but now free ) : <URL> NOTE 2 : If you are happy using the terminal command line , you can just type the following on the terminal : or Hope this helps .
In column view in the Finder , you can resize columns by positioning the mouse pointer over over the thin line that separates column panes , and dragging it to the left to make it narrower or to the right to make it wider . To make the Finder remember the new width , <URL> while dragging the pane separator to the desired width . The <URL> alludes to the fact that holding down option resizes " all columns at once " but does not explicitly say that this makes the change persistent .
The feed URL can only be edited if Google Reader sync is off . Select the feed in the left column and press ⌘ I to bring up the feed info window . Click on the triangle next to the URLs entry and you will get a text box that will allow you to edit the feed URL . There are a bunch of other setting there that allow you to do things like specify how often a particular feed is updated , how long articles are kept , etc. .
Open the file in Preview Now Click on Edit In Edit menu bar click on the last icon looks like a square with line from corner to corner . In the new window you can adjust the size and the resolution .
<URL> is a good , inexpensive search utility that does not use Spotlight and will enable you to perform these kinds of searches .
Per my answer on a related question ( <URL> ) , there are only two order states with Mission Control . Order generated as Desktop/Full Screen spaces are created , or the default ; " Automatically rearranged based on recent use " which I admit that I have no entirely narrowed down exactly when it changes them . As of this writing , in OS X Lion 10.7.1 , there is no way to explicitly order spaces except to remove and re-add them in an order you would prefer , after unchecking the checkbox listed in the screenshot above .
Yes , there is way . And since you 're already jailbroken , it 'll be so much easier . Just open up Cydia and search for <URL> . It 's from the ModMyi repository , which comes preconfigured with Cydia . It allows you to select the DNS server to go through when using a cellular data network , and it does it right from the Settings app .
Go to Finder → Preferences → Tags . You can rename/delete tags by right-clicking and modify the coloured tags with the control at the bottom .
A partial-workaround is suggested on <URL> : There is a workaround that solved the problem for me . The iPhone assigns calendar colours in this order : red , orange , blue , green , purple ( then repeats that cycle ) . So the first step is to switch off Exchange syncing for Calendars in the iPhone settings then go into the m.google.com/sync web app and just enable one of your calendars . Then re-enable Exchange syncing . Now you 'd think it would colour that first one red and it may do in your case but for me it coloured the first calendar orange , possibly because I had some other local calendars already on the iPhone . If it colours your chosen calendar with a colour you were not expecting , just start again ( disable Exchange/change sync settings and re-enable ) and take whatever colour it chose as the starting point in that cycle above . Once you 've got the first calendar/colour combination working as you like , go back into m.google.com/sync and select the calendar you want to go with the next colour in the cycle . Wait a few minutes . Check that it 's showing up as expected in the calendar app . And then go back to m.google.com/sync and repeat . If you take this one calendar at a time approach , you can assign colours as you want them , except of course you will face problems if you have say three green calendars and no purple ones ...
Here is an example ( quick scribble ) of how to get and process the labels . Set theNumber to your own number . AND I WOULD BACKUP THE ADDRESSBOOK BEFORE YOU START PLAYING WITH IT . Update . I have change the script to chaco if the phone number starts with rather than contains . ' label ' = an items label . i.e ' mobile ' , ' iphone ' , ' home page ' Phones = the phone numbers of a person/contact 's entry people = plural for more than one person/contact . value = the value of an item in a person/contact entry - in this case the phone number In the set command the code between the brackets ( ) is run first . Meaning the reference to phone number 's label in whole of the address book that starts with theNumber is gathered in a list . Then the surrounding code tells each reference to change to test .
To access any folder in Finder , press Cmd + Shift + G and enter the directory you want to access .
I figured this out : I had a problem that my font got changed size 11 , and changing back to 13 did n't fix the default - the next email would go back to 11 The solution is this : Type some text and highlight it . But instead of changing the font in the pulldown above the editing window ( which wo n't change the default ) , so this instead : With the text selected , in the top menu select Format > Font > Bigger or Smaller , till it get the size you want . ( You can also do this by hitting Command + or Command - . ) Oddly , that fixes the default , while using the normal size toggle does n't .
You can easily check the model of the device using information found in Settings > General > About and a simple Google search . . Open the Settings app and select General . From the General * pane select * About . Scroll down in the About pane until you find the Model . Type the model number into a Google search box . That should be sufficient , but you can add additional search terms like Apple or iPod Touch if need be .
Sorry , Apple does n't allow people to change the mouse cursor anymore .
Assuming you have a normal Numbers Date/Time , then a simple statement can be used combined with the function . To add more than just 2 options , nest your statement . Numbers will return the first TRUE value . <URL>
Carefully move the pointer to the left side of the finder window border till the cursor changes to arrow pointing to the right . ↦ Hold and Drag to the right . If that did not work you need to restore the finders preferences . In terminal run and Restart .
First you select the folder where your custom background images are in the left section , then you just select and choose in the dropdown .
Not so far . You can do decide whether to turn on the sound or not for particular app ( if it enables user to turn off the notification sound ) . But you can not change the notification sound globally or per-app ( not at least in iOS 5 ) .
Highlight the result in Spotlight , then press ⌘ ↩ . This will open the containing folder in Finder . Alfred will also let you do this , with a bit more customisation :
end question
start question
How can I use Regular Expressions in Spotlight on Mountain Lion ?
Apple 's tools for accessing the Spotlight index ( Spotlight itself and the command ) do n't offer any regex options , nor do I know of any 3rd party tools that offer that ( I 'm not actually sure Apple has APIs that would make that possible ) . However the command does offer a much more powerful interface than the GUI Spotlight search . It offers proper binary operators and finer grained control over what metadata you search . Check out <URL> for some good information , as well as the <URL> .
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
See screenshot . Change the radio button for to . To access this screen , go to .
The option has been removed from the GUI in OS X 10.7 however you can enable it with a few commands . Here is a good write up on how to do it . <URL> Summary of the link above : To Load : Then to start and stop you would run the following : To Unload :
No , you ca n't use Google Sync through Mail.app in Mountain Lion . Google 's exchange server m.google.com is not a fully implemented exchange server . It just implements the ActiveSync protocol which seems to be a subset of the exchange protocol for mobile devices . See also this information on Google Sync : <URL>
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
As mentioned in your linked article , the default place for all included importers has been System > Library > Spotlight since 10.4 and it 's still there in ML , including RichText.mdimporter .
Though not directly answering your question this line will give you the time in seconds since the last user interaction which comes from what OS X considers to be an idle user . ( independently of screen-savers or black displays . )
From one of the <URL> , one user found a tool that could handle batch conversions of Claris Works documents : Panergy Software had just the right tool for me . It 's called Doc X Converter . I have n't used it yet , but I emailed with their tech support and I understand that it will batch convert Apple Works and Claris Works files to . rtf files , which , of course , will open fine with any version of Word . ( They no longer sell One Click Convert . ) However , it 'll only convert the word processor files . The <URL> has a link to a <URL> , which states : The cwk file extension is the extension associated with an Office program originally called ClarisWorks and later renamed AppleWorks . This Office program is composed of several modules , word processor , spreadsheet , drawing , painting , presentation and database . The cwk extension is used for all the files regardless of the module that has created them and is also used in both version 5 or version 6 of this program . docXConverter open and converts the cwk word processing files of version 5 or version 6 . So long as the ClarisWorks documents are version 5 or 6 and are word processing documents , this tool should provide the functionality that you 're looking for . Caveat : I 've never used docXConverter before , but the product description looks promising .
It 's a boring answer , but it looks like Afloat has been updated to support Lion : <URL>
Apparently both Keychain 's files are in the same place in Both OS versions <URL> <URL> . . Copying all the folder 's content from one to another should do the trick .
Developers registered with Apple 's <URL> can <URL> of Mac OS X for development and testing purposes . The screenshot below shows OS X Mountain Lion is still available to developers .
Ok ... i did some digging around ... and struck gold . The digging part is not for the " faint of heart " since the Terminal is your best friend and some coding knowledge is involved . Suffice to say my trip in Wiki Server 4 land led me through Ruby on Rails code . I was surprised to find that i 'm able to read ruby code , and i do n't know Ruby at all . After looking through Model Views and Controllers i figured out the solution was simpler than i anticipated . To modify the title on the first page you need to edit a . strings file . You need to use the download version ( not the mac app store app ) of TextWrangler or some other editor that allows Authenticated Saves ( save files as other users ) . Make sure the Wiki service is off ... the slider in the server app is off . The location of the file depends on your language locale that you use : / Applications/Server . app/Contents/ServerRoot / usr/share/collabd / coreclient/locales/en . lproj where " en " can be either de , es , fr , it , ja , ko , nl , zh_CN , zh_TW depending on your wiki language . First ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " to " Read and Write " . Open the file in TextWrangler and find the key general.os _ x_server and under it you can modify the string " OS X Server " to anything you want " My own company Wiki " . Save ( ) the file . Second ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " back to just " Read " . Move ( ) the slider in the Server App to On again for the wiki . Enjoy !!!
Unfortunately , no - Safari uses quite a few system-level frameworks that are vastly different between those OSes .
Mountain Lion does n't ship with any GCC , but you can install GCC 4.7 . I have done this on my machine .
I searched everywhere for a clean solution . Many solutions that worked for Lion and below no longer worked for Mountain Lion . However , this works and it took me hours to find . Enjoy ! <URL> From the website : In a search for a non-hacky way to disable direct mappings to iTunes for the play/pause/next / previous buttons in the keyboard in OSX , I stumbled across the " Remote control daemon " ( rcd ) . As it turns out , disabling the iTunes launch behavior for these keys is as easy as unloading rcd with the following command :
As far as the license says , no . You have the right to : So , as far as the license goes , you must already be running Mountain Lion in order to virtualize it .
Apple decided not to include X11 in Mountain Lion : <URL> But there is now a native version of GIMP for mountain lion which requires no X11 : <URL> However , if you need to run the old version of GIMP you can download <URL> as mentioned in the apple support document linked above . When you try to run GIMP again , you can find Xquartz in Enjoy GIMP !
It sounds like you 're a developer . You should install Mac Ports . It 's REALLY helpful and useful to have . You can use it to get command line tools such as autoconf . It 's always useful to have if you work with command line a lot . Just install the . pkg from <URL> to install MacPorts . After so , in terminal , run : More info : <URL>
Probably not . The system requirements for 10.8 say " MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) " . You 'd also need to install 10.6.8 or 10.7 first in order to install Mountain Lion from App Store . See these Apple KB articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> EveryMac.com has a list of maximum OS X versions supported by different Macs : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How can I burn a slideshow to a DVD in its present form in iPhoto 2011 ?
Have you tried exporting the slideshow without the audio , then re-adding the audio manually in iMovie ? This way , you can make sure they both end at the same time by cutting the audio out early . Then , you can burn that to DVD .
To your questions : Is it possible to upgrade the SSD at all ? I have heard rumours that they are soldered in after 2010 , and are not replaceable . Yes , it should be possible , <URL> have done it . This video ( How to Upgrade/Replace the Hard Drive in the 2011 15 " MacBook Pro ) shows the procedure ( just for information , I understand you do n't want to void your AppleCare warranty ) : <URL> . My city and country ( Tallinn , Estonia ) has no official Apple stores that I know of , but does have Apple-authorised resellers . Are they the appropriate place to get this done ? Yes , I 'd definitely go to an Apple authorized reseller . I could find Premium resellers in Tallinn ( see <URL> ) : You can select another country/language from <URL> ( though I used the trick explained here <URL> ) .
I believe that you 'll need to download Darwiin Remote form here : <URL> . This software will allow communication between the Wii Remote and your computer . I have n't played with this for a long time , but I believe that when I did this app allows the Wii Remote to act as your mouse and provide direct interaction with the system ( I used a candle to provide the required infrared source for tracking ) .
Seems like the problem only was that I had managed to sort the events " manually " ( View > Sort Events > Manually ) which hid the newly created events in-between my rather large amount of existing events . Sorting by date ( View > Sort Events > By Date + Descending ) shows my new events first in the list as they should .
<URL> <URL> There are also some free alternatives , most notable : <URL> and <URL> .
It looks like <URL> supports checksumming , even if the Disk Utility GUI might not : ( The supported types of checksums are listed in the man page . A common one seems to be . If you use or the checksums will be calculated separately per partition . ) Or you could always simply use the command :
I think you can just right-click the file and select " Put Back "
While I never tried it myself , in theory you could use something like <URL> to open the app 's private folder and copy all the content to your computer . Then , after deleting and reinstalling the app , you should be able to copy the content back .
For that particular case you could select the table and then open the inspector where in the " Object Placement " check the " Inline " and further down in the same preference " Object causes wrap " should be greyed . Select the rightest case where you get adjustment to the right . Now go back to your table and drag the edge from the left side to suit your text indent .
Navigate to ( e.g. use & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G. ) Then , in list view hold & #x 2325 ; while clicking the triangle . This will show all subdirectories of a certain folder . By default , you 'll do n't see hidden files/directories . To show hidden files type the following commands in the : You can use the value in the command to unto this action .
My presumption is that when you burned the DVD using iMovie - it was encoded within a VIDEO_TS folder and you will need some software to move the video and sound files ( which are hidden and obscured on the filesystem ) back into a format that can be played on your Mac and/or burned back to a fresh optical drive . Depending on the version of software that wrote the DVD to disc , you might be able to locate the raw video files ( or find them on a backup ) . Barring that , using Disk Utility to simply clone the volume onto a new drive is n't a good choice , but I 've had great luck with programs like the little app factory 's <URL> .
Deeper discharge/charge cycles shorten an Li-Ion battery 's lifespan faster that shallow ones . ( e.g. . One 100 % cycle is more wearing that four 25 % cycles , etc. ) Therefore , keeping an iPad or iPhone on a charger or always topped off between short uses will tend to lengthen the battery 's total lifespan by reducing the number of deeper cycles per annum , all other thing being equal ( such as total time of use ) . " Calibrating " has almost nothing to do with the battery lifespan . It 's mostly needed to help the battery gauge icon behave more accurately . Once or twice a year is probably good enough for that purpose .
Here 's your solution . From the Review tab , under Tracking , select the Show Markup drop down and uncheck everything but comments .
It appears Spotlight does not make use of <URL> . Extra menu items added by Skype also fail to appear in the Spotlight preview . It is worth providing <URL> asking for this functionality to be added . It would greatly improve Spotlight . Context Menu in Contacts.app : Context Menu of Contact in Spotlight :
No , there is no way to sort on size in iPhoto . From your context I guess you mean filesize . In iPhoto , size means the dimensions on the Photo ( length by breadth , measured in pixels ) - see the Export dialogue , for instance . iPhoto is all about the images and not the files that contain them , so I 'm not surprised . It 's a $ 15 app , you get a lot , but not everything .
<URL> does trigger an alert in Safari when a popup is locked . And it also improves the effectiveness of Safari 's blocking . But - the alert behaviour does not work in Lion ! Snow Leopard only . If the dev updates it for Lion it should do what you request .
If you copy the CD to a disk image on the PC , you can put the image on a USB stick and transfer it to your Air . I am not sure how to do this on Window , but I 'm sure you can find out how to do this somewhere . <URL> looks like it should do what you want . Also look at <URL>
According to ISO/IEC INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 10149 ( Second edition 1995-07-15 ) , which is the basis for the " 1x " speed , the linear velocity at whatever point on the disc is being read needs to be between 1.2 and 1.4 meters per second . That would translate into a different RPMs at different parts of the disc . A back of the envelope calculation suggests that the fastest a drive in a modern MacBook Pro would spin the disc would be during 24x read at the center of the disc ; that would be around 12,000 revolutions per minute . The full text of the standard is downloadable for free at <URL>
As has been said in the other answer , you are restricted to a single external display with the built-in hardware . You can however add extra external displays using USB based display adapters . For example I use one of the <URL> . Some of the DisplayLink adapters can do 2048x1152 . There will be a limit to how many USB adapters make sense , before you start saturating the USB bus . But it should be fine for a couple of extra displays . USB based adapters are n't well suited to 3D gaming and full screen video , but should be fine for what you want .
It is stored in the user 's Saved Application State folder , located at :
end question
start question
Is it possible to use iOS7 's AirDrop with the Mac AirDrop ?
Not Yet , I have tested it and TechHive <URL> . Though Mavericks may bring this functionality ( complete speculation obviously ) .
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
I believe that airdrop transfers directly into your downloads folder . Should anything happen to interrupt the transfer , you will likely end up with a file called " transferred_file.txt . download " , the file is renamed to remove the . download upon completion . If you have any . download files sitting there and not changing in size , they are failed downloads and can potentially be restarted ( if they originated from Safari ) , or removed . You can test this by transferring a new large file , and watching the file get created , increase in size , then get renamed .
Mac OS X Server is designed for remote " headless " administration and even initial setup . Server Admin included with the <URL> provides a GUI interface for server administration tasks as well as the ability to screen share the server desktop remotely . Apple provides a guide : <URL> .
Yes . You can make it so you do n't see the dock by adding a very long delay to the animation so that in practice , you never leave the mouse on the " expose the dock " target long enough to see it . This is technically a " workaround " since the dock is still there , just slower to appear than we care about on our timescale . Two steps are needed to set this up . One , activate auto-hide in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Dock & #x 2192 ; Autohide or type & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + D Two , open the Terminal an type : You 're set up now . In this example , it takes 100 seconds for the dock to appear . Make the timer even longer if you like , this long delay eventually helps you to forget that the dock is even there . Reset to default behavior by typing :
You need 10.6 Server . It does not help to change the settings to 10.6 Server , you have to use 10.6 Server as operating system on the USB-Stick ... or you can try some hacks , e.g. Hackintosh ( search for it in Google ) in a virtual environment but that 's a little bit more complicated you can check <URL> for this .
I believe that I have the same tablet . I gave it to my niece whose computer was running 10.10.x . I believe that I simply browsed for the most current legacy driver that they was made for it here : <URL> If that does n't work , I would try the next model of tablet after the one you have and its most current driver and keep moving to newer ones util it works . I was able to get it working without issue . I 'll check which driver I ended up using the next time is visit .
Using <URL> on the Mac host machine , use a application specific rule for the VirtualBox VM to map the swipe gesture to keyboard shortcuts to change desktops . To tie the rule to the VM and not the prefs app , issue , to create an alias to the VM 's app bundle on the desktop . Next , make the rule and set the app as the alias on the desktop . Finally delete the alias on the desktop and try it out .
FileMerge 2.8 , which ships with Xcode 5.0.1 links to frameworks that are located inside of the Xcode.app bundle . Shared libraries that are used by FileMerge can be displayed by performing the command : The output of this command indicates that FileMerge needs to use the DevToolsInterface , DevToolsCore , and DevToolsFoundation frameworks . : The prefix indicates that <URL> to search for frameworks that are being referenced . Specifically , FileMerge contains in its run path list . When located inside of the Xcode.app bundle , those frameworks are right where FileMerge expects them to be . However , if you copy FileMerge out of the Xcode.app bundle , FileMerge will crash upon launch . This occurs because the referenced frameworks ( referenced above ) are not in the run path list , which causes to exit with an error of . The reason it can not find those referenced frameworks is that a folder at the relative path does not exist , and the frameworks do not exist in any other folders listed in the run path . To use FileMerge without the Xcode app installed , you have a couple of options : Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to one of the folders referenced in the run path list ( or are probably a couple of the best choices ) . Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to be at relative to the FileMerge app ( e.g. , if FileMerge is at , copy the folder to Edit The above answer allows FileMerge to launch , but the application will terminate when you actually attempt to compare files . Apparently the application is looking for platform information at the path . This means that it is necessary to copy from to ( relative to FileMerge.app ) . Here are some steps that could be used to copy FileMerge to a folder at :
My understanding is that this is due to the fact that the slide transition takes a certain amount of time - the 15 seconds is the total time the slide is undistrubed on the screen and it allows a certain amount of time for the changover - the way to check this is to set the timing to ' 0 ' and see what happens :)
AirDrop uses Bluetooth to create a peer-to-peer Wi-Fi network between the devices . Each device creates a firewall around the connection and files are sent encrypted , which actually makes it safer than transferring via email . AirDrop will automatically detect nearby supported devices , and the devices only need to be close enough to establish a good Wi-Fi connection , making it possible to share files across several rooms .
Unfortunately no , but this is something I would also greatly appreciate .
Yes you can . Just changes the shortcut setting in the System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcut . You will find Mission Control section for shortcut , and there is entry called Switch to Desktop . You could define your own shortcut here .
If I 'm reading your description correctly , then the replacement cord has a higher rating ( 60W ) than the 45W that is drawn by the 2011 Macbook Air . This is fine because all it means is that the cord has a thicker gauge to handle a higher wattage ( than what you are are actually using ) . The replacement cord would not affect the voltage , so your adapter would still be delivering what it is specified for , namely the 14.5 V.
When a file gets sent , you 'll be given a popup menu with a list of apps in which to store the file . You have to pick one if you want to keep the file . If you just press Cancel , the file gets deleted .
Turns out I was n't the only person that 's been interested in this . There 's an article on <URL> that states that this is indeed possible , which is good news for me . The person that discovered it wrote : Big question on everyone 's mind buying the Verizon iPad was whether data from AT&amp;T s 3G network would work on this iPad , or if Verizon/Apple would block this . I was one of the first to obtain a Verizon iPad and can happily confirm that this is allowed ! I used my ATT iPhone 4S sim card and took out the Verizon sim , and data worked ! You must apply the AT&amp;T APN carrier settings before this works though . BTW APN carrier settings can be changed here : <URL> edit : I just tested this and it works . Changed the APN , put my iPhone SIM in , and it worked .
At one time or another I have deleted a whole bunch of the standard issue programs that I knew I would n't use . I prefer not to have them wasting my space , however little it may be . Also , I use a Mac Mini as a media centre , changing the standard hdd for an ssd , so space is at a premium . Appcleaner is one app that I have used for several years to tidy stuff up . Never had a single issue with deleting Stickies , Notes , Bootcamp Assistant , Audio Midi Setup , RAID , Podcast , etc , etc. . Appcleaner preferences should be set up to delete " protected " apps and then will delete the app and all the other files ( plists , etc. ) that go with it . Another app , CleanMyMac , does the same , but will also do a more general clearout of caches , etc. . Both recommended ... Good luck !
With airdrop it is always a direct connection ( usually wifi or a mix of wifi + bluetooth ) between the 2 devices . No internet connection is required at all . So you can transfer as much as you like and it will all be local between the devices ; " peer to peer " like you say . Your internet quota wo n't be used at all .
Does n't seem to be possible . Even the limited Help for Grab.app suggests using Preview to convert away from TIFF . I presume you need " Timed Screen Captures " otherwise you would use the keyboard shortcuts ? Note that you can take the grab , then copy the image without saving ( CMD+A , CMD+C ) , then ALT+TAB to Preview.app , then CMD+N , then save . Not very elegant . You could also just deal with Grab.app saving as TIFF , but then set up an Automator action that watches a folder and converts TIFF to whatever you want each time a TIFF shows up in the folder . This ought to be fairly easy and transparent way to use Grab.app and get the file formats of your choice .
<URL> On the menu bar , click Bookmarks and select Show All Bookmarks to open the Library window . From the toolbar on the Library window , click Import and Backup and choose Export Bookmarks to HTML ... In the Export Bookmarks File window that opens , choose a location to save the file , which is named bookmarks.html by default . The desktop is usually a good spot , but any place that is easy to remember will work . Click the Save button . The Export Bookmarks File window will close . Close the Library window . Import the bookmarks.html file into Safari on the Mac by navigating to the File menu within Safari , choosing Import Bookmarks ... , then selecting the file you saved.You may want to delete or archive the existing Safari bookmarks first . You can now sync Safari on the Mac with Safari on your iOS devices . iCloud syncing will make this two-way and happen over the network , but you can also sync using USB and connecting to iTunes if the bookmarks will change rarely .
end question
start question
How can I open a new Finder window on every click on the Finder Icon ?
This behaviour happens beacuse the dock just launches an app . Finder is classified as an app , so it will open/show the app window , you will need to open a new window within the app . You can use the keyboard short cut CMD + N , and if you are not in the app press CMD + Tab to open it first . You could possibly try using <URL> , which makes custom keystrokes , so you could assign O to opening a new finder window
If you have a MacBook Air you can " right-click " by placing two fingers on your trackpad and clicking with one of them . Of course this work when you are using OS X . You can configure this option ( if it is n't already configured ) by going to > > If you are using Windows with Boot Camp instead , you should install the additional driver provided by Apple . They should allow you to right-click in the same way you do it on OS X.
CMD + n opens a new terminal window . CMD + t opens a new terminal tab . If you want to open something other than the default Terminal , use the techniques <URL> to open a pre-defined Terminal setup . You can also do CMD + n , i , Tab to bring up the Inspector , then use up/down arrows , or type the names , which lets you choose a pre-defined Terminal . If you want a setup hard-coded and not yet known to Terminal.app , follow <URL> .
That 's a Finder ( on Lion ) issue and as such , there are no settings to tweak for your problem . A faster way to reach the mount window is to simply click the Finder icon in your Dock .
You can right-click ( control-click ) on the folder name in the Titlebar of the Finder window and select a parent folder and or you can expose the Path Bar in Finder ( View > Show Path Bar ) and select a parent folder from there . Also from the Sidebar you can right-click ( control-click ) on the Favorites name and select Open Enclosing Folder , although this opens another Finder window whereas the previous suggestions stay within the same Finder window . Additionally one should become familiar with the keyboard shortcuts of Finder which one can see shown on each menu in Finder , particularly the Go menu . Like , Command -- Up Arrow as mentioned by Ivan Chau in the OP comments . Note : See Finder shortcuts in : <URL>
Simply put , No . Finder is for file management , therefore such feature will be weird . You might be able to find plugins for this , but I doubt it . Most people use iTunes to achieve such job , which you seems to be reluctant to do . You can try making a separate iTunes library for these files , and not importing them to your new library . That might help .
tl ; dr - It 's safe to delete in whatever way you choose . The only conceivable problem would be if Time Machine was trying to prune a backup at the same time you were deleting , so maybe turn off Time Machine for the duration of your clean up if you 're not using the built in delete button . You can use in Lion to safely delete backups . The benefit of this is the deletion happens more silently in the background . The downside is the UI is n't speedy for deleting more than one snapshot at a time . In practice , you have to be there to attend multiple deletions . Do n't worry about the internals of how files are linked or stored - yes most of the files in most of the backups are hard links , but to clean these up , you have to delete things folder by folder . The system will handle decrementing the link count so there 's no better or worse way to go here . It is also safe to simply remove them via Finder or any other method - just be patient as each backup contains a full set of directory entries for each file . My ( worst ) record is 4 days to delete through finder a batch of unwanted backups . Good advice might be to start small if you ca n't leave your mac on overnight . You wo n't lose any data unless you are deleting the last copy of a version of some file . You do n't get any warnings , it will get deleted - this is the same whether you use Time Machine itself , or Finder or in some terminal script . As a brief aside - Why do you want to do this ? Time Machine automatically prunes old backups when you 're getting low on space . I 've found it very comforting to just clone my Time Machine drive to a cheap USB external drive and put it on the shelf . ( or make this the drive on the shelf and use it as an excuse to get a new drive ) Perhaps it 's the perfect pack-rat-keep-everything verses if-you-don ' t-need-it-now 's - the-time-to-delete-it test for Mac users .
Assign to Space Go to the space you want the app to open in ( in your case the second space ) Right click your application 's dock icon Move your cursor to " Options " Under " Assign to " select " This Desktop " Window position and size control I Googled and found a solution for the resizing issue . <URL> Make your application launch via an Apple Script ! Make a script similar to this : Save it as " Application " Put the saved application in your Launch Items instead of the program itself Additionally you may undock it with <URL> to make this script run silently .
<URL> ( previously known as KeyRemap4MacBook ) Save a file like this as <URL> : Note that the field uses <URL> so , for example , any spaces in the path or filename should be encoded with . Alfred 2 If you have the Powerpack for Alfred 2 , you can create a workflow like this : Hotkeys have a short delay by default , but you can reduce it by changing the trigger behavior : Other applications that support assigning shortcuts to opening applications <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Automator services There has been a bug since 10.7 where the keyboard shortcuts for Automator services do n't always work until you hover over the services menu from the menu bar . There is also a relatively long delay before services are run , and the keyboard shortcuts for services do n't work when the frontmost application does n't have a services menu .
There 's no exact equivalent that I 'm aware of ; I usually rubberband-select a region and then command-click the ones I do n't want . Mouse down at the top left of the area you want to select , drag to the bottom right of the area , release . A rubberband will be highlighted as you drag the mouse ; all icons within the rubberband will be selected . It 's also possible to chain these by holding Shift or Option for the second and successive selections , so you can add additional selections or deselect icons selected previously .
<URL> , a free product by Infinite Labs , will let you resize a window by pressing ⌘ + Control + Right Click . Divvy would also work , but Afloat is a free solution .
Add this to the CFBundleDocumentTypes array in : Change the default application back to Safari in Finder If the application is signed , modifying an Info.plist <URL> . It also makes a few applications like TextEdit and WriteRoom crash on launch on 10.8 .
I am 99 % sure that Finder can not change tags . Check <URL> for free ID3 editors .
It will still take 30 clicks , one for each link , but ... Remember that Cmd ⌘ on Mac is usually equivalent to Ctrl ⌃ on Windows . Cmd ⌘ Click will open a link in a new a tab behind the current one , if you click a link . Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ Click will open the new tab &amp; bring it to the front . These are the default settings [ iirc ] but they can be changed in Prefs ... Edit : Sorry , I only just realised you said Chrome . It does follow the same behaviour , though I ca n't find anywhere to actually change it .
Navigate to ( e.g. use & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G. ) Then , in list view hold & #x 2325 ; while clicking the triangle . This will show all subdirectories of a certain folder . By default , you 'll do n't see hidden files/directories . To show hidden files type the following commands in the : You can use the value in the command to unto this action .
Shift + Command + H takes you to your home folder Command + UpArrow takes you one folder up Have a look at the " Go To " menu in Finder for additional key combinations . Some people like to use the ~ character and the Go to Folder ... shortcut as that expands to the current user 's home folder like on other UNIX operating systems . You may also want to have a look at <URL> which contains a huge list of OS X Lion keyboard shortcuts .
You can do this in the terminal ( shell ) . Open the terminal and type to change you current working directory to the Desktop . Then for the different cases you listed : is the command to move files . You can move multiple files at once : . The asterisk * is the so-called wild card character . So * stands for every character or character sequence . would mean that it would affect all files that end with . You could also do it other way around , e.g. , to affect all files that start with . If you want , you can copy the following lines into an empty text file and save it as and add to the first line . Make it executable by typing . Then , you can use it every time you want to move your files from your desktop by typing in the shell from your desktop . So the suggested script contents would could look like this : As mentioned in the comments , you can save it as and use to make it clickable and executable
yes use the action " Ask for Folder Contents " ( i hope its called like that on an English OS - I 'm currently on a German one there it is called " Ordnerinhalt abfragen " ) , there you can say if you also wan na use subfolders or not . I added a demo workflow for you . <URL>
I am unsure if you are asking how to exclude folders from showing up in your finder spotlight search , or if what you are after is to hide specific folders from being shown in a finder window . If you are after excluding folders from a spotlight search , you can do this in the privacy tab from system preferences / spotlight : If you are after having the ability to show or hide files and folders from being viewed while you are in a finder window , then you can create an automator service to do just that : <URL> NOTE : the tip above only toggles all files that have the hidden flag set , so if you need to quickly mark a folder or a file as " hidden " , then you need to set this bit attribute for that file or folder . An easy way to do this is via a free utility software download that does just this here ( used to be shareware , but now free ) : <URL> NOTE 2 : If you are happy using the terminal command line , you can just type the following on the terminal : or Hope this helps .
This should do it : <URL> Quote : Using Property List Editor If you are using Property List Editor , start by going to your user folder and then navigate to Library/Preferences . In the Preferences folder find the file named " com.apple.finder.plist . " Double-clicking on this file should open it up in Property List Editor . If not , just right-click on it and choose " Open With - Property List Editor . " Once the file is open , scroll down the list to " SearchViewSettings . " Click the disclosure triangle next to it , and then do the same for " ListViewSettings " and then " columns . " Now you should see a list of all the available columns . Click the triangle next to the column you want to add , i.e. size , and then check the box next to " visible . " Once you are done , save the file by pressing Command-S . Finally , you will need to restart the Finder for the changes to take effect . The easiest way to do this is top hold down the Control and Option keys , click on the Finder icon in the Dock and choose " Relaunch . " Now just press Command-F to bring up a search window and you should have your extra columns enabled .
end question
start question
What is the md5/sha1 checksum for Xcode 3.2.6 and iOS 4.3 SDK final ?
I believe that opening a . DMG file automatically verifies it . Basically , it contains a checksum in the file ( or are you worried about malicious packages , rather then just corruption ? ) . Anyways , when I open a . dmg file , I see the message box with a progress bar say " Verifying " for a while , before it actually mounts . Asmus added in a comment above : " you can use on the command line to compare an image against its internal checksum . "
The Basics : <URL> Time Machine is Apple 's backup solution , included in OS X . An external drive is required . It backs up changed files every hour , and stores as many " snapshots " as it can hold . After the initial full backup , it only stores changes to files , which makes things more efficient , and allows for more granular snapshots . In addition to being able to do a full system restore , you can selectively restore older versions of specific files , which is handy in case you delete or make changes you did n't mean to . Using Time Machine on OS X 10.7 and later also enables " <URL> " , which keeps snapshots of changed files on your main drive when you do n't have your backup drive attached , provided there 's sufficient space . Obviously this does n't help if you have a drive failure , but in the case of accidental deletions , etc. it can be helpful . For more information , Apple 's <URL> article is a good starting point . Online Backup If you 're on the go a lot , you may want to consider an online backup service . <URL> is a popular one , but there 's also <URL> , <URL> and several others . The advantages are not needing an external drive , and having an off-site backup to recover from in the event of something nasty happening to your house . The downside is the monthly cost ( I believe BackBlaze is a flat fee , others have differing schemes based on how much data you back up ) , as well as the time required to back up over the internet . These services only back up data that has changed , so after the initial full backup , things will get faster , but depending on your connection , it could be a bit problematic ( particularly if you 're travelling -- most hotel Wi-Fi I 've used is n't exactly speedy ) . <URL> SuperDuper is a longstanding Mac favourite . It will make a complete clone of your drive to an external drive , which is then bootable and usable exactly like your internal drive . It also has a " smart update " feature , where after the initial clone , it only updates the backup with changed data , to minimize how long backups take . SuperDuper is the best way to get up and running again after a hard drive crash -- you can boot off your backup drive right away and you 'll your full system . <URL> I 'm listing this separately from the other online backup systems because it 's not really a full backup , but it 's definitely worth using . It 's simply a folder that syncs to the Dropbox servers and wherever else you install your Dropbox client . Some limited storage of old versions of files is also included . 2GB is provided free , you can pay if you need more . The best use of Dropbox would be for your current working files . It wo n't store everything , but if you use it for the files you most often need , or those that you 're using lately , you 'll have up to date backups from whenever you have an internet connection . Wrap Up You 'll have to do think about what exact setup suits your needs best . Ideally , a robust backup system would include at least two or three of these options in combination , so that you have multiple fallbacks . For example , you could do a daily or weekly SuperDuper backup , and then use Dropbox or Time Machine to restore the files you 've been working on since your most recent backup . Adding in an online backup service for off-site redundancy will give you some added protection in the event your local backups are lost or destroyed .
When the user tries to install the update , the app store will alert the user saying something like " you must have iOS5 to install this update . " . The user will still be able to use the current version they they have , though .
The absolute worst case scenario is you are forced to revert back to a non-jailbroken device and may lose content if you did not make the necessary backups . That is bar-none the worst case scenario . It is also of note that Apple will turn you away should you bring in a device that is jailbroken . They have a firm stance against the practice and state that it will void your warranty . Of course reinstalling iOS and removing the jailbreak corrects this matter . Additionally , upgrading to future iOS versions will remove the jailbreak ( OTA updates in iOS 5 can not be performed ) . You can not " brick " your device , rendering it inoperable by using any jailbreak utilities . Repeat , you can not " brick " your device anymore than you can render a Mac inoperable by messing with OS X . A simple restore returns the device back to its original state . The ill-gotten rumor likely started due to the protection schemas in place that safe guard the mobile device from tampering ( i.e. , breaking Apple 's closed system ) . Apple has set up a gauntlet a jailbreaker must bypass in order to open iOS . During those stages , problems may occur , leaving the phone in a state of " flux . " This occurs when the device is left without a working operating system . In this state , it will not graciously look to iTunes for a fix . But rather sit in this state of limbo and require additional software to " bring it back to life . " It is , however , always possible to restore it and any coming forward to claim otherwise are only bringing to light their own ignorance and ineptitude at correcting the matter . I think an apt analogy would be to look at someone trying to jump start a car . It 's possible to boost any car , but some may reverse the cables , or fail to clamp the negative to a proper ground . Sparks fly and the ECU shorts . Surely if the person knew what they were doing , they would have jump started the car without issue . Jailbreaking itself does not pose an inherent risk . There have been cases where a jailbreak actually allowed the patching of a known security risk ( <URL> and then subsequently provided means to repair it well before Apple stepped in correct the matter upstream ) . These cases , are however , rare . Most of the time , a jailbreak relies on similar exploits to deliver itself ( <URL> ) . So while the jailbreak is safe , it may force a user to remain on a compromised version of iOS and unlike the initial PDF exploit that made jailbreakme.com possible , may not have the means to patch it . The biggest threat is the expansion of capabilities made famous through Cydia . The most prolific is the installation of SSH ( a secure file transfer protocol ) without changing the two accounts on the device ( root and mobile ) . They both share the same password ( alpine ) and without changing them , a mischievous hacker only needs to get the device 's respective IP address . After which , they will have root access ( full control ) . This , of course , is easy enough to overcome and will likely only affect the most ignorance of user bases . Surely you can not claim a house is unsafe because the residents refuse to lock their door ! Lastly , the installation of apps through untrusted Cydia repositories may also be a cause for concern . Jailbreaking a device removes Apple 's signature checks , so the device is only too happy to run most code thrown at it . While Apple stringently approves what code is given the authority to run on your device ( and sandboxes all apps for that matter , greatly restricting their privileges ) those checks are removed after the device is jailbroken . Moreover , those apps are no longer sandboxed like the ones found on Apple 's App Store . It 's possible that a user may come across malicious code , but no such cases have been made public . The jailbreaking community is n't bent on malicious intent , but rather freedom of choice . In that respect , they act as paladins , and anyone seeking to exploit their work would be brought to light before long . The troubles affecting jailbreaking essential revolve around ignorance and naivety . For an experienced and intelligent user , they bring no more risk to one 's security than a " locked " device . And in some cases , may provide the ability to tighten 's one 's security and privacy ( typically made possible by developers that use Cydia to distribute their wares ) . Note : Cydia itself is a reputable " store . " The programs found within it 's walls are all safe and typically carry some level of professionalism . The problems arise when users register outside repositories ( or repos ) that carry untested , pirated , or questionable software . Jailbreaking also does not mean iOS is free to run " cracked " software found legitimately in the App Store . Those security measures remain intact even on a jailbroken device and must be circumvented separately , outside of the actual jailbreak . Many are confused by this duality and assume a jailbroken device can natively install pirated apps . That is not the case .
The App Store only distributes one version of each app . Xcode 4.0 is no longer available as Xcode 4.1 replaced it . If the author of the software wishes to keep an older version on the store , the new version has to be uploaded as a different sellable item . In this case , Apple did n't choose to leave both . You can <URL> by joining the paid developer programs . Last time I checked , Xcode 3 was available with the <URL> . It runs on Snow Leopard - but it does n't look like you can buy Xcode 4.0 anymore without a paid developer account - it might not even be available to the developers - you might ask before paying money if you really need 4.0 and only 4.0 .
It will be released when Apple feels like it 's ready . It 's anyones guess at this point . Apple almost never gives out release dates for it 's products . Like IntuitionGQ said , you can always Jailbreak it
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
It seems you missed the " Read Me Before Downloading " section at the top of the 4.3 beta page : Devices updated to iOS 4.3 beta can not be restored to earlier versions of iOS . Devices will be able to upgrade to future beta releases and the final iOS 4.3 software . According to Apple , anyway , no , you ca n't revert to 4.2 .
Note : This answer is no longer valid . ( See @stuffe 's answer on how to install apps onto old versions of iOS ) The short answer is there is no way to install an app that was created for an iOS newer then the one you are running . You should connect the device to iTunes and see if you can get it updated to the latest 4.x iOS as many games and apps that target the 4 to 8 year old demographics will certainly work on that older OS . The longer answer ( and some <URL> ) is that developers of more powerful apps want to use the latest APIs that are introduced every iOS , and for a developer to create an app for an older iOS version , would mean he could n't use the newer tools . Worse , it 's more work to keep using the older API so cutting them makes schedule and financial sense . For example , a resource known as ARC ( Automatic Resource Counting ) has made a huge difference in reducing the time and cost of app development by automatically doing things that otherwise the developer would have had to manage . Because these necessary APIs do n't exist on pervious iOS versions , there is no way to run a newer app on an older iOS . Hopefully you can use the web versions or find acceptable apps to do the things you need this device to do to continue to be of use .
<URL> , ( scroll to the bottom of the page ) only the two most recent generations of each device can upgrade . So both iPads , the iPhone 4 and 3GS and the 3rd &amp; 4th generation iPod touch . One exception : The CDMA ( Verizon in the US ) iPhone 4 is staying on 4.2.6 for a while . It has some , but not all , features of iOS 4.3 . That leaves the first two generations of iPod touch and the original iPhone and iPhone 3G unable to use it . The 3G and second-generation iPod touch got stripped-down versions of 4.0-4 .2.1 . ( No multitasking , homescreen wallpapers , or printing . ) The other two devices left out ( 1st-gen iPod touch &amp; iPhone ) did n't even get 4.0 .
I finally found the solution to the Quicken on Mac problem . I downloaded Oracle Virtual Box , a free tool that allows me to run Windows on my Mac . ( Windows becomes a separate running application , that you can tab to ) . Then I installed Quicken . The original one and only ! Note , to do this approach , you need to have a Windows IOS file ( ie an installation CD )
My personal recommendation is <URL> for a small price and the ability to create archives . A free alternative is <URL> but this is limited to archive extraction only .
According to <URL> , it requires 1.5 GB when in VM . Usually you will assign a max of 4GB on the windows VM which should be sufficient for a satisfactory operation of Windows inside the VM with the Visual Studio . In this case there will be 4GB left for the hosting OS . Which usually is again adequate . Also , Yosemite does a really good job in handling CPU and Ram , so in my opinion you should be ok . My personal experience with a 2009 MBpro , 8GB Ram on Yosemite running windows on VM shows that there are very rare the occasions where I am out of RAM .
Do n't forget the built-in <URL> actions for encoding . The video plugin is very nice and has pre-sets starting with 480p ( VGA size ) and up . The Encode for : Greater compatibility toggle keeps the audio and video at a lower bit rate . Depending on what your tolerance for " less degradation " is , you might experiment with Higher quality if you see too many H. 264 artifacts on the default setting . It 's unlikely as the encoder has a lot of room with 1.5 Mbps as the ceiling for the video data rate . You could set up a few services to test the various settings and then make a folder action to apply your favorite encode setting to anything you drop in that folder . Automation is fun -- you might even be able to set up a folder action to do your uploading as part of this process .
It really all depends on how much patience you have . Using Motion as a stand alone editor is possible , but it is an incredible hassle . For example , cutting film into different pieces puts those different pieces into different layers . Sometimes it detaches the audio , which then means you have to do audio syncing . Plus , if the project is a long one , your machine might start to choke on it . I would n't recommend Motion as a stand alone editor . But , that being said , I 'd still recommend Motion for what you 're talking about . I think it is stand alone enough to do what you want , all you really need to do is get used to round tripping between iMovie and Motion . To do that : Cut your movie in iMovie Export it and import it into Motion Find the part that you wanted to put titling on and use " split " to separate it from the rest of your movie . Delete the part you do n't need . After you done using Motion , export the movie and import it back into iMovie . Just put it into the place it had been before ... I really like Motion myself ( use it all the time ) , and it certainly can add that extra zing to your movies . One more piece of advice , go find the Apple Training for Motion 4 by Mark Spencer . Great book , easy to use and gets you up to speed really fast . Yeah , I know , it 's for the old version , but Motion 5 is literally the same thing as Motion 4 with the addition of rigging . And if you 're not using FCPX you do n't need rigging . So , go get the book :-) .
You can scrape that information off photos on flickr taken with an iPhone 4S : <URL> Here are a few examples of extremes . The dark end seems to show a max ISO of 800 and max shutter of 1/15 , which several dark photos agreed with , and none of the ten I looked at went further , so here are two examples : <URL> 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 800 <URL> 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 800 Looking at very bright photographs , I saw a few claiming very high shutter speeds ( 1/9259 and 1/2600 ) but none of them matched the same exif format for the shutter speed field as the rest of the iPhone 4S photos I reviewed , suggesting that these fields were modified in post processing . The lowest shutter speed I saw that matched the format of the other 4S exif files was 1/1842 , and the lowest ISO was 64 : <URL> 0.001 sec ( 1/1842 ) 64 <URL> 0.001 sec ( 1/1842 ) 64 This should answer your question for highest and lowest ISO , and highest and lowest shutter speed . Keep in mind I only sampled a few dozen photos on flickr , it 's possible I missed the ends of the ranges . A random sampling from the " interesting " section , showing the mid range of shutter speed and ISO combinations : Shutter speed ISO 0.008 sec ( 1/122 ) 64 0.05 sec ( 1/20 ) 200 0.008 sec ( 1/120 ) 100 0.002 sec ( 1/550 ) 64 0.025 sec ( 1/40 ) 64 0.002 sec ( 1/464 ) 64 0.004 sec ( 1/242 ) 64 0.042 sec ( 1/24 ) 64 0.059 sec ( 1/17 ) 800 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 640 0.006 sec ( 1/170 ) 64 0.067 sec ( 1/15 ) 640
They both output a similar voltage level ~ 5V . However this is going to change once you start drawing current from the charger . The output will decrease if you start pulling more current . iPad charger provides 2.1 A at 5.2 V means you can pull 2.1 A and the output will stay at 5.2 V. Output voltage might go down if you draw more current ( say by attaching 2 ohm resistor across the leads and trying to draw 2.6 A ) and thereby also reduce the expected output current . Similarly , iPhone charger will be able to provide rated voltage ( 5V ) only up to 1A of current draw . After that , you might see a voltage drop . In terms of hardware , iPad charger will have a higher power circuit - most likely a bigger flyback transformer , mosfets with higher current capacity and bigger filter capacitors . You can benefit from ipad charger while charging an iphone if your iphone is able to draw current higher than 1A . If this is not the case , then there is no point . However you will notice longer charge times when you charge your ipad using iphone charger . Also , it 's false assumption that load remains the same . Here is a sample charging current and voltage curve for a li-po battery which I picked from a google image search : <URL> As you can see , initially the battery voltage is lower since it has discharged . Once it starts charging , the voltage increases and the charging current decreases .
" Allow Full Access " has nothing to do with using the actual keyboard . The keyboard is accessible for you to use throughout the system regardless of this setting . In short , allowing full access grants the developer of the keyboard additional access to some of your information and gives the developer access to the internet . From the <URL> under " Designing for User Trust " , Allow Full Access does this : Keyboard can access Location Services and Address Book , with user permission Keyboard can send keystrokes and other input events for server-side processing Containing app can provide editing interface for keyboard 's custom autocorrect lexicon Keyboard can employ iCloud to ensure settings and autocorrect lexicon are up to date on all devices Keyboard can participate in Game Center and In-App Purchase The second bullet point is what Apple really wants you to understand . With Allow Full Access a developer COULD send your keystrokes to their server for processing , which might include : analyzing your sentence for grammar analyzing a word for spelling predicting the word you are typing . Apple is highlighting the fact that a developer COULD use your keystrokes for nefarious reasons instead of the legitimate reasons I listed above . It is possible for a developer to record your sensitive information such as credit card number or street address . In my opinion , it is not possible for a developer to write a fully-fledged keyboard extension without requesting full access . Without Full Access I ca n't utilize In-App Purchases , I ca n't sync your preferences using iCloud , I can not even provide a basic auto-correct feature . I just finished developing a keyboard extension for iOS . My keyboard never sends your keystrokes across the internet . I will never see what you have typed . There are no privacy concerns in my opinion , yet you still receive a scary message from Apple when you turn on Allow Full Access . If you have concerns about turning Allow Full Access ON , ask the developer how they are using your data/keystrokes . One additional note , you can not use a custom keyboard to type into a password field . iOS will always use the system keyboard for password fields . Developers that do process your keystrokes will not have access to your passwords , unless you type your passwords into a non-password field .
On a new Mac ( presumably one that uses an Intel i5 or better processor ) , I think the hassle of rebooting to use BootCamp outweighs the benefit . I would run both Ubuntu and your favorite flavor of Windows in one of the Virtual Machine products . Some prefer <URL> because it is free . I 'm not in that camp , and I think it has poorer performance than the competing solutions . That leaves <URL> or <URL> . I 've used both , and find little difference between them in real-world usage . I use VMWare Fusion , myself . I would purchase whichever one you can find at a discount . I note that you can often find Parallels included in the Mac software bundle deals that pop up several times a year .
Yes . The keys in Visual Studio 2010 that you refer to ( for others that are unaware ) are known as " Navigate Backward " and " Navigate Forward " and work as described in the the following <URL> allowing you to quickly move back and forward between places you 've already been in your code , via a " Jump to Definiton " in Xcode , for example . The equivalent keyboard shortcuts in Xcode 4 are : Navigate Backward : Ctrl + ⌘ + Left Cursor Navigate Forward : Ctrl + ⌘ + Right Cursor
end question
start question
Can deleted device be reallocated in the Developer Portal ?
Each year when you renew your program membership you can remove devices added in previous years . So if you had 100 devices allocated , you could delete 5 and add 5 new devices . As soon as you add a new device , you can no longer remove devices for the remainder of that year . So what they are telling you is each year , after renewal , delete any devices you need to remove first . Once you add your first new device , you are only permitted to add devices until your next renewal up to a maximum of 100 devices .
I ca n't find any description in writing saying that there is any grace period for you to access playlists or any other data after you end a subscription period in iTunes Match . I do recall a warning when signing up for Match that quite explicitly said that I needed to be sure to download all playlists and music from the cloud before my subscription ended . This is in addition to the caution to keep a backup copy of all data ( which in the case of playlists would be using iTunes to export the library to an XML file regularly in addition to backing up each track ) . Apple could be more generous about keeping non-subscriber data around for a grace period of a day or a week or a month , but why risk this when you can back up everything now and then update that backup with anything that changes a week before your subscription ends ?
Only if the application itself supports this . If it does , it will have config files that allow you to specify either an IP address to bind to , or an interface name to bind to . You would then find out your internal IP address by checking the Network control panel or the interface by checking ifconfig through the terminal . As far as I know .
This works for both iTunes Apps and the App Store on the Mac . Log into your account via the App Store account link . Look for iTunes in the Cloud Click the View Hidden Purchases link . Select Unhide next to the App you want back in the list . Items are n't deleted from the list , just merely hidden .
Yes - all your apps will be removed from their respective App Stores if your developer program membership expires . If your Apple Developer Program membership expires , you will still have access to iTunes Connect . However , your apps will no longer be available for download on the App Store and you will not be able to submit new apps or updates . Source : <URL> Attempting to log in to iTunes Connect will show the following message , but all of the services are still accessible .
To create an account in the Users folder Create and set the shell property to bash . Create and set the user 's full name . ( Displayed in some of the panels/login screen ) Create and set the user 's ID . ( this is the unique id , you need to find out what id your last user create was and add one ) Create and set the user 's group ID property . ( This can be your default group ) Create and set the user home directory . Set the password . ( dont use password as a password ) Some more details can be found on <URL>
To do it in the Emulator , you can just use Quicktime , since the latest version supports Screen Recording . Keep in mind though that it captures the entire screen and not just a particular window .
The backup contains : All your settings Application data except data marked as " cache " or not to sync . Since iOS 5 there is a possibility for the developers to exclude some items from the backup . There are ways to explore your backup , but I do n't think this could give you definitive answer , wether your backup is complete or not . Developers should make sure that they do n't exclude items from backup that can not be recreated in some ways ( download , rebuilding &amp; etc ) . Some movie players offer to disable backups for their content , but this is configurable . Because TED content can be downloaded at any time , probably the developers decided to not backup video content . Check the app for settings .
Yes A single device can be added to as many developer accounts as necessary .
I assume since it was a month ago that you had iOS 6 on there ? If someone found it and wiped it from scratch , your Find My iPhone will not work . In iOS7 , <URL> could prevent them from re-activating your phone if they found it , and you might have a chance to find something .
Every Mac with two headphone sized jacks has one for in and one for out as the hardware is specialized for one direction . You do n't need to repair the computer to remedy this if you are OK with an external DAC such as the <URL> . The Mid 2009 MBP have identical physical connectors soldered on to the logic board , so even if the jack parts themselves are physically identical , they are wired to different parts of the sound in/out circuitry for both analog and digital and replacing that mounted part that would require a high level of soldering skill . The cheapest repair for this issue is the flat rate repair from Apple but even that is pricey when you could use tape or some other physical aid to keep the headphone in the jack as the metal latch no longer holds the pin properly .
Possibly a duplicate of this question : <URL> On this question , the highest voted answer suggests that you use BetterTouchTool ( download from here : <URL> )
You can re-download Lion even though it has already been installed by holding down the option key before clicking Purchased . Do not release the key until after the option to Install appears alongside OS X Lion . The workaround may be more reliable if something other than Purchased is in foreground before alt/option-clicking Purchased . Burn the installer to disc , then delete it when you 're done with it .
Yes , of course you can . I myself use <URL> ( second <URL> ) to put my Macbook Pro into hibernation . And if you prefer to use the command line , read this <URL> .
Yes - if the enterprise entity is the one distributing the pass to end users , then you should be fine using that certificate to sign Passbook items . Any Apple generated code signing certificate should be sufficient to fulfill the requirements . If you are concerned after reading this , a quick call to developer support might help alleviate any concerns you have . Apple documents this at <URL> and the version 1.1 of this document states : Use of Apple-issued Certificates All passes need to be signed with an Apple-issued certificate to be recognized by Passbook . Passes should only be signed by the entity that will be distributing the pass under its own name , trademark , or brand , and that entity 's information should match the information on the back of the pass .
I can confirm what Nathan G. reported . I have a computer with Windows , and when I plug my iPod on that computer , it says me it is already synchronized with an iTune library ; it asks me if I want to synchronize it with the library present on Windows , warning me that the content of the iPod will be deleted , if I decide to do so . I did n't select Manually Manage Music in both the computers .
Yes . ( It 's a " world iPad " for both the AT&amp;T and Verizon model . ) Whether a device functions worldwide for a specific wireless standard depends on the frequency bands that it supports . E.g. . The new iPad supports LTE , but only the frequency bands 700 MHz and 2100 MHz which are not used outside the US . The <URL> has been called a world phone , because it supports all the frequency band used for GSM <URL> : 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz The <URL> supports the same GSM frequency bands for both the AT&amp;T and Verizon model . Therefore it 's a " world iPad " . Of course you need a SIM-tray , to make use of this . Like the iPhone , the iPad has a Micro-SIM card tray .
Only Company / Organization accounts can add additional developers to its team . As stated under the <URL> page , in the Individual account section : Individual Development Only You are the only one allowed access to program resources .
You can erase free space using Disk Utility . ( ) . In the sidebar of Disk Utility , select " Macintosh HD " ( or the drive where you 'd originally stored the file ) . At the top of the window , select the " Erase " tab . Towards the lower left-hand corner of the window , there 's a button labelled Erase Free Space . This lets you overwrite all of the free space on the drive ( which is where your deleted file currently resides ) . You can choose a one-pass , three-pass or seven-pass erase -- hopefully that 's more than enough . And if not , I guess you can just do it multiple times . As always with Disk Utility stuff , be a little careful . I did this a couple of years ago with a three-pass erase , something screwed up and I had to restore from a backup :(
apple.com , ipad for business : <URL> From disabling Safari completely ( ) to functional options : Enable autofill : When this option is off , Safari does n't remember what users enter in web forms . Force Fraud warning : When this option is off , Safari does n't attempt to prevent the user from visiting websites identified as being fraudulent or compromised . Enable JavaScript : When this option is off , Safari ignores all javascript on websites . Block pop-ups : When this option is off , Safari 's pop-up blocking feature is disabled . Accept cookies : Sets Safari 's cookie policy . Choose to accept all cookies , accept no cookies , or reject cookies from sites not directly accessed . Thereby you can limit the iPad to only apps ( and webapps ) installed by you .
end question
start question
Good free audio converter for OS X Lion ?
While I 've had multiple good suggestions for programs here I wanted to post my own answer as no one answered with the program <URL> ( it was in a comment by @MaxRied however ) . X Lossless Decoder ( XLD ) is a tool for Mac OS X that is able to decode/convert/play various ' lossless ' audio files . The supported audio files can be split into some tracks with cue sheet when decoding . While confusing and over the top at first the learning curve did n't take too long to get over and in the end it is a very solid program that does everything I need and then some . One word of warning however , it will not re-convert files . So if you have a bunch of 320KBps MP3s and want to convert them to 128KBps MP3s it will refuse to do so . Other than that huge annoyance ( I switched to Max recommended by @TraneFrancks to finish off these files ) it works great .
<URL> is a free , cocoa-based UI for SSH tunnel management . Works on 10.5 and up . It has n't been updated in a while but the code that 's there is reasonably stable . It 's worked well for me in the past .
<URL> gives you the current version of Firefox in builds optimized for G3 , G4 and G5 PowerPC processors that runs on Mac OS 10.4 and 10.5 .
I 'd say go with Plex . I 've been using and testing different media center apps for years , and , like you , stuck with Front Row until Lion came out , because nothing else felt quite right . Since then , Plex has won me over , especially with the huge progress made in the last year or so . In terms of user experience , Plex is the closest thing to Snow Leopard 's Front Row . I always disliked the visual clutter of XBMC and Boxee , and even earlier Plex versions . But the current Plex version has a VERY clean interface and works great with the Apple Remote . It can handle almost any file format ( without installing extra codecs ) , unlike Front Row , and you can have it watch any folder on your machine ( or network ) , not just the ~ / Movies , ~ / Videos and iTunes . It automatically downloads artwork and metadata for movies and TV shows in your library based on their filenames , and there are many high-quality channels ( plugins for streaming content ) that you can install right inside the client . The channels have to present their data in the same layout as the native Plex library , so the interface is consistent . Plex integrates with iPhoto and iTunes as well , showing them as available channels . Finally , since Plex is really a two-part setup ( client and server , both of which can easily run on the same machine ) , it 's expandable . Once you set up the server , you can use it with the client on that machine , and you can also view your library on other Macs , PCs , iOS devices , Android devices , Google TV , Roku , LG Smart TVs , and DLNA TVs . I think they even released a WebOS client too . Most of the client apps work with absolutely zero configuration . As long as you 're on the same network , all available Plex servers and their libraries just show up . Start playing something , and the server will even transcode the video or audio ( in realtime ) if the client device does n't have the necessary codecs to handle it . Plex is n't perfect , but it 's under very active development , and constantly improving . And the UI finally looks and feels natural . Also , it 's everywhere . Practically every screen in my house has access to my Plex library . Some of the apps ( iOS , Android etc. ) cost money , which is good for the long-term survival of Plex as a platform , but the Linux ( server only ) , Mac ( client + server ) , Win ( client + server ) are all free .
You have two options : You can use the command-line utility like so : Replace the with the number of levels you would like to recurse down into . Or , you can use <URL> . A GUI application that recursively downloads websites . You can also specify how far down to recurse with SiteSucker .
Well , I like jaberg 's answer , but time has passed and no security configuration guide was published . So , 14 months after Lion 's release , and now that a new major version of Mac OS X was released , it seems that they do n't publish these security configuration guides any more .
<URL> ( free ) GeekTool will let you set up a simple icon or show more detailed information , embedded in or floating over your desktop , based on whatever programming you want . If you can write a script to check the server and return either a binary status or more detailed information , GeekTool is the way to display it .
I have n't found one that interfaces with the website you mentioned , but here 's a good overview of genealogy software for OS X : <URL> <URL> is actively developed ( it was just updated a few days ago ) , is <URL> , and it has an iOS version too ! It does n't export to ancestry.com but it can interface with a custom-built website called MacFamilyTree.com .
I used Open Office , it does the job ok . No crashes , quite feature complete . However if you really do n't want to pay anything for an office suite , I 'd go for Google Docs . If you do want to pay , then definitely go for iWork . It 's the only one that 's fully integrated with OS X ( especially if you have Lion ) .
While I 've had multiple good suggestions for programs here I wanted to post my own answer as no one answered with the program <URL> ( it was in a comment by @MaxRied however ) . X Lossless Decoder ( XLD ) is a tool for Mac OS X that is able to decode/convert/play various ' lossless ' audio files . The supported audio files can be split into some tracks with cue sheet when decoding . While confusing and over the top at first the learning curve did n't take too long to get over and in the end it is a very solid program that does everything I need and then some . One word of warning however , it will not re-convert files . So if you have a bunch of 320KBps MP3s and want to convert them to 128KBps MP3s it will refuse to do so . Other than that huge annoyance ( I switched to Max recommended by @TraneFrancks to finish off these files ) it works great .
I 've been in communication with the creator of Chax , and no , it does n't work on Lion ( it definitely works in Snow Leopard ) . He says he 's working on it . His site is <URL> . Addendum 9-11-11 : The main awesomeness of Chax is the ability to auto-accept Screen Shares with certain people in your Buddy List ... including yourself . For instance , if you travel with a laptop and suddenly need to get files from your Mac back home , you simply get a second iChat/AIM account for that laptop , set up Chax on the home Mac , set it up to autoaccept the laptop 's account , and you can screen share automatically with your home Mac . I 've come to completely rely on that weekly for the past couple years .
Look for Java Preferences in Utilities . There you 'll find order of Java binaries browser will use .
Try using <URL> , it 's free , deletes Mac apps and remove any of its related files . To use it , just drag and drop the app you want to remove onto AppCleaners window .
You can edit Date and Time in iPhoto , and do it in batches too : Photos Menu - > Adjust Date and Time - and it will also correct the date and time on the original file if you choose to . Another thing to consider : iPhoto catalogues the images on import . If you subsequently change the metadata with a 3rd party App , iPhoto wo n't recognise this . It will not rescan for changed metadata , so while you 're original files may be corrected , it 'll make no difference in iPhoto .
My guess is no , but this is not a definitive answer . I first created a very large ( ~ 160 MB ) . txt file , and made changes to the file in TextEdit . As expected , that file and its versions showed up in . The files appeared to be ~ 160 MB to , but according to they used 0B on disk . The hard link count for each file was 1 . A folder called ( chunk storage ) under had grown by about 110 MB . Every time I changed the file , the following happened in : A ~ 160 MB file was created in . The hard link count for this file is 1 . That file appeared to move to . The hard link count remained 1 . That ~ 160 MB file became 0B , and the size of grew by about 2 MB . The free space of the drive ( ) was consistent with what told me . Free space would go down significantly , and then return to nearly what it was before saving a new version . Next , I tried to shred the file with Secure Empty Trash . OS X seems to use a program called to securely delete the file . Attaching to shows an awful lot of reads and writes to the original . txt file . While is doing its thing , all the versions under can still be accessed with data intact . After is done writing over the data , it unlinks the original . txt file , and the versions in suddenly disappear . then moves on to anything else in the Trash , while never touching . Whatever is in is not being securely erased . EDIT : I should add that whatever is in is somehow obfuscated or compressed ( the folder was only ~ 120 MB ) . I have n't yet read the versions or filesystem sections of Siracusa 's review ... maybe there are clues in there .
In general all programs call on the operating system to do things . These are the API - application programming interface . Lion changes some API , adds new ones , and deletes old ones . The biggest problem is when a program needs an API that is now gone . The second issue is when things change . Lastly , when a new feature like Mission Control is introduced , perhaps the older program is n't expecting it 's windows to be moved around in that manner . The assumptions made by a developer can turn out to no longer be true which will cause little or big glitches . Also - programs that do n't use API but just react to things as they are can break when those things move . For example - if a program assumed ~ / Library is visible - then it would clearly break when running on a clean version of Lion . Device drivers change - that can cause errors . Lastly , entire compatibility layers like Rosetta are dropped .
Does <URL> work ? It offers <URL> for a lot of formats , quote from the FAQ : Calibre supports the conversion of many input formats to many output formats . It can convert every input format in the following list , to every output format . Input Formats : CBZ , CBR , CBC , CHM , DJVU , EPUB , FB2 , HTML , HTMLZ , LIT , LRF , MOBI , ODT , PDF , PRC , PDB , PML , RB , RTF , SNB , TCR , TXT , TXTZ Output Formats : EPUB , FB2 , OEB , LIT , LRF , MOBI , HTMLZ , PDB , PML , RB , PDF , RTF , SNB , TCR , TXT , TXTZ
OS X Software for Editing XML <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( free/open source plugin ) for <URL> ( shareware ) <URL> ( commercial )
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
Yes , those apps you mentioned are free for new devices . ie , activated on or after September 1 , 2013 . All five apps will be free if you meet the following criteria : You have to activate an iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch on or after September 1 , and The device has to be compatible with iOS 7 , and you can check our complete list of devices that can run iOS 7 , and You have to install iOS 7 , which will be available September 18 . Before then , the apps will still have a price tag on them . <URL>
end question
start question
How can I create a zip archive for Windows and Linux users ?
removes extended attributes and ACLs by default implies and ; would require is compress , uses PKZip ( zip ) instead of CPIO Setting tells to remove extended attributes and ACLs instead of creating files The files that start with are AppleDouble files ( not resource forks ) , and they are used to store extended attributes and ACLs . Extended attributes are used to store the quarantine status of files , the source URLs of files downloaded from the Internet , information about aliases ( aliases stop working if extended attributes are removed ) , Spotlight comments , the encoding of files saved with TextEdit , and so on . You can list extended attributes and ACLs with . You can remove extended attributes and ACLs recursively with
From a window : <URL>
OS X can handle both by default from Finder . The <URL> that ships with OS X knows how to extract both formats . Just double click on the file or Cmd-Click ( or right click ) on the archive and select ' Open ' from the list and OS X will unarchive it . Users also have access to , and from a Terminal window command line . These all come with OS X. There 's also the free , and most excellent , <URL> that they can install that allows for a few more options when dealing with compressed files . It also supports a few more formats . But it 's completely unnecessary for extracting gzip-compressed tar archives and zip archives .
If you are using Bootcamp , Apple has provided <URL> : print screen = fn + ⇧ shift + F11
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
Apple really designed the iPad as a 1-to-1 device ( one device to one person ) so I do n't think there is an EASY way . I know they have deployment products out there that might make it so you can remove and restore profiles , but it 's not on the fly and I think it 's very clunky . I also did a quick Google and noticed this software that is out in beta and is exactly what you want , but it looks quite experimental and your iPad needs to be jailbroken to install it : <URL>
TomTom calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it . Garmin calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it either . The only app I found that supports this feature is <URL> ( $ 1 , or free <URL> ) . Basically you upload an image to their website , then you use this application to view the map with your location shown on it . From the app description : Once you 've uploaded your map to the website , use this app to view the map on your iPhone . Even better , go to the location the map represents , and view it there . You 'll be amazed when you see your position correctly shown on the map , no matter how much the map is stretched or squashed compared to the geographic space it represents . You wo n't need a data connection to view maps -- great if you 're going abroad .
<URL> Runs on virtually anything , and has awesome security . Not the prettiest , but the best features for the price .
would close all untitled documents without saving them . You could close the current window with . It would close all tabs in some applications that use tabs though . It 's easier to just press ⌘ W ⌫ in my opinion . You can disable the animation for showing the sheets with .
Use the command The command is So , after you SSH in as the admin , issue the command : That will set the preferences value for the particular user you are interested in without having to know their password . I personally checked this on OS X 10.11.4 using an account called " testguy " . I was able to SSH into the machine , set the preferences using the command you provided and verify that it was set by issuing the command : The response was ( true )
You can get scroll ( and maybe a few others ) by using Apple 's Boot Camp drivers . Article <URL> . All the links to the drivers seem to be gone , so you may have to extract them yourself .
Power Nap will receive user level data for any users that are logged in . If you have fast user switching enabled and both accounts are logged in when the Mac goes to sleep , both should get updates . If there is a bug , it could be reported , but in the light testing I 've done , everything seems to work well for users that have logged in . If the user is not logged in , updates currently do not occur ( OS X v10 .8.2 ) .
Extended attributes is what you 're looking for . xattr will allow you to view and modify extended attributes at the command line . Look at the man page for more details , but in brief you can write one with the following command xattr - w com.foo.myattribute " A bunch of data " / path/to/file
I found the answer <URL> . Close Mail ; Go to ; Edit ( make a backup just in case ) ; Find the key-string pair : Change the tag value to your desired archive folder name , e.g. or depending on your account folder naming scheme . Save the file ; Reopen Mail The Archive folder ( s ) will now apear with their own icon on the left pane and not as regular folders . You can also add an archive button to the toolbar .
From a window : <URL>
Microsoft has a Student store that sells <URL> , downloadable , with key for $ 69 . Presumably from your post , you would qualify for academic pricing .
Reminders You can create a service using the Automator : Open Automator.app Select Service For Reminders : Add action Ask for Text to prompt for a new To Do Add action New Reminders Item Save Service Create Shortcut in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Keyboard & #x 2192 ; Keyboard Shortcuts & #x 2192 ; Services & #x 2192 ; Text Notes See Mohamad Elwan 's answer for notes
The answer to your new question is the US International PC layout provided by Apple .
If you launch Archive Utility directly from , you can create <URL> - compressed archives , which can have a higher compression rate than zip compression . However if you 're compressing already compressed files ( like most music and video files ) , you likely wo n't get much space savings , if any . If you want to try however , open up Archive Utility , open the preferences , then change the Use archive format : setting to compressed archive , and create a new archive from the file menu ( ⌘ K ) . This setting only affects archives created when you open the Archive Utility app . Ones created with the Compress option in the Finder 's context menu will still be zip archives .
Is n't it how it 's working already ? I just tried drag 'n' dropping a folder on the Textmate icon , it opens in " project mode " , then I added a file to the folder , which Textmate did too , when gaining focus . And deleting the file and focusing Textmate made it disappear from the project pane .
end question
start question
How to know which iOS apps are restricted to a country ?
I do n't know of anything automatic - but you can browse the iTunes store here : <URL> This is the US store - if you browse to your app , and then replace the ' us ' part of the URL with the country code for the store you want to check ( e.g. ' fr ' for france , ' ie ' for Ireland , etc ) - you 'll either get brought to the entry for the App in that country , or get an error message that the app is not available . I do n't think you 'll find a huge number of apps that are n't available . If you use Apple TV , do consider that the films/TV choices in other stores may be much more limited . You might want to consider keeping two accounts rather than changing . It can make management a little more inconvenient , but you 'll have a bigger choice of things to buy/rent .
If you care to read the tea leaves , the initial OS X v10 .11 Developer Beta supports the following Macs : iMac ( Mid 2007 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or newer ) MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) Mac mini ( Early 2009 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Mid/Late 2007 or newer ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or newer ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Source : <URL> . No <URL> are published by Apple . About your last question , no . There are no macs supported by Yosemite that are not supported by El Capitan .
No , it 's not currently possible to set auto update for specific apps . You have to turn Auto Update off at the App Store level then review each update notice you receive to determine if you want to update that app or not .
<URL> is an app that can notify when apps begin using microphone or webcam privileges . I do n't know how it 's implemented under the hood , though .
As long as you have n't excluded something manually from the backup it will backup everything , except some cache and log files . I do also have custom programs in , , ... and everything still worked after restoring the system from my Time Machine backup . There is a good collection of <URL> on the web you may like to consult .
Devices not supported by iOS 5 : iPhone ( original ) iPhone 3G iPod Touch first generation iPod Touch second generation AppleTV Source : <URL> . " iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS , iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod Touch 3rd generation , iPod Touch 4th generation , iPad , iPad 2 . "
In general , you will need to jailbreak ( if that 's even possible on the new iOS ) the device to revert the OS . iOS upgrades ( OTA or via iTunes ) are one way and have been that way ( unable to downgrade ) since the 1.0 . Hopefully someone will see your plea for help once they know if and how a jailbreak will work . In the past you needed to get shsh keys from Apple and there was a limited window after updates to get the old keys . If this is so , time is of the essence for you . I have n't been keeping up on jailbreaking enough to even recommend a wiki or reputable source other than to recommend you search the internet . Of course if someone has n't already asked a how to jailbreak iOS 6 question here , you are free to ask that question as well or edit that into this question .
A different approach is to use an app like <URL> or <URL> which not only can record notes , but also integrate with other note taking tools . Evernote is strong for tagging notes with location and time of capture . Notability is stronger since it allows you to draw notes , sketches or type notes while recording . Once the session is over , you can tap on your notes to queue the sound to the time when you wrote that specific note . It 's got reasonably good options for audio recording , but no audio editing features -- but if the combination of note-taking and audio notes appeals , it 's pretty ideal . If you just need a simple - fast - press one button and go app - try out <URL> . It 's snappy and works from the Apple Watch to the iPad Pro .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
The <URL> : Late 2009 : MacBook ( MacBook6 ,1 ) Late 2009 : iMac ( 21.5 " iMac10 ,1 , 27 " iMac10 ,1 and iMac 10,2 ) Mid 2010 : MacBook Pro ( 13 " MacBookPro7 ,1 , 15 " MacBookPro6 ,2 , 17 " MacBookPro6 ,1 ) Mid 2010 : Mac mini ( Macmini4 ,1 ) Mid 2010 : Mac Pro ( MacPro5 ,1 ) Late 2010 : MacBook Air ( 11 " MacBookAir3 ,1 , 13 " MacBookAir3 ,2 ) All later models are unquestionably compatible . A public list ( on <URL> ) is not available yet , but a list may be available in the <URL> ( Developer Only ) . For the Developer Preview : Registered Developers can access in for a full list of officially supported Mac board-ids . It may be possible to install on some unsupported hardware through <URL> , <URL> , or other methods .
Borrow an old iPhone and <URL> by following the setup directions on iOS 9 or you could use the <URL> to attempt a dry-run on the Android side . That way , you can actually use the new OS for a bit and if it 's unlocked , you could swap SIM cards between the two devices . If you do n't mind the cash outlay , you could also buy a new phone outright and educate yourself on the return policy if you 're mostly sure the change will be for good .
One quick way is on <URL> . Enter " Kairosoft " in the search box . Click on any app title link . Scroll to the bottom of the screen and click on the " Other Apps By This Developer " link . This will bring up a custom page for that developer listing all of their app titles and update info . A custom RSS feed is also generated in the upper-right corner of the screen . This feed will update for any new app releases .
This might not be exactly what your looking for but <URL> has several articles on the current state ( or lack there of ) video cards for the Mac Pro . Take a look at <URL> and <URL> I recently had to replace a second dying NVidia 8800 GT in my Mac Pro ( early 2008 ) but decided to stick with an Apple card . Most of the non-Apple branded cards will not work until the machine is past the boot volume selection screen ( if you need it ) and I seem to find myself switching boot volumes frequently .
You might also want to have a look at <URL> and <URL> which are powerful automation tools . Keyboard Maestro in particular is incredibly powerful .
I do n't know of anything automatic - but you can browse the iTunes store here : <URL> This is the US store - if you browse to your app , and then replace the ' us ' part of the URL with the country code for the store you want to check ( e.g. ' fr ' for france , ' ie ' for Ireland , etc ) - you 'll either get brought to the entry for the App in that country , or get an error message that the app is not available . I do n't think you 'll find a huge number of apps that are n't available . If you use Apple TV , do consider that the films/TV choices in other stores may be much more limited . You might want to consider keeping two accounts rather than changing . It can make management a little more inconvenient , but you 'll have a bigger choice of things to buy/rent .
I get receipts by e-mail from Apple whenever I buy something in the iTunes store . If you do n't delete them they should still be there .
Yes there is ! <URL> does exactly this . It is a US$ 3 app for iPhone ( also works on iPad , it 's a universal app , no separate purchase ) . Just to avoid even the appearance of impropriety , let me state that CaptureAudio is a past-sponsor of a podcast that I do . That being said , their sponsorship slot is over and has nothing to do with me posting this here . It just so happens to be an app that I know which does the exact thing requested . Usage is very simple , start recording and you get a big button on your iPhone . Tap it , and a marker/bookmark/notation is added to the recording . You can even create different kinds of bookmarks , and each one has different symbols attached to it . Screenshot from <URL> When you are listening back later on , tapping one of those marker/bookmarks will jump right to the spot where you recorded it . ( You can see screenshots of that on the website . ) Actually I think it 's even smart enough to jump back a little before the marker , which is good because you probably did n't realize you need to mark something until after it was said ! The app also backs up to Dropbox , which is nice , but I have n't actually used that feature , I 've just done everything on the iPhone . When listening back to long recordings ( over an hour ) , the app does tend to crash sometimes , but this is only on playback not while recording which would obviously be a deal-breaker . I assume that crash is probably related to the iPhone running out of memory , but IANADeveloper , so that 's just a guess .
Yes . Any jailbreak-only app could potentially do everything you describe because they can acquire root access and run outside of iOS 's sandbox .
As far as I can see , there is not . Developing such a Sugar might not be possible from my ( very limited ) understanding of the Espresso plugin documentation -- <URL> look like the best match , but the API does not seem to offer the kind of access needed for automatic highlighting . Note I have n't delved into the ObjectiveC plugin docs ( because there are none -- the headers included with Espresso are the docs , and my understanding of ObjectiveC and Cocoa is slim , to say the least ) .
This will not be possible . You will see an cloud icon when you previously " purchased " an app . This will notify you that you could download the app withous any costs . It is not possible to delete those apps from your apple is . If you do n't want to see the cloud icon , you could sign out from the appstore via settings > iTunes &amp; App Store > sign out . This will hide the cloud icon but you have to log in each time you want to download an app .
end question
start question
Where are the Mac OS X alert sound files located ?
Any files located in the following locations will available to choose as alert sounds : ( Note : By default the latter 2 folders may not exist , but if created and populated with files , you 'll be able to choose them in the Sounds preference pane ) .
Since you are going over the network . They only drawback relating to NTFS is that if other PCs will be using the file share that are not Macs , you might want to disable some of the files Mac OS is creating on every network volume it touches . Consider adjusting some setting to prevent <URL> files from being written to the NTFS drive , that might clutter the " Windows Experience " as referenced from <URL> What about the . DS_Store files ? Depending on the Windows PC settings , you might see a bunch of . DS_Store files on the Mac file system . These are normal but if you 're peeved by them , you can disable . DS_Store files by entering the following defaults write command in OS X 's Terminal : If you want them back , just switch that to ' false ' at the end .
The " Computer Name " screensaver is stored in . Displaying the computer name is just the default text for this screen saver , you can enter other texts in the Screen Saver Preferences .
Mac OS X does n't store passwords for the command-line ssh client . It can however remember the password to your private key in the Keychain if you are authenticating via keys .
Deleting the files from an individual app and doing a clean install of Mountain Lion are two different things . As per mckeed 's answer , you can use AppZapper to delete an individual app , other alternatives being <URL> or <URL> , although the latter could be a bit overkill for what you want . Fresh install for ML is a different story though , I did a fresh install the other day and I 'm super glad I did - I 'm one of those people who just collects apps and files they do n't need and everything gets a bit clogged after a while . Simple instructions to do so are : Start off by backing up whatever you need ( I know this ones a bit obvious ) , save anything you want to keep to an external harddrive . You 'll need to get your hands on another external harddrive or usb stick at least 8gb , and it has to be empty as we 're going to use this to make a mountain lion boot disk . If it 's not empty , do n't worry we 'll erase it in step 7 . Download mountain lion from the app store , but do n't install it otherwise the app disappears and you 'll have to re download it . Secondary click ( right click , whatever you want to call it ) the install icon and choose " show package contents " from the menu . When the contents of the install file are displayed you 'll see a folder called " SharedSupport " , open this up and you 'll find a file called " installESD.dmg " . Copy this file somewhere so you know where to find it . Open " utilities " in your applications folder and open " Disk Utility " Plug in your blank USB drive from step 2 . You 'll now see it in the left pane of the disk utility window , click on it to select it . Click on the " Erase " tab in the main disk utility pane . Change the " format " dropdown to MAC OS Extended ( Journaled ) and then name your disk something that makes sense to you like " Mountain Lion Install " . Click erase . Click on the " Restore " tab in the main disk utility pane . In the " source " section , you 'll need to navigate to and select the " InstallESD.dmg " file we copied earlier . In the destination tab you 'll need to select your now clean drive . Click Restore . The drive and your mac will now make whirry and buzzy noises for a while . When it 's done cooking it will tell you . You now have a Mountain Lion boot disk . Restart your computer with the new Mountain Lion drive plugged in still and immediately hold down the option key when it starts back up . If you 've done this right , instead of booting OSX you 'll see a picture of your drive to select . Click on the disk you created earlier to boot from it . Now the scary part . You do n't want to install just yet , somewhere on the screen there is an option for utilities , I think from memory it 's in the top bar . Click utilities and select " disk utility " which looks alot like ( actually exactly like ) the disk utility app you used to make the disk earlier . This time , select your macs harddrive in the left pane and click the erase tab , make sure the format is set to MAC OS Extended again and click erase . You 've now erased your harddrive . Close out of the utilities window and continue the installation as normal installing Mountain Lion onto your newly clean Harddrive ! Hope all this helps , best of luck !
You can find the location to your home directory by looking in the " Users &amp; Groups " System Preference pane . Open " System Preferences " application Click " Users &amp; Groups " Click the padlock to unlock it , if it is not already unlocked . Enter user name and password for an Admin user . Right click on the User name you want to find the home directory for , select " Advanced Options ... " Observe the path as noted next to " Home directory : " Now , once you see where OS X thinks your home folder is located then you can work on un hiding it if it is not showing up where it is suppose to be . Make sure its name does not start with " . " , Additionally you can use the command to make it visible if it appears to be hidden for no apparent reason .
In OS X 10.8 it 's called burn complete.aif ( or burn failed.aif -- they are the same sound ) and is found in . To get into , right-click the file and select Show Package Contents .
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
When a file gets sent , you 'll be given a popup menu with a list of apps in which to store the file . You have to pick one if you want to keep the file . If you just press Cancel , the file gets deleted .
Here is the <URL> . You can always find developer resources on the <URL> sites . You can find other OS X documentations there , as well as iOS documentations . Other resources , such as feature descriptions , revision histories , upcoming changes , and user agreements can be found there , also . The best of luck in your programming endeavours !
I have 2 mac : 1 office running OS X 10.9 , Mavericks , and 1 personal running OS X 10.10 , Yosemite . My files in OS X 10.10 , Yosemite are not showing but in OS X 10.9 , Mavericks they are still present . Try logging in from another Mac running OS X 10.9 and you might find them there and be able to take a copy , as this is what I am doing right now .
Your Pages templates are located in the following folder : You can rename and delete templates without accessing the folder directly , by right-clicking on a template in the template chooser .
For comparisons , see : <URL> Agreed with the others : yes , use SBCL or CCL . CCL makes it easier to invoke ObjC libraries , such as for writing native Mac Apps . That becomes the tie-breaker for some . ( Personally , I 've enjoyed using both but tend to stay current on SBCL as my main compiler for server software . ) For completeness : CCL is Clozure CL ( not to be confused with one spelled using " j " in middle , which is another dialect than Common Lisp ) . SBCL compiles to faster code , and CCL has shorter compile times . Both are solid compilers . For targeting iOS/iPhone/iPad , there 's been some success with ECL . See : <URL> But I would n't consider this a front-runner and have n't actually used it myself yet beyond samples posted on that blog . Although MacOSX thread support is considered experimental with SBCL and self tests will fail if you compile from sources ( which is required to enable threads ) , threads work well enough for most cases . I 've deployed heavily threaded production code by developing on MacOSX then releasing to servers running FreeBSD ( which also has similar issues with threads ) and Debian/Ubuntu Linux ( very stable ) . This has served me well for the past 5-6 years , including at a few start-ups . QuickLisp ( for obtaining libraries ) is very stable on SBCL/MacOSX . Have n't tried it on CCL but should be rock solid there too !
On my Mac mini under OS X 10.6.5 , a gives me Java 1.6.0 _ 22 . It 's an out of box + upgrade from 10.6.4 to 10.6.5 and installation of last Xcode 3 .
iPhoto Photos Location iPhoto stores photos and meta-data in the user 's home folder : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library Within this folder , the original photos are stored at : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library/Masters Bulk Copy with rsync If the user name was , the <URL> all the original photos to the local desktop would be :
Versions are stored on the same physical / logical volume as the original . This Q&amp;A has all the technical details , but in short , look in the root user owned folder on each volume . If you create a disk image , the user that mounts the disk image normally owns the directory where changes to documents on that volume are stored . <URL> So - if that volume is FileVault encrypted ( or a secure disk image ) then the version is as secure as the original . When you copy a file by attaching it , you only send the current saved copy - not any previous versions - so then again - it 's only as secure ( or not ) as the medium into which you send that file . So - versions does n't do any additional encryption and it 's really up to each application to decide whether it enables or disables versions and whether the data it writes is also obfuscated / encrypted - but the presence of versions neither adds nor subtracts security to a system .
When adding an . m4v file , or other acceptable A/V type file extensions , to iTunes either by drag and drop or using File > Add to Library ... the file is added to Home Videos under Movies . In a fresh install of OS X , in the image below , it shows the available tabs when selecting Movies in iTunes . Note there is no Home Videos tab . <URL> In the image below , after adding a video to iTunes the Home Videos tab appears under Movies and shows the added video . <URL>
Files that get exported to iTunes on iOS do n't automatically transfer to iTunes the next time you sync . A manual step is required : select the device in iTunes , then click the Apps tab and scroll to the bottom of the page . The file transfer section is where you pick Pages and then place a copy of the exported file onto your computer 's file system . Apple has a longer article with step by step instructions and pictures : <URL>
Unless you 've already found it , how about something like <URL> ? It seems to have been published in 2009 and references Leopard in the description , so may also be a little out of date , but from the <URL> seems to have a reasonable amount of information about security and OS X internals . May be a bit left field for what you want though ... ? Or for something newer ( due to be publishe June 2012 ) how about <URL> ?
They 're located at . Each application has its own individual folder under Mobile Documents where its documents and settings are stored .
end question
start question
how do I get a Quicktime video window to play on an external monitor , simultaneously using the laptop for something else ?
In Quicktime Player , go to Preferences . Under " Full Screen " , there is a picture of your screens similar to the Displays pane of System Preferences . If you click on a screen , a picture of the QT Player logo will be overlaid on that screen . The screen that has the logo is the active screen for Full Screen Mode . EDIT : I do n't know if you can still do other things while QT Player is full screen .
Yes , the receiving company will need an <URL> and <URL> . Part of the process of enrolling involves agreeing to Apple 's terms of service and other legally binding agreements . Without agreeing to Apple 's agreements , the receiving company will not be able to participate in Apple 's App Store or Mac App Store . It is possible to have applications associated with your Apple Developer ID but not participate in the App Stores . However , those applications will not be eligible for sale through Apple .
Agree with Loïc that this question should be rephrased , but if you 're looking for a possible solution without being subject to Apple 's whims , there are many third-party bluetooth keypads available ... <URL> -- meant to attach to an Apple wireless keyboard , but has mixed reviews <URL> -- blasphemy , I know , but it has good reviews <URL> -- non-Bluetooth alternative that uses Logitech 's mini USB receiver
I know that this is an OLD question , but I thought I would add to the answers posted back in 2011 . When it was released you could not open video encoded with ProRes in video players that did not support the Apple QuickTime playback architecture since ProRes was a proprietary Apple encoding format . But in late 2011 an open source decoder became available for <URL> as a compile in option . Just to be clear , ProRes was never intended as a playback format . ProRes was designed as an intermediate codec for use during video recording and editing , and was a replacement for Apple Intermediate Codec . As a result , it was never intended to be used as a " playback " format . That 's why you could only play it back with QuickTime or editing software . For optimal high quality video playback across a variety of video players ( that have the horsepower to play back your video ) you need to encode your video as a H. 264 MPEG-4 video . You will want to set both the temporal and spacial compression to minimum , and make sure that the playback bit rate is not capped in the compression software . H. 264 and MPEG-4 were designed for playback , and that 's why it 's the main format behind YouTube , Blu-ray , and virtual all playback systems in use today . While H. 265 is starting to become more common , it is not yet as widely playable across a variety of devise . If you do want to try and use ProRes as a playback format , then you need to make sure that the player you are using connects to the QuickTime playback codecs , and that you have the <URL> installed on your system . The only video player that I know that will handle ProRes ( other than pro editing systems ) is VLC , and you need to have the ProRes decoder installed to make this work .
Command-Return Hold the Command key and tap the Return key This will bring you to a Finder window , where the file/app is selected within the enclosing folder .
You could get something like <URL> , which has passthrough for any standard 3.5 mm audio , and provides volume controls and a clicker remote ( just like on Apple 's headphones ) . The clicker can to play , pause , and skip ( double click for forward , triple click for backward ) . There are other similar products out there , I found a few by searching for " iPhone inline remote " .
The iPhone 4S takes video at 1080p and 30 fps and initial tests are showing that video takes 200MB per minute . At roughly 12 GB per hour , what seemed staggering a year ago is now quite quaint with the iPhone 4 recording at less than 5 GB / hour . <URL> that an hour of iPhone 4 video is 4.8 gig . The iPhone records its 720p HD video at around 10 megabits ( Mbps ) per second . That translates to about 80MB per minute , as we noted above , or a staggering 4.8 GB per hour . ( Hope you sprung for the 32GB model ! )
I have not had success with " Reporting a problem , " because my requests have been ignored in three different cases now . Here 's my workflow that has worked for me each time : Purchase App Find something wrong with App Report a problem ( it will be ignored , but do this just to say you did ) Contact credit card provider and dispute the charge with your reasons ( mine are usually " software did not work at all " or " as promised " ) Wait 3-5 business days Credit card provider resolves dispute , issues refund Apple disables AppleID due to " security risk " of account access Contact apple support by emailing or asking for a phone call Wait 1-2 business days for response Kindly explain what happened , they respond by following a walkthrough of re-enabling your account after verifying security questions
Two options : ( 1 ) using <URL> ( formerly KeyRemap4Macbook ) which you already have installed , or ( 2 ) using <URL> which allows more flexible remapping . Maybe you have an older version without this capability , but update to the latest version of Karabiner and you will see an " F10 to Volume Mute " remap option . <URL> For this problem , BetterTouchTool also works well . Although it 's primarily focused on mapping trackpad gestures to various actions , it also allows remapping of keyboard keys . This is a bit more flexible than Karabiner for this example , since it does n't require the exact preset you want to already exist . <URL>
According to Apple , no . The iMac Retina 5K does not support Target Display Mode . Note that the iMac ( Retina 5K , 27-inch , Late 2014 ) does not support Target Display Mode . You can see it <URL> .
With some care it can be done safely . It depends by and large on what kind of loads you 're placing on the MacBook when it 's being used like this . The MacBook Pro 's ventilation operates optimally with the lid open . Closing the lid restricts airflow out of the vents that run along the inside of the hinge on the laptop as seen here : <URL> When the lid is closed , there 's a slight gap along the bottom that 's used as an exit route for the hot air coming out of those vents as seen here : <URL> If you 're closing the lid , you should ensure that the entirety of this exit path along the bottom of the laptop is free from obstructions . That means not placing the bottom of laptop on a flat surface . Generally a vertical stand like this is employed if you want to operate the laptop with the lid closed and ensure ventilation remains adequate : <URL> You should monitor the temperature sensors of your laptop to ensure your workloads do n't push the unit beyond normal operating temperatures when you 're using it with the lid close . You can use something like <URL> to keep an eye on critical , system operating parameters such as CPU use and the various temperature sensors in your MacBook to make sure they stay within their safe operating limits .
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
It depends on the <URL> used by your external hard drive . Most likely , the file system is <URL> which allows both Mac and PC to read from and write to it , so you would be fine to just plug it into your Mac . It could however be <URL> which is Microsoft file system that PCs can read and write to but Macs can only read . In this case , you 'll still be able to read all of the files on the drive and copy them to your Mac , you just wi n't be able to add any more files or alter the files while they 're still on the drive . To tell what file system the drive is , just right-click it in Windows and select Properties , the file system should be shown in the General tab . If the drive is NTFS you have a few options : You could <URL> to FAT32 or exFAT . You could install <URL> on your Mac which allows you to write to NTFS drives . You could share wirelessly from your Windows machine . You 'll have to Google this yourself as it 's different for each version of Windows and you have n't said which version you 're using , but it 's fairly easy .
Not today . This is similar to how iBooks also can not ( currently ) be viewed on a Mac . ( and I do n't have any clue if this will ever happen , it just seems like something that could happen )
Yes . You just need the right video and audio adapters . Apple sells two adapters to connect your MacBook 's Mini DisplayPort to <URL> or <URL> . Neither of those will include audio , so you 'll also need to get audio cables . Your TV likely includes either optical or composite ( RCA ) jacks for one or more of your DVI or VGA connections . For HDMI , you 'll need a third-party adapter like <URL> . Note that this one does not carry audio either . The most recent 13 " MBP does put audio out over that port , but I 'm not aware of any adapters that can use the audio yet . That same site also sells third-party VGA and DVI adapters that are much cheaper than Apple 's . I ca n't vouch for the quality of the third-party adapters , but I buy most of my cables there , and I 've always had good results .
You need to run VLC . In VLC , go to the Video menu and the Fullscreen Video Device menu and choose which screen you want to use for fullscreen video playback .
You can change the library location from the window on the tab . and select the tab . At the top where it says click the button : In the Finder window that opens , move the to the place where you 'd rather it exist . This can take some time if it 's a large library . Once it 's moved , double click on it in Finder and your Photos app will update and point to the new location .
Try this ( not automated , because i do n't like automated delete for anything ) : Make a " smart album " in the iPhoto with the condition " Photo is Movie " . With this you get all movies into your new smart album . press info ( for check how much MB they 're occupied ) Simply drag &amp; drop movies out of the iPhoto ( long time ) ensure ( double check ) they are really OK move the movies from the smart-album into the Trash empty ( triple check before deleting - do not blame me , when your computer get destroyed or so )
If you 're pressed for time , and since you mentioned the Macbook Air was new and purchased last week , it probably was installed with OS X Lion which has full-disk encryption . If this assumption is true , then Back up your data . I 'd recommend using Time Machine ( so you do n't have to re-setup your user id , install apps , etc ) . create another " throwaway " admin id , and log in to your " throwaway " admin id and delete yourself from the Mac using System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups preference pane .
You can also enter the following in Terminal : then This will display the full path in the titlebar . to turn it back off change the - bool to Or if you want to copy the text of the path you can drag the file into Terminal .
end question
start question
How do I get my ( lost ) device 's serial number from its UDID ?
I found one way . I am an iOS developer , and I once used this iPad for development . Xcode has an Organizer window , which keeps tracks of the devices I used for development . The iPad appears on the list , and it also displays the serial number . This of course only works if you have developed with the device using Xcode . I wonder if there is a more standard way to get the serial number .
In all cases I have tested , iOS recognizes epub files and will offer to send them directly to iBooks . I have tested this from the email all , dropbox app as well as mobile safari . Other apps like Evernote and AirSharing also are able to receive my epub files , so if you are not able to do this , perhaps it 's an encoding issue or something about how the files are being attached to the emails and not necessarily a problem with iOS .
Instructions from official CocoaSuite support To deactivate , delete this folder : Other files and folders installed that can be deleted ( ~ stands for your home directory ) :
The Hackint0sh Community has generously created some kext management tools for everyone to use , even those that own and operate a bone fide , genuine Macintosh . <URL> - ( check out the video demo ! ) <URL> <URL> You can use these tools to experiment and quickly discover exactly what will work for you . SRTools , at least , even has history and undo functions to help you avoid leaving your machine in an unbootable state , which is possible when messing around with OS X extensions . You see ... userland is userland , and kernel space is kernel space , and never the twain shall meet , except on the <URL> . The idea here , and what these tools are used for , is to experiment . In the Finder , under the Go menu , select " Go to Folder ... " or type ⇪ shift - ⌘ command-g and type / System/Library/Extensions in the address field that appears , and in the window that opens , look for extensions with " thunderbolt " in the filename . Use one of the above linked utilities to test your set up with unloading and loading the various kexts , to see which one , if there is indeed one , that will reveal itself as the one you need . Then you can streamline the process later ( such as with a <URL> that has been <URL> to unload/reload a kext ) . A great resource for discovering how to customize your particular set up is to browse through the <URL> , and , of course , <URL> is quite often essential for discovery , and at times , gleaming understanding .
I found one way . I am an iOS developer , and I once used this iPad for development . Xcode has an Organizer window , which keeps tracks of the devices I used for development . The iPad appears on the list , and it also displays the serial number . This of course only works if you have developed with the device using Xcode . I wonder if there is a more standard way to get the serial number .
Depends a lot on what file formats you 've got and what sort of quality you 're expecting . If your library is mostly h. 264 format ( typically mp4 , m4v , and most mkv files ) then the Apple TV should work pretty well for you . Anything in an mkv container will need to be converted to an mp4/m4v container , but that can be done losslessly most of the time ( i.e. no transcoding of video , just extracting the component streams and muxing them into an mp4 container - you may need to transcode the audio , but that 's easy and quick to do ) . If you have a lot of non-h .264 stuff ( i.e. anything in . avi , DIVX , etc. ) , you 'll need to transcode it , which means losing some quality and can use up a fair bit of CPU power . You can transcode ahead of time using a tool like <URL> , or you can try transcoding on-the-fly , which requires less planning ahead , but for HD files you 'll need a pretty beefy CPU , and the process is pretty haphazard . You can view the steps for doing that in my answer to <URL> Transcoding ahead of time also has the advantage of being able to use iTunes as a library , so you can access the files directly from the Apple TV . This applies to other files as well - if you can get them in iTunes compatible format ( basically any mp4/m4v as above ) , your life will be a lot easier , as you can access them directly from the Apple TV , rather than going to your computer and streaming them to the Apple TV . Finally , if you were n't aware of this already , you will need a computer running iTunes on at all times you want to access your library , unless you 're playing files from the iTunes Store or Netflix .
The answer was indeed to reset the NVRAM by holding cmd-alt-p-r during boot . Cheers :)
Indeed @cksum appears to be correct . I just tested this on my dev device that 's never had Facebook installed . The app said that it knew my location and showed the blue location icon , but did n't show in the list of apps in Location Services . I pressed ' send ' and got the ' Facebook wants to use your location ' message , which I accepted and now the app is in the list and allowed me to switch it off . In conclusion , yes it appears that Facebook does n't request the actual location data until you press send , at which point the app is added to the list in Settings .
Go to your account settings , delete your iCloud account , reboot , add it again .
I assume you are referring to the notice that comes up in Terminal " You 've got mail " Create a file . forward in your home directory . ( that 's a period and the word forward with no space . In it write the address you want the mail forwarded to . This file has to be owned and readable by your userid . Jobs run by cron by default mail their output to the owner of the crontab file . This can be overridden by specifying the option MAILTO=userid@somewhere.com at the top of the file . See man crontab for details . The second only forwards the details of jobs run from that particular crontab . If you have sandboxed services that have individual crontabs on a user basis ( E.g. . You have a database service that runs a consitency check on the database at 2:30 every morning , and runs that service as user mysql , then you have to add the line to mysql 's crontab . General best practice for email that goes to non-real users is to forward it to a role first . E.g. All the machines in your network send their system email to sysadmin@mydomain.com Then on a central server you forward sysadmin 's mail to a real person . This makes it much easier at vacation time to temporarily forward email to your temp sysadmin .
thanks to @ismail for the suggestion that lead me to my final answer . So at the suggestion of Timothy the best answer I could come to is to create an Automater Folder Action that will move files from the Mail Downloads folder to the User Downloads Folder . To do so : Create a Folder Action Add an action for " Get Specified Finder Items action " and target the Mail Downloads folder Add an action of " Get Folder Contents " ( with repeat for each subfolder checked ) Add the " Move Finder Items " action and specify the downloads folder . Save the Finder Action with a relevant name ( I named mine Mail Download Mover ) Now go find the Mail Downloads folder in your User Library folder . Right click the Mail Downloads folder and select " Set Folder Action " This will move all your " downloaded " mail attachments directly to the download folder ( usually it takes a second or 2 for the automater to kick in ) I tested this using a zip file I emailed myself . After double clicking the zip file it went to the mail downloads folder and unzipped there . Then both items were moved to my downloads folder .
All third party apps on the Watch currently are going to be slower than grabbing the iPhone , unless you ca n't get at the phone due to social constraints or it being inaccessible in a bag or pocket or some distance from you and the watch . This is because Apple has made every effort to let no code run on the watch at release . Third party apps get to run nothing on the watch . They do n't get access to the digital crown , force touch , regular touch , sensor data or the speaker/microphone directly . They only pre-load some potential answers and pictures ( think flash cards and a small photo album ) and all the work gets done on the iPhone OS . If you want an answer quickly , get your phone out and access the apps there directly . That saves the Watch from constructing a network connection to the phone , waking it up if needed , activating the app in the background and then telling the app what to do so that the phone app can then tell the watch what images / text to display . If those assets are not pre-loaded on the watch , you then have to wait for them to transfer . The watch will be faster than the phone only when the phone can push events to the watch on its own behalf . For Dark Sky - perhaps you have a severe weather alert that the phone detects in the background or due to a push notification from the Dark Sky servers to the phone using APNS . Then the phone knows there is a watch and pushes a notification to it . You 'll get that notification on the watch before you can pull out your phone . Worse , most of the apps that are shipping are programmed only in the Xcode simulator and not by developers that have used the watch . A select few developers had the chance to tweak their app with pre-release watches and in the past few weeks with hardware , but most apps just ca n't be great yet . It 's like reading a book about how to learn to ride a bike and then playing with a bike riding simulator . Developers need to go out and ride their bikes and crash , skin their knees , crash some more before they know how to actually ride that new bike . Here are some developer perspectives explaining this in more detail : <URL> <URL> The two apple watch apps I was involved in were not shipped . After evaluating the risk of shipping a smiling , we decided the benefit of being " First " was n't worth the high chance of wasting our time and our user 's time until we actually know if the app would be useful .
You can add the location into your executable path . Step 1 : Use an editor to open ~ / . profile Step 2 : Add the actual path into the file . For example , I added / Users/work/documents / fun/scripts into it and my ~ / . profile looks like Step 3 : Restart terminal , and issue which command . You should see the path of your program , and should be able to run the program regardless of your location . Or another way , move the program into the existing executable path . To see existing executable path .
In iOS 6 , your phone number and your Apple ID will be unified , so when you 'll receive a iMessage or a Facetime call , they will appear on all your devices ( iOS and Mac OS ) . More info <URL> . So I think you just need to wait until this fall to resolve your problem !
Try doing a ' repair permissions ' in Disk Utility . A permissions error could be causing the preference to get overwritten by the default .
Try turning your iPhone 's brightness slider to the middle or slightly lower , but leave auto-brightness on . The phone will usually auto-adjust its brightness after it gets locked ( display turned off ) and then turned on , maybe a minute or so later , in different lighting conditions .
The battery serial number is written physically on the bottom of the battery : Also , in order to ensure at the official repair store that the battery is genuine ( which was originally my purpose ) , the same serial number is on the box the battery comes in : ... and also in the official papers accompanying the repair part . Of course , both the box and the battery inside of the box should be sealed and opened for you only just before the replacement operation .
In a word , no , it 's currently available for any App to read , and then subsequently use as it sees fit . However , Apple recently made clear that they would not approve future Apps that request it , and so it 's use will be negated over time , but of course this wo n't necessarily apply to the millions of apps already approved .
Can they , yes . Do they any/every time you sign in to the App Store , I think not . Apple would probably be able to collate your device 's anonymous and unique ID with your Apple ID if you opt in or agree explicitly to a question that informs you that the serial number will be checked to verify eligibility for a specific product . You might capture the serial number to iCloud if you are opting into trusted devices , two-factor authentication or find my iPhone / find my Mac . It 's debatable whether Apple actually links that serial number to your account though , since they could stored in the way that let 's you retrieve your serial number from all the possible ones as opposed to just storing it directly in the database . Also , your question is extremely broad due to the fact that Apple ID can be used windows , on web browser sessions , on iOS devices , Mac devices , on airport devices , and on AppleTV space ( currently ) . Furthermore , AppleID can be used with far more services than just the App Store so as you see with iCloud , it can get more complicated than yes/no . On operating systems , Apple provides a security and privacy preference that allows you to opt in to sharing diagnostic information which could under some circumstances include serial number . More recent OS include a randomly generated GUID to help anonymize reports . You also can regenerate that ID on-demand on IOS to further enhance your privacy . Apple has clearly stated many times on the record that they wish to collect as little customer data as possible , and retain that data for short periods only . Apple appears to minimize even further personally identifying information and that the consumer should clearly opt into these collections . From where I sit , Apple has delivered on those promises in the software they design and ship . I also think your question is an extremely valid one , we all should be thinking so clearly as you are about the information we routinely provide to large corporations and how it either allows them or prevents them from invading our privacy and selling us out to the highest bidder .
If you are referring to the changes you made being deleted ( i.e. , the stuff it watched you do ) , I expect it is permanently deleted . The action itself ( in the source list ) ought n't ever be deleted .
end question
start question
HD Video Capture software for Logitech Web Cam ?
I have the C910 and it 's totally working on my Mac Pro and my MacBook Air . QuickTime can record 1080p , as well as iMovie/FinalCut should . There is no necessarity for drivers or additional software to get this working on your Mac .
Display Recorder from the same author does exactly that . Thanks to Vaccano .
The answer boils down to how much work the compression algorithm can do to squeeze the file down , and how much quality loss you are willing to tolerate . Dark Knight on Blu-ray uses VC-1 encoding at 24Mbps , and it 's around 27GB on disk . Good thing BDs have so much room ! The goal is to give really good quality . The iPhone encodes things around 17Mbps ( according to the file I just checked ) using h. 264 with the High@L4.1 profile . It has to encode things in real-time because it ca n't stream the raw video to flash . Doing things in real-time limits the amount of work the compressor can do and results in higher file size than slower compression . The iPhone could probably choose to degrade the quality of the video in order to get smaller files , but since you can never get quality back , it makes sense to keep quality there at the beginning . The BD rips you 're talking about have two things in their favor . One is that people are willing to accept a much lower quality than the BD in order to shrink the file size . Also , they have plenty of time to compress the files , so they can easily compress at half or quarter real time . That lets the compression algorithms find a lot more ways to shrink the file size without degrading quality . If you want to store the iPhone videos yourself for later viewing , you can certainly transcode them yourself and shrink them . You probably would not want to use the results for a <URL> but they would be perfectly good for keeping memories .
This wo n't help with graphs , but for making molecular diagrams I highly recommend the open source <URL> , which is free for Windows , Mac , and Linux . It lets you create all sorts of molecules and export them as Java applets , images , or animations .
You may also want to look into the excellent <URL> . I have n't had a need for it in several years but back in the day it was really one of the best there is . Looks like it is still updated regularly .
iTunes uses the same technologies as QuickTime for playback . According to <URL> circa 2005 , QuickTime is capable of playing 24-bit , 192kHz audio files . I think it 's safe to say that iTunes is fully capable of playing these files . However , you 're probably limited by the hardware in your Mac . If you open the " Audio MIDI Setup " app , you 'll probably find that your Mac is limited to audio output at 96kHz . So , if you want to listen to these files in full 192kHz , you 'll need to use a dedicated external USB DAC , and bypass your Mac 's internal audio hardware . Please correct me if I 'm wrong . Further reading : <URL>
Both the MacBook Air / Mac Mini ( which can lack a CD/DVD drive as shipped ) and Macs running Lion now simply <URL> from within the Boot Camp Assistant .
It is able to do so , I 'm doing this exact thing right now . I 've got two 1080p monitors connected , one via HDMI ( to DVI ) , one via Thunderbolt ( also to DVI ) - works all fine :-)
Yes , most external webcams will work fine with a MacBook Pro with a built-in camera . Just check the box for the camera before you purchase to ensure it 's compatible . Some webcams may come with bundled software which only works on Windows which is why you should check before you buy in case the software features are important to you .
In OSX 10.9 and above this is all in Activity Monitor app under the Energy tab . It shows your battery life over the last 12 hours , and while it was plugged in is highlighted in green . It also shows you what apps are sucking on your battery and how much they are draining at the moment , and on average .
Answering my own question from the new iPad at the Apple Store . Definitively yes .
Usually things like that are caused by browser extensions or an odd interaction between a specific browser version and the code on the site . Have you looked over the basic support page for the Developer Forums ? <URL> It has a " contact us " form if you ca n't solve this by ensuring an up to date ( and unmodified ) version of Safari is n't rendering the web site properly for you .
A quick search gave me two promising applications : Commercial : <URL> Freeware : <URL> I believe that both do what you want .
The new Web Inspector was made to be a bit closer to Xcode . There is no direct way to get the old one back , without reverting to other means . For example : running Lion in a VM ( to run an older Safari ) . Running a nightly build of WebKit - but this may only have the new inspector Using Chrome ( while still WebKit , it still uses something that seemed closer to me like the old inspector ) . So no , at this time , it does n't look like its possible to revert back to an ' older ' version of the inspector . The best bet would be to submit bugs at <URL> . If it is missing features that the old one had , possibly future revisions would bring some of this back .
I found two : <URL> It is an open source free , video editing software , effects , and compositing suite . When I used it several months back , it was very unintuitive and I could n't figure out how to use it . However , there are <URL> now . <URL> Kdenlive is an open source , multi track video editor released under the GNU Public Licence . ( The screenshot is of Kdenlive running on Windows , but it is available for the Mac through <URL> )
I assume that you mean 5000 observations . R will work , and <URL> will get you to use R with a bit more GUI than the native application . Commercial solutions like Stata -- which has a soft learning curve , in comparison especially to R -- will also work that kind of sample without any difficulty ( by statistical standards , 5000 observations is a relatively small dataset ) . The learning curve will matter if you want to reach beyond a mere plot ; otherwise , a quick look at the documentation for line graphs should suffice ( for R , check <URL> and <URL> , for instance ) . HTH !
Whilst copying from Safari as plain text is not possible as far as I know , the OS X system shortcut for pasting as plain text is ⇧ ⌥ ⌘ V. For Microsoft Word , go to Edit → Paste Special → Unformatted Text or Edit → Paste and Match Formatting .
No , GarageBand can not do this . You should investigate the commercial products <URL> and <URL> . Also have a look at <URL> by SuperMegaUltraGroovy . It provides a good method for assisting a person in transcribing by ear .
<URL> generally answers the question of legality . Including these font files in your app and using them with or is unquestionably not permitted . However , for a web app you can non-explicitly use it by <URL> <URL> : This will of course result in slightly different appearances per platform and version ( namely non-Apple platforms and Apple systems before iOS 9/OS X 10.11 ) .
Unlike the Time Capsule , the Airport Extreme does n't support being a backup destination , no matter what drive you use . It is possible to <URL> , but this is unsafe - the AEBS lacks features that help protect data , and without them , the slightest network error can make your backups useless . Some of the technical reasons for this have been explored here : <URL> However , you can look for a network-attached drive that supports Time Machine , such as WD 's My Book Live . These are drives that attach by ethernet instead of USB , and they implement the file-sharing features that Time Machine requires .
end question
start question
What is a good Time Capsule substitute ?
Any <URL> product will do , but it 's possibly more expensive than a single Time Capsule . The advantages are a lot tho . :) You can compare the <URL> . I have used a Drobo ( not pro , not fs , not anything ) and it had problems with certain reliability , but I 've heard nice things about Drobo FS and even Drobo Pro . There are other NAS out there , so find one that you can afford , seek for reviews and go ahead :) . The nice thing about ( Drobo in this case ) is that you put " normal " drives in there , if one fails , you just replace it . BOom . That simple . It works in practice too . I 've had two drive failures while using the Drobo .
1 ) It 's a one-off payment . 2 ) Apple do n't allow duplicate app names in the store , so as long as you make sure that the name of the app you 're buying exactly matches the name of the app that you want , then you should be OK . Or if it 's a popular app , like Fruit Ninja , just buy it from the listing of most popular apps .
As current hard drive-oriented techniques for file sanitization are <URL> , I recommend to encrypt the whole hard drive using Filevault 2 ( best if you did this before you put your data onto it ) . ( This is only possible in Lion , Filevault 1 in older versions of MacOS will only encrypt your home folder . ) This way you will not erase your data , but make them inaccessible without the password . Your buyer will then have to reformat and reinstall MacOS for his use .
Finally , I decided to give a try by myself . I had no particular problem , I just followed the well known procedure of backup to Time Capsule , interrupt , and restore the USB drive to the Time Capsule sparsebundle related to the machine . All my previous backup , have ben recognized . However , for 500GB of data I had to wait for two days to be completed . Apparently , by matching the two . sparsebundle size , the data seemed to be transferred in a reasonable time from 4 to 7 hours . For the rest , it just seems that disk utility stopped doing nothing for the rest of the time . Even the USB drive went in stand by mode for almost two days . Then , after two days , it just stop informing that the restore went fine .
<URL> is a quick-and-dirty application that displays the contents of your Time Machine backups , and shows what 's changed since the previous backup .
ESC and then B moves back one word ESC and then F moves forward one word You can change the terminal settings to more sane shortcuts like ALT + B and such : here 's a link on how to do that <URL>
There is no product that provides a stand and charger with a mic , but there are several external mics you can clip onto the iPhone . Some ( lower quality ) use the headphone jack , and some ( higher quality ) use the 30-pin docking port . Here are two examples : <URL> This mic uses the headphone jack . <URL> This mic uses the docking port , but has a pass-through USB connection that permits charging while the mic is in use .
Launch the AirPort Utility . Select the Time Capsule whose disk you want to erase . Hit the " Manual Setup " button . Click the " Disks " icon button . Click the " Disks " tab . Select the disk ( not a subvolume , the disk itself ) . Click " Erase ... " . Follow the dialogs from there .
Did you add your media to iTunes ? menubar - > file - > add to library Then restart iTunes .
You have nearly 6 months ( 180 days ) time to upload the binary . As per Apple developer <URL> , 150 Day Warning . You will receive an email when you have had an app created for 150 days but have not yet delivered a binary , reminding you that you have 30 more days to deliver your binary or your app will be deleted from iTunes Connect . You will be given an exact date of your deadline in this email . 173 Day Warning . You will receive an email when you have had an app created for 173 days but have not yet delivered a binary , reminding you that you have 7 more days to deliver your binary or your app will be deleted from iTunes Connect . You will be given an exact date of your deadline in this email . 180 Day Deletion Confirmation . You will receive an email confirming that your app has been deleted from iTunes Connect , if you have not delivered a binary before your 180-day deadline .
In the past - Apple had three methods to install : erase and install ( now deprecated ) archive + install + migrate upgrade install ( now deprecated ) Now , when you run the installer - it is always archive , install , migrate . SO the existing system folder is n't touched ( it gets archived ) and a new system folder and library are created on the drive . So some folders get erased entirely , some have modification scripts and most user folders do n't change . The user folders might get a light script run to clean known issues , but in general - the things in the user home folder are left alone . The system then reboots into the newly functioning system to run further installations and then kicks off the migration script . That script is responsible for the <URL> where it actually goes over each user folder and migrates all the apps , settings and checks for known incompatible software and packages so they can be disabled before any user logs in to the newly made system . The whole process usually takes 5 to 25 minutes for the system tasks and then the last user step can take a few moments or a few hours in my experience . Past an hour , it is usually hung and you might need to do an erase / migration from backup . <URL> The old system is then deleted unless the script detects a potential that it will be needed or the migration failed in some manner . I you wan to do an erase instal , you need to erase the drive using internet recovery , target disk mode or similar and then run an installer on a blank volume .
<URL> is pretty solid , with a simple clean interface , and the ability to add feeds directly int he app - no Google reader required . I use Reeder now , which I think has a nicer , slicker interface , but Reeder requires Google sync - you ca n't add feeds directly in the app . Before that , I was very happy with NewsRack .
Yes , it 's straightforward to do it , even though it would take quite sometime to complete depending on the size of your current backups . Follow the detailed procedure at <URL> . Here 's a summary of what 's required and the steps . The backups go into a sparsebundle on a . So you need to create that sparsebundle on the , mount it in and then copy over everything from your USB drive into the mounted volume . Here are the basic steps with some additional information : Configure to back up to the and start a backup . This will make it create the sparsebundle . Cancel the backup once the copying starts ( as seen in the progress window ) . Mount the sparsebundle in by double-clicking it ( or using Cmd + Down Arrow ) Delete the folder inside this volume ( you 'll be replacing it with the backup you already have ) . Open your current backup USB drive in and copy the folder from it to the partition ( mounted from the ) . Enter your administrator password and accept the prompts ( this may happen a couple of times ) .
Super highly unlikely you 'll find something like Time Machine , as that relies on file-system event logging that was custom made by Apple for Mac OS X . You can , however , mount the Time Capsule 's disk drive as a file share using either AFP or SMB and use any program that will back up files to a file share , which is almost any program that backs up to disk , although beware of possible issues relating to ownership and permissions and unflushed buffers . Note that the following setup assumes you are using Airport Utility 5.6 or later but NOT Airport Utility 6.0 . If you are running Lion , 6.0 is installed by default but you can have both installed on your Mac and use both . You can download Airport Utility 5.6 <URL> . If your are on Snow Leopard or earlier , you probably already have 5.6 . Airport Utility 6.0 is greatly simplified and <URL> that were available in 5.6 . You need to explicitly enable File Sharing on the Time Capsule using the AirPort Utility . From the AirPort Utility , select the Time Capsule , select Manual Setup , click on the Disks tab . That should present you with the " Disks " pane , which should list the disks in and attached to the Time Capsule . Note that like Disk Utility , the list is hierarchical , with drive partitions listed under drive devices . My Time Capsule just has the internal drive with one partition . ( Click on the triangle next to " Time Capsule Disk " if you do n't see a partition name under it . ) Click on the partition name an the right panel changes to show you information about it , including giving you the ability to change its name . This partition name is the root directory name for the SMB share , so make it short and without spaces . You should avoid hyphens , too , as sometimes hyphens are converted to spaces and sometimes spaces are converted to hyphens and it just gets unnecessarily confusing . Underscores are OK . Now select the File Sharing panel to get to the rest of the configurations you need to set . With Time Capsule firmware version 7.6 and later you have 3 choices for password protection : you can use the same password for file sharing that you use fo Time Capsule , you can use a different password , or you can go all out and set up multiple users , each with their own password ( and corresponding ownership and permissions features ) . You also want to assign it to a Workgroup if you 're using SMB and you want your Linux and Windows machine and the Time Capsule to all be in the same workgroup . The default workgroup name of " WORKGROUP " is the easiest way to go . To authenticate the SMB client for access to the Time Capsule when you have not set up individual users on the Time Capsule , you can use any ( non-blank ) username ( it is ignored ) as long as the password is correct .
By all means - vote with your wallet . It 's trivial for a trained technician to replace the hard drive on a Time Capsule . Rather than put the rubber covering back on the base , you can use <URL> to raise the capsule up from it 's shelf . Most feel iFixit has decent <URL> if you care to DIY .
The feature you are looking for is called " DHCP " . This does exactly what you want , assign an IP address constantly given a specific MAC Address . Open up Airport Utility.app , click your Time Capsule , then " Manual Setup " . When the management dialog loads , click " Internet " up at the top , then " DHCP " in the category/tab bar . From there , you can click the plus in the bottom-left hand side of " DHCP Reservations " . This will open up a dialog that allows you to create a reservation via MAC Address , or " DHCP Client ID " . Fill in a system name ( does not necessarily have to be the specific hostname ) , click MAC Address , then Continue . Fill in the MAC address , choose an IP address , then click Done , and then Update the Time Capsule ! When the client computer next refreshes it 's IP address ( most computer 's do this once every two hours or so ) , it should pick up the new reservation , now and forever . Alternatively you can just shut the interface on the computer and turn it back one . Or go into Advanced and manually renew the lease . etc. etc. .
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
Yes . All times listed on your phone indicate when you received the notification and are relative to the current time on the phone . This includes not only notifications on the lock screen , but also in the Messages.app , for example , and the Mail.app . All time stamps are listed for when the notification was delivered , or when the action occurred on your phone ( you made a phone call , and looked in Phone > History ) .
That is the Option key ( Alt on Windows ) . It 's not the same as shift - it 's generally used as a secondary modifier for keyboard shortcuts ( Command being the primary modifier ) and for shortcuts that do n't perform an action ( Option-8 is a bullet point and Option-Shift-8 is a degree symbol ) .
You can still access data from " dee 's backup " by selecting " Browse Other Time Machine Disks " from Time Machine 's Dock menu . ( Right click or click-and-hold on TM 's icon in the Dock . ) TM is holding onto both sets of data because even though YOU know you copied all the data from the old machine to the new , all TM knows is that a bunch of data just showed up on the new machine . It does n't know where that data came from , but knows it should be backed up . When TM , running on " dee 's Macbook Pro " , needs to delete files to make room , it can only delete files backed up from " dee 's Macbook Pro " . Even the root user on that machine has no authority ( and can not give TM authority ) do delete some other computer 's backup files . You do n't need any of " dee 's iMac " backup . As you say , everything from that computer got copied over , and none of it has been needed since last year . It 's time to let it go . To do that , open the Backups.backupdb folder on your backup disk , and delete the subfolder named " dee 's iMac " . ( I 'm assuming you 're backing up to an external disk connected to your MBP . Details will be different if you 're backing up to a Time Capsule or a network volume , but the principle is the same . ) Time Machine wo n't let you modify that backup in any way except that it will allow you to delete it in its entirety . You 'll need to authenticate as an admin to do that . And it will take a while . You should be able to delete it using Finder , but if not you can enter the Terminal command :
end question
start question
How to change the cover photo of an album ?
In my experience , the cover photo is simply the first photo in the album . When you 're within an album , hit the button in the upper-right corner to manipulate the photos ; then tap and hold a photo until it " inflates , " at which point you can drag it to move it around . You 'll just have to be happy with your album cover being the first photo in the album . ( Edited to clarify the tap-and-hold gesture . )
You can control whether pressing the power button should put your mac to sleep or present a dialog with options ( sleep/restart/shut-down ) using the command . The following : will put it to sleep right away ( presumably your current setting ) and changing to will present you with the dialog . Pay attention to the fact that it 's not a per-user setting , and changes the behaviour for all users . Something to keep in mind if you share the device with others . From the man page ( explore it for other options ) : All changes made through pmset are saved in a persistent preferences file ( per-system , not per-user ) at / Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration / com.apple.PowerManagement.plist
It 's quite easy to see indeed . If the two images match ( left ) , all photos were uploaded to the Photo Stream . If they do n't match ( right ) , some pictures have n't uploaded yet . NB : Photo Stream will only work over Wi-Fi , syncing only the latest 1,000 pictures taken in the last 30 days .
<URL> Contact customer support via e-mail and hopefully you can get a refund .
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
At the moment you ca n't . My guess is it will be included in the next iOS update though .
Yes ! You can drag the text bubble bounding box ( the blue dots that you would use to resize the bubble ) over to the other side . This effectively over - " resizes " the bubble so it is mirrored .
Your statements are all true . Though the geotagging on the first iPhone was n't really precise since there was no built-in GPS : it used the GSM triangulation to localize the phone ( <URL> ) .
This was changed in Lion along with the introduction of Auto Save and Versions . Save As is still available by holding ⌥ alt whilst in the menus .
One option would be to save this script to in AppleScript Editor and give it a shortcut with <URL> . Without the try block there would be an error dialog if for example the selection was empty .
You do have to create a new shared album , but you can create the album from the contents of the existing album so you do n't need to find the images again manually . Open the album . Choose Select in the top right , then Select All in the top left . Tap Share in the bottom left , then create a new iCloud Photo Sharing album as usual . Once you 've created the shared album , you can delete the old album .
If you want to change the appearance of all the slides : While creating a new document , choose any template . From the menubar , select View > Show Master Slides . Select the layout you want to edit from the navigator pane on the left . On the Toolbar , click on Inspector ( " i " icon ) . Choose the second tab icon ( slide icon ) in the Inspector window . Click on Appearance . Here you can specify any background for the slide . It can be an image , a colour , a gradient or a tint . If you just want to change the appearance of the current slide , follow steps 4 to 6 . To change the style of text for all the slides : Follow steps 1 to 4 . Choose the capital " T " icon in the Inspector window . Select the text whose colour , font , etc. you want to change . In the inspector window , there are various properties like text colour , character spacing , etc. which you can change . You can change the font from the toolbar . To change the style of text for the current slide , just follow the steps without opening the master slide .
Directly no . You can go the indirect route . Get all the photos to a computer , clear the photo stream manually , then enroll the computer into Photo Stream to inject the photos back into the stream in whatever order you prefer . At that point , you can re-attach the iOS devices to the stream . You might want to poke at the iOS side ( restore or otherwise isolate the issue as it might be a software or network issue there - I 've tried to break photo stream with bad network connections - lots of photos taken when offline or switching network from WiFi to 3G and back while taking pictures and it seems pretty robust to me and unbreakable when the software is working properly )
With an Application such as <URL> navigate to where you 'll find a file called which contains the following : The DCIMLastFileNumber parameter is quite self explanatory . Set the number at which you want the counter to start at and restart the iPhone to apply the changes .
If you mount the share using terminal you can assign the mount point to a local directory . Source : Macworld Mac OS X Hints : <URL> create a directory -- the mountpoint -- where the contents of the mounted server will appear . The mount command should be more or less familar : The <URL> provide complete documentation .
You can use <URL> . This allows you to set the opacity of a window from the Window menu .
If you open the PDF in Preview on a Mac , you can drag/drop page thumbnails around ( hold option to copy a page ) and even drag a page from one PDF into another . This way you can use the print system 's " Save as PDF " feature to set anything as the first page . Alternatively switch from bookshelf view to list view , where you can see the filenames .
It 's rather easier than these solutions . Click the icon view beside the search and select the Albums tab at the top so the icons show albums rather than Artists or Composers . Then when you hover over an album you can click " Play Album " to play it . You can also double click the album to see all the songs making sure they are ordered by song number ( if necessary ) . This way you can also by command or shift clicking select multiple albums . Or you can show with the second icon ordered by album by artist . In this view an artist search will help :
You can tap on an area of the picture you are taking to adjust the image settings ( including the exposure ) to that area of the image .
To change stores you can do so on the iTunes Store : Click on your Account in the iTunes Store to go to your Account Page . Click " Change Country or Region " . Choose your Country or Region : Another alternative is to use Apple 's <URL> and change your address - next time you use iTunes it will ask you to change your region and verify your address details .
end question
start question
How do I check my Mac 's RAM ?
I 've had bad RAM that still allowed the machine to boot - a stick of memory in my Mac Pro apparently failed gracefully overnight . The first step would be to check system profiler to see if the memory is being recognized . If indeed it is , there 's a version of MemTest for OS X : <URL>
You can use terminal to read the File System Personality : Look for the fields named below : If the file system is case sensitive , you will see Case-sensitive Journaled HFS in the first pasted line and Mac OS Extended ( Case-sensitive , Journaled ) in the third . Disk Utility will also show you this from the info window for any File System it can see .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
I can not find a direct source to note when Apple started making audio output ports toslink enabled . But to answer your other questions : Almost all macs since 2006 do support this , and looking at the product page for each model will tell you exactly . If it supports toslink , it supports surround sound <URL> .
I believe the correct setting is found in the following location
You do n't get charged for app upgrades on iOS . You only get notification for free updates .
You can not at this time . The option to disable 3G no longer exists for the 4S . No word on why Apple disabled the feature . It may be a proactive move to dump old technology as the phone still supports 2G and will switch to the slower network if 3G is not found . There is a rather <URL> regarding this matter on Apple 's forums .
You can connect the iPad directly to your stereo using bluetooth . Or you can use AirPlay to stream audo to your iMac . However you can not record anything while doing this : While the " AirPlay - Bluetooth - HDMI " switch is on , an alert appears if you try to record an Audio Recorder or Guitar Amp Touch Instrument , or if you try to record a sound with the Sampler . You can turn the switch off from the alert . From : <URL>
If you 're using iTunes to play music , it 's actually much easier than that , and does n't require any other software . In iTunes , click on the Airplay icon next to the volume control , click " Multiple " and select the devices you wish to play through . <URL>
Sorry for the self-answer , but I found a way to do it quickly using just the iPhone and no third-party software . In iOS 4.3 , do the following : Open Camera.app Click the photo thumbnail to view the photo library Click Camera Roll to view all photos There 's a capsule button at the top that says ' All | Photos | Videos ' . Select videos Press the Export icon - you can now tap on videos to select them before hitting Delete . Not sure why this functionality is not available from Photos.app , but there you go . Thanks for all the other answers .
You can see the current RAM configuration in a visual overview by : Going to the menu If you 'd like further detail , open the from the tab of . This can also be accessed by holding ⌥ while the menu is open , then selecting .
If we are speaking only about Screen Sharing ( SS ) ( forgetting ARD ) , it is working as follows : First , there is a daemon configuration file ( / System/Library/LaunchDaemons / com.apple.screensharing.plist ) . It contains a record that tells launchd to start SS Server ( and then SS Agent ) every time when someone connects to port 5900 . The server is located at / System/Library/CoreServices / RemoteManagement/screensharingd . bundle , the agent is at / System/Library/CoreServices / RemoteManagement/ScreensharingAgent . bundle . The SS Server is the main part of SS Service . It performs network interacting , implements used protocols , performs image encoding , authentication and so on . In turn , SS Agent impersonates current user and handles things like providing image of user screen , " pressing " keys , " moving " mouse . ( AFAIR , this separation began with Mac OS X 10.7 . Formerly the service was monolithic , was named AppleVNCServer and has been always running while the " Screen Sharing " switch in System Preferences was on ) . SS Service also can start the following helpers as needed : SSPasteboardHelper ( located in SS Agent bundle ) -- pastes pasteboard data to system pasteboard as it arrives from the client , SSAssistanceCursor -- appeared just recently , I 'm wondering what it is for , SSFileCopyReceiver / SSFileCopySender ( in SS Server bundle ) -- is used for transmitting/receiving files . As for protocols , SS Service uses the same RFB protocol as all VNC clients , but with some specific extensions . The server reports that it supports protocol version 3.889 ( most other servers report versions 3.3 to 3.8 ) . It also supports most common codecs -- raw , ZLib , ZRLE -- as well as Apple 's custom ones ( black-and-white and grayscale ZLib , and " adaptive " codec that uses JPEG-like compression algorithm ) . Also there are many Apple-specific protocol extensions , implementing drag-and-drop , files transmission , automatic pasteboard synchronization , transmission of gesture events , and so on . This is a very general explanation , but if you ask a more specific question , I 'll be glad to help .
You can try to run a proxy server locally , and change your Network preferences to point to that proxy , and check in the proxy logs to see if the app sends its request through it . I would suggest using <URL> . It 's quite easy to use : just change our proxy settings in Network preferences to either HTTP proxy or SOCKS proxy , and you should start seeing outgoing requests if you use your browser . Once you do , try using your custom app to see if it sends its request through the proxy or not . Best of luck .
I 've had bad RAM that still allowed the machine to boot - a stick of memory in my Mac Pro apparently failed gracefully overnight . The first step would be to check system profiler to see if the memory is being recognized . If indeed it is , there 's a version of MemTest for OS X : <URL>
This is pretty much impossible . Each program does n't directly use battery power - they all use the CPU , which uses battery power . But every other hardware component uses power as well - the screen , GPU , hard drive/SSD , etc. . And of course you 're not just running one program at a time , you 're typically running several , plus all the background processes for the OS and other services . This is further complicated by how the OS and CPU allocate resources - despite how it appears , everything is n't running simultaneously , the CPU just switches between tasks every quickly , giving the appearance of everything running concurrently . On top of that , modern CPUs can change the amount of power they draw depending on the tasks going on . So the effect that each program has on battery life depends on a lot of factors , most of which are n't easily measurable . The closest you could get might be tracking the CPU utilization of each program over time , and making an estimate based on the battery drain over that period . However that would be a very rough estimate , and not very accurate for any useful purpose I can think of .
Try running Keychains Repair Tool by opening Keychain from you Utilities folder , then from the menu bar choose Keychain Access , then Keychain First Aid , then enter your password , verify then start it . If there are any problems click Repair then Start . ( via <URL> ) If that does n't work then try Resetting your Keychain . Via <URL> you just need to do these steps : Open Keychain Access , which is in the Utilities folder within the Applications folder . From the Keychain Access menu , choose Preferences . Click General , then click Reset My Default Keychain . Authenticate with your account login password . Quit Keychain Access then Restart your computer .
Sorry , but currently it 's not possible . Thunderbolt ports on Macs can output a Mini Displayport signal , but the Thunderbolt Display can only receive a Thunderbolt signal , nothing else . It 's possible that an adapter to do this could be released in the future , but IMO that 's unlikely or if it happens will be quite expensive .
➙ ➙ : Turn off Make sure ( at the bottom of that same screen ) is on Your iDevice will no longer automatically correct misspelled words , but it will highlight them for you . As far as I know this is the only way to have spell-checking on without the Auto-Correct feature .
No RAM or processor replacement in the Mac Mini 2014 An <URL> teardown reveals this . And @Pol posted a link to <URL> were you can read about the soldered RAM . The processor and the RAM is soldered onto the motherboard . Even in a clean room , a soldering iron and a steady hand , it would be nearly impossible . You are not allowed to do this on your own , your warranty will expire on this one . You can replace your RAM yourself , Apple has even provided a guide on how to do it on similar hardware ( 2012 model ) . Here you can find the guide : <URL> . No problems with your warranty .
I 'm assuming by " desktop toolbar " , you mean the bar at the top of the screen ( properly called the <URL> ) , please correct me if I 've made the wrong assumption . You can add the eject item by opening in Finder , and double-clicking the file named . It should appear in the menu bar right away . To add the battery indicator , open the Energy Saver pane of System Preferences , and check the Show battery status in menu bar box , near the bottom of the window .
end question
start question
StartupSound.prefPane on new iMacs ?
I use the Startup Sound prefpane on a 2010 iMac with 10.6.5 and it does its job beautifully . Try reinstalling the prefpane . <URL>
I 've always used <URL> on a bootable disk to do memory testing . Not sure what you mean by " burn in " though . Other than testing for stability , bad block and general good-functioning of your RAM there is n't anything else you need to do . Using the RAM does n't actually make it perform any better or worse than when it was initially installed in your machine . Burn Memtest86 to a CD . Boot from the CD . Let it cycle through all your blocks and it will produce a report . There 's an OS X build of Memtest that 's <URL> but I 've never used it . Ca n't speak to how well it works . There 's also <URL> and it 's available as a <URL> package : To install it : Again , have n't used it so I ca n't speak about how well it works , but it 's a userspace program so it means you do n't have to reboot your machine to get it to work . I 'd probably start with that and if it does n't give you a suitable report , move on to Memtest86 on a CD .
There are several disadvantages : Most internet posts describing how to reinstall OS X miss the hardware specific diagnostic boot image that is stored on Recovery HD ( this has changed starting with El Capitan 10.11 ) . You will lose the iLife apps if you do n't first boot the factory OS and claim those redemptions to an Apple ID . The recovery boot is n't a deal breaker if you do n't mind using a generic internet recovery boot image when needed . Or you can find and reinstall the following folder on the ' Recovery HD ' : So , your call on what happens when pressing and holding the 'D ' button at startup . Losing iMovie , Photos ( or iPhotos if the Mac shipped with that as well/instead ) , GarageBand does n't matter if you purchased the hardware under a DEP program or do n't care to use those or already have them or do n't care to spend money later to buy them as needed .
At the very least , make sure you sync your old one to your Mac before you sell it . When you sync , it should copy purchased items from your iPod to your Mac . If you have time , back up your iPod : Connect it to iTunes , then right-click ( or control-click ) and select Back Up . You can then restore your new iPod from that backup . This will restore your mail accounts , sync settings and app data to the new iPod . It will not restore the correct locations of your apps or home screen folder contents .
To find out what 's in your PATH , open a Terminal window and run this command : . The output is a colon-separated list of directories , the contents of which you can run without specifying the full path . Since / usr/bin is in my path , I can run the command simply by typing instead of the full . Also , you do n't have to move the executable into one of the listed PATH directories . Other options include Leave the executable where it is , and symlink to it from one of the PATH directories Add a directory to your PATH by explicitly setting it in a login script for your shell
Turned out it was n't a problem with the certificate after all , it was that the application signature used by parental controls changed when the certificate changed . This was fixed by manually editing the parental controls file to contain the new signature .
Any computer that shipped with Lion or Mountain Lion has <URL> , which is a very limited installer that downloads the full OS from Apple and installs it . To get into the Recovery mode , just boot while holding down commandR , and it will prompt you for the rest . However you can also do a direct clone of your existing disk to your SSD , which will avoid having to download the installer ( it 's about 4 GB ) or reinstall all your programs and data . You 'll need an external enclosure to put one of the drives in . You can do this with the built-in <URL> , or a tool like <URL> ( the free version of which suffices for this task ) .
The following conditions must be met in order for dictation to work : You <URL> . You should n't be using audio on your device ( e.g. if you are on a FaceTime call , the button will not appear . ) You must be focused in an text field which is formatted for normal text ( more about this below . ) Developers ( and even <URL> ) can choose which keyboard layout will be visible to the user , via the <URL> property . <URL> of several different keyboard layouts and what they look like on an iPhone ( without dictation ) . The dictation button is available in the following keyboard types : Standard ( UIKeyboardTypeASCIICapable ) But is not available in the following : Telephone ( UIKeyboardTypePhonePad ) URL ( UIKeyboardTypeURL ) Email ( UIKeyboardTypeEmailAddress ) Zipcode ( UIKeyboardTypeNumberPad )
It seems the answer is ' not huge , but noticeable ' , maybe 15-20 % . I 'm not sure what the price tag difference is off hand , but if you 're working on graphics apps , games , video - get what you can afford , with the iMac 's not being upgradeable in that sense , what can it hurt to do so ? With an all in one I 'm a big believe in buying what you can afford to get . That said - if you 're going to replace the machine next year ? Do n't worry so much .
Windows of applications are n't normally called instances on OS X . You can open new instances with , but there 's no way to do that from the UI . Applications with multiple instances also have multiple Dock icons . If you actually meant that , you could add an action for it in Alfred : There 's no standard way to open a new window with or AppleScript though . You 'd have to use different terminology for each application .
There is no " official " way of changing it , though OSX is customizable with 3rd party apps . I researched around a bit and found out though that most of these apps wo n't work with Lion . Perhaps as time passes by Lion updates for these apps will be released , and perhaps you will be able to make Lion look however you want . Here is a <URL> with some themes for both Mac OS and iOS . They provide a theme for Lion , the only one I could find . Nevertheless , I should clarify : Aqua is still there . The term " Aqua " refers to the whole UI of Mac OS X , including that of Lion . Over the years it <URL> , and it happened again in Lion . I too thought the Leopard-style aqua was better , but trust me , you will like the Lion Aqua . Scrollbars hide automatically and they are meant to be discrete : having the blue scrollbars back would just defeat the purpose . Just the same , Lion tries to streamline elements such as tab views and progress bars that were perhaps to " obtrusive " to the eye , or called to much attention . Im typing this from a machine with Lion , and can tell you you will love the new UI whenever you get your mac . Just give it a try ! :) Designers at Apple did a great job to my opinion . Hope it helps !
To enable a retina eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist . Just above Place this : Then , log out or make a copy of the app so that OS X will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
I use the Startup Sound prefpane on a 2010 iMac with 10.6.5 and it does its job beautifully . Try reinstalling the prefpane . <URL>
No , this does not work . I started a background recording with DropVox , then switched over to PlainText and tapped the dictation button and dictated a sentence . I then switched back to DropVox and it looked like it was still recording ( the counter was still going up ) . I stopped it , it uploaded the file , but when I listened to it the start and end were there , but the part from when I started dictating to when I opened DropVox back up was n't . Very strange , but ultimately the answer is it does n't work . If you 're curious , the resultant audio file can be found <URL> . " And it looks like the timer 's still going " was said after DropVox opened back up .
<URL> by <URL> While the app does n't let you directly browse artists and albums , it definitely uses a <URL> and lets you focus on finding the new music -- by not standing in your way and getting a bunch of recommended tracks based on a given artist seed . Each preview lasts for a whole minute which I think is enough to form an opinion ( and bookmark the track ) . Bookmarked tracks can be re-listened at any time ( with the same time constraint ) . The buy icon link is small and non-obtrusive . Out of ten tracks I have listened to , I loved eight and two of them were by my two other favorite bands that the app had no way of knowing . I also came to like the " passive discovery " workflow where I hear new music without having to browse through the bands and tap tap tap . Last.fm radio was never even close to this . And SuperSonic is free . The last bit that got me was adjustable recommendations popularity , danceability , tempo and the ability to ignore these settings altogether .
From the Podcasts view ( left tab ) , press the Edit button at the top left ( you may need to scroll up to see it ) . Each podcast will have an ( x ) button in its top left corner . Hit that button ( it 's small and can be tricky , but it works ) to remove the podcast . Use the Done button at the top left when you 're finished editing .
Yes . Apple checks your new app submission with the validator as described in <URL> The iOS 9 features were allowed on Sep 11 2015 per <URL> and you are allowed to use iOS 9 only SDK but you 're not forced to use them exclusively . Any non-deprecated API are safe to use .
There is no Trash any more - instead there is Recently Deleted , same as on the iPhone etc. which will countdown 30 days before final deletion unless purged manually or recovered beforehand . In OS X 10.10 Yosemite , you can access it from the File Menu > Show Recently Deleted . In OS X 10.11 El Capitan , there is no menu item , but it can be accessed from the " Albums " tab , where you 'll find the recently deleted folder in the familiar shape of the trash bin of yore . You exit , once finished , by clicking any other category , or if you do n't have the Sidebar open , any Header - Albums etc. .
As @iampearce answered in the comments : If you 're manually syncing , grab the file from in iTunes and drag it onto the iPod itself . This will force it to copy over , and you 'll be able to see it happen in the progress bar .
You have to add the following line to your Preferences → User Settings :
end question
start question
iOS 4.2 - What 's there for the iPhone 3GS ?
Among other things : Free " Find my iPhone " ( do n't need MobileMe ) -- > this requires an iPhone 4 Safari allows you to search inside the page You can assign different SMS/MMS/ALERTS to different phonebook contacts AirPlay / AirPrint ? A volume slider control in the Multitaskbar New icon for Voice Memos - Anything else ? UPDATE : There 's a trick to use the Find my iPhone in a 3GS or similar . I found out that if you create everything from an iPhone 4 ( and/or presumably an iPod TOuch latest gen ) , you can later go to your 3Gs and enter the same data and it will work . :)
An alias contains two pieces of information : a unique identifier of the file it links to , and the path and file name of the file it links to . If you rename or move a file , and then create a new file with the path and file name that the file originally had , then any alias that linked to the original file now links to the new file . However , if you rename or move a file without replacing it , and then invoke an alias , the alias is updated to point to the new path and file name , making use of the unique identifier to do so . A symbolic link , on the other hand , does not contain a unique identifier to a file , and would appear as broken if the file is renamed or moved and not replaced with a file of the same path and file name . Your choice should depend on which scenario suits you best .
. ibooks files are a special Apple-only multi-touch version of the epub standard . They can only be created using the iBooks Author app , and they can only be read by the iBooks app on an iOS device or a Mac running OS 10.9 or higher . The main attraction of the . ibooks format for authors is that it can easily incorporate a large variety of interactive features via widgets . The Apple list is at <URL> and a 3rd party list is at <URL> . epub is an open standard which can be produced by a number of apps ( including Apple 's Pages ) and can be read on any platform using a variety of apps ( including Apple 's iBooks ) . There is no way to convert . epub to . ibooks , other than to put the content into iBooks Author and republish it from that app . Starting with version 2.3 of June 2015 , iBooks Author can also produce . epub format , as long as one of the . epub templates is used .
When the user tries to install the update , the app store will alert the user saying something like " you must have iOS5 to install this update . " . The user will still be able to use the current version they they have , though .
You could : Sell it : <URL> is a good place to sell old gadgets . Use it as a regular iPod Touch ( I gave my old iPhone to my teen to watch iTunes U videos for school ) . <URL> Test Custom Apps Turn it into a neat personal project ( remote control cars/planes , house automation ) . Blog about it too . Donate it Replace your car stereo ( this one is fun ) . Make it your portable DVR ; load it with your favorite shows and watch them when you have time ( I know you can do this with you new iPhone , but it 'll save on battery life if you use a second device ) . High tech alarm clock ( I know , that one 's silly ) . Sorry if I repeated any suggestions . I was doing a quick brainstorm . It 's fun finding new ways to use old gadgets . Good luck and let us know what you do .
Just download the free ( ! ) <URL> and then you can simply share and sync all your desktop bookmarks to your iPhone/iPad .
They are listed beside each sound . If we look at AirDrop for example , iOS will list : Pulse ( Default ) . All sounds will have this ( Default ) suffix attached to them .
<URL> ( Free ) A great free FTP client . This is my go-to application . Anytime I need FTP access , I use Cyberduck . It 's not quite as lightweight as Fugu , but it adds a lot more functionality than Fugu . I also really like the Growl integration with Cyberduck . <URL> ( Free ) Awesome little FTP client . As I noted above , this is a lightweight FTP client . It is great for simple FTP transfers and browsing . I do like the dual panel navigation . EDIT : I forgot to add these . <URL> ( Free ) I have n't actually used Filezilla extensively , but from what I 've seen of it , I really like it . I downloaded it and played with it for a bit and I really like the tabbed connections . I also like the ability to jump to a path easily . <URL> ( Free , $ 29 Upgrade ) A free FTP/FTP-SSL client . I do n't usually use RBrowser because a $ 29 upgrade is necessary to unlock other protocols ( Local , FTP/SSL/TLS , SFTP-SSH ) . I do like the Site Manager . It 's a handy little thing to have . I searched and came up with some other free FTP clients : <URL> ( Free ) - Firefox extension The one downside I see is that this is for Firefox . The website does n't make it clear how it works with Firefox , so I assume it is an extension . <URL> ( Free ) This one relies on <URL> Since I do n't know anything about MacFUSE , I do n't know if this is good or bad . <URL> ( $ 34 ) By Panic I have never used Transmit before , but I have used Coda and I definitely would recommend anything from Panic . The only reason I have n't used this because of the $ 34 price tag . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , just found it when searching . <URL> ( $ 24 per user ) An amazing program with a long , long , long mac heritage . It 's way up there with Transmit by Panic and Interarchy as a file transfer program loved by long time Mac power users . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , but looks good from the screenshots . I really like the fact that it looks like Finder . I may have to give this one a try . <URL> ( Free ) Just searching around and found yet another one ... It looks pretty nice , except it 's no longer supported . However , you can still download it .
I understand you do n't want to install Windows . However , thats what all Mac-users at our company do ( with vmWare fusion ) .
This question was answered by updating to iOS 7.1 . I 've since turned all the features of the phone back on ( e.g. , background app refresh , notifications , use my location , all the processes that I tuned off trying to troubleshoot ) and my phone just lasted three days with normal use .
As of October 2011 when this was first asked , there has been no official answer stated . With the 3GS , Apple officially stated " the S is for speed . " There has been no comparable explanation given for the 4S . HOWEVER , in an interview at the All Things D conference , Apple CEO Tim Cook <URL> , " some people might say it stands for Siri or speed . We were thinking of Siri when we did it . " So the official answer is that the S in iPhone 4S stands for ... Siri
My understanding is that there currently is not one , although <URL> that one is coming up soon . The best place for " official " information is the <URL> . More direct/recent updates can be found by following various team members on Twitter . <URL> is a good example . If other legitimate groups released anything solid , you will hear about it through them anyway ( as is the case here : Chronic Dev Team seem reliable too ) . There are already fake sites springing up in anticipation of the next release ; the important thing is not to use anything that has n't been confirmed by them or that you have to pay for . Additionally , if you have saved your SHSH blobs using Cydia on an already-jailbroken phone or <URL> , you can downgrade and jailbreak the old version . Normally this means you can upgrade using PwnageTool without losing your jailbreak , although I do n't think the Dev-Team has released something compatible with 4.1 yet . UPDATE There is now a full jailbreak for 4.1 and later on 3GS . BigBoss maintains a <URL> which may be useful for updates at-a-glance . My understanding is that all current devices are now able to be jailbroken forever ( greenpois0n/limera1n exploit ) , but iPhone 4 and later model 3GS are sometimes tethered on iOS new releases ( as of this edit : not tethered on 4.1 , but currently - hopefully not for long - tethered on 4.2 )
This sounds like the app <URL> which is available on Mac OS X and iOS . It allows you to use a mixture of natural language and spreadsheet/calculator functions to perform easily readable equations .
I decided to pay the $ 45 for the Synk update . I figured it would take more than an hour or two to try to get rsync to work with two-way syncing . It was worth $ 45 to me to not have to spend that time and to use a solution I already know will work .
Is there somewhere that gives more than just a cursory explanation of how to use it ? Probably not - Apple 's not big on providing manuals when they do n't think they 're necessary . For example , when does it chose to download podcasts ? Probably hourly . There 's no option to change this that I can find . Can you force it to update the podcasts without going one by one and clicking on the download link ? It downloads new episodes for subscribed podcasts automatically . Will it download over cellular ? Yep , it does . It also streams over cellular , and well enough that I did n't notice that that was what it was doing at first . ( I 'm on Verizon 3G . ) Can it download the podcasts but play through the normal music app ? Nope . It 's totally separate . ( There 's rumor/suspicion that the Music app wo n't even have a Podcasts section in iOS 6 . )
You 'd need an adapter <URL> to make it fit , but it should work .
No . The white iPhone 3GS does not have a white face , just a white back cover .
Do you look at the iPhone 3GS at the back when making video call ? Correct . Since the iPhone 3GS has no camera on the side of display , you have to turn it around and talk to the non-display side to have your face show up in a video chat . Less than idea , for certain .
Unlike the newer iPhone models , the first iPhone did not include UMTS/HSDPA - also referred to as <URL> - but only GSM/GPRS/EDGE , which are referred to as <URL> . The terms 2G , 3G and 4G refer to the x ' th generation of a cellular wireless standard . Therefore , you can search for cases that refer to the iPhone 2G . If you want to be abosultely sure , use the model identifier number when searching : A1203 . Terms used for the first iPhone include : original iPhone iPhone 2G iPhone EDGE iPhone 1 Here 's an overview of celluar standards from <URL> :
Among other things : Free " Find my iPhone " ( do n't need MobileMe ) -- > this requires an iPhone 4 Safari allows you to search inside the page You can assign different SMS/MMS/ALERTS to different phonebook contacts AirPlay / AirPrint ? A volume slider control in the Multitaskbar New icon for Voice Memos - Anything else ? UPDATE : There 's a trick to use the Find my iPhone in a 3GS or similar . I found out that if you create everything from an iPhone 4 ( and/or presumably an iPod TOuch latest gen ) , you can later go to your 3Gs and enter the same data and it will work . :)
end question
start question
How to set screen resolution with a keyboard shortcut on Retina MBP ?
<URL> ( 4 USD ) Based on your description , QuickRes appears to perfectly accomplish what you 're trying to do . You can set multiple ( up to 8 ) resolutions in its preferences and assign keyboard shortcuts to them . To access preferences , launch QuickRes and Ctrl-click ( right-click ) the icon that will appear in the menu bar . Note that Mac will give you an error and claim that it is from an " unidentified developer " ; simply Ctrl-click the app 's icon in Finder and click open . Screenshots are below : QuickRes options . Click Preferences . Also , after you set resolutions , you may simply click this icon normally to toggle between resolutions . Resolutions pane of QuickRes preferences . You may add more preferred resolutions in " Advanced . " Also , because this was taken on an iMac , you will have different resolution options for your MacBook Pro Retina . Shortcuts pane of QuickRes preferences . Right now , my shortcut is Command-Option-R . You can change this , of course . In the Advanced pane , you can set how many resolutions you wish to toggle . The shortcut only works when you have QuickRes open ( it 's a lightweight app , so do n't worry about resources ) , so I would recommend selecting " Open QuickRes on Login " to get it out of your way .
You can change the shortcuts from System Preferences : They can also be changed with defaults . The shortcut format is described in the <URL> article .
I have found a way through BetterTouchTool to do the following : Activate Keyboard Viewer by a shortcut Close Keyboard Viewer by another shortcut Toggle Keyboard Viewer by one shortcut ( no need for the previous two ) I also uploaded the AppleScript for convenience Platform : rMBP Mountain Lion OSX 10.8 Activate Keyboard Viewer by a shortcut Launch BetterTouchTool Add keyboard shortcut Add Predefined action >> Open Application/File/Script ... Navigate to Macintosh HD/System/Library / Input Methods / Select KeyboardViewer Now you have a keyboard shortcut to activate the viewer without an additional script . HOWEVER , I noticed that pressing the red X button does not actually quit the application , which means that the keyboard viewer will only be activated once . So you need to create a script to quit the program . To fix this problem : Close Keyboard Viewer by another keyboard shortcut Open Automator Choose Application as type of document Add RunAppleScript Where it says ( * Your script goes here * ) , replace it with Compile and save as in documents or anywhere you want ( I moved it to the same location as KeyboardViewer ) Open BetterTouchTool Add keyboard shortcut Add Predefined action >> Open Application/File/Script ... Locate the application file you just saved You now have a way to quit the KeyBoard viewer for good once its activated . Use it instead of the red X button . Until I figure out why the keyboard viewer does not fully quit when you press the X button , this should be your solution . EDIT I have figured out a way to TOGGLE the keyboard viewer !! TOGGLE KEYBOARD VIEWER by one keyboard shortcut same process as before but the code is changed : Open Automator Choose Application as type of document Add RunAppleScript Where it says ( * Your script goes here * ) , replace it with Compile and save as in documents or anywhere you want ( I moved it to the same location as KeyboardViewer ) Open BetterTouchTool Add keyboard shortcut Add Predefined action >> Open Application/File/Script ... Locate the application file you just saved Now the Keyboard Viewer is toggled and you dont even need to assign multiple shortcuts ! Link for AppleScript I uploaded the app online for faster access rather than doing the whole coding steps above ( just activate this app through BetterTouchTool ) However , since im not an identified publisher , your OS may block running this app , depending on your security preferences . So if you prefer to not run apps from unidentified publishers , just follow the steps above to create your own app ! Link to file : <URL> Hope it helps anyone as it helped me :)
I could n't find a way to disable it either , but if you click on the shortcut key combination , you can change it to something you 'll never press . ( I used shift-control-option-command-space )
Insert a comment ⌘ + OPTION+A Turn track changes on or off ⌘ + SHIFT+E From <URL>
Save in AppleScript Editor and assign a shortcut in <URL> or <URL> :
Reminders You can create a service using the Automator : Open Automator.app Select Service For Reminders : Add action Ask for Text to prompt for a new To Do Add action New Reminders Item Save Service Create Shortcut in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Keyboard & #x 2192 ; Keyboard Shortcuts & #x 2192 ; Services & #x 2192 ; Text Notes See Mohamad Elwan 's answer for notes
It wo n't work . This <URL> outlines the various issues : Unfortunately , the simple answer is no . The graphics card would have issues running the display if you were even able to install it . The Retina display MacBook Pro also has different connectors and dimensions then the regular Macbook Pro and therefore not fit and not connect . The firmware for you computer will also not scale the resolution and render properly so you would have a 1440 x 900 resolution displaying on a 2880 x 1800 display which would only take up 1/4 of the display . As the answerer says , your biggest problem is the graphics card . The mobile card on your Late 2011 MacBook Pro just is n't designed to push double the pixels at an acceptable framerate .
I ended up using <URL> to do this . Overall I found it to be the most configurable . Here is a screenshot of my configuration , whereas Cmd + Ctrl + W moves a window to the next monitor . If you have a 3 monitor setup ( 2 external monitors and the Mac monitor ) , you can set up the " Move Window to Next Monitor " to the right by doing the following : set up a new shortcut , specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the Predefined Action click Attach Additional Action and again specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the action Voila , you can now move a window to the monitor on the right ( a little hacky I know , but it works until the developer of BTT updates the app ) The only shortcoming of BetterTouchTool is poor Lion support ( not all features are available ) but it is available as an alpha release . This specific keyboard shortcut should work fine in Lion with the stable version , I reckon .
You can use an app like <URL> , available for free in the App Store , to set the Display to its highest resolution , as well as other available resolutions . Note that there is a paid Pro version too , for $ 1.99 USD , which offers AppleScript Support , Retina Resolutions which displays all resolutions with a mouse click and Bookmarks for Quick Access . I 've used the regular version for over 3 years now on my 15 " Mid 2013 MacBook Pro with Retina Display and it 's done all I 've needed without upgrading to the Pro version . That said , you might find the additional Pro features worth the $ 1.99 USD .
<URL> ( 4 USD ) Based on your description , QuickRes appears to perfectly accomplish what you 're trying to do . You can set multiple ( up to 8 ) resolutions in its preferences and assign keyboard shortcuts to them . To access preferences , launch QuickRes and Ctrl-click ( right-click ) the icon that will appear in the menu bar . Note that Mac will give you an error and claim that it is from an " unidentified developer " ; simply Ctrl-click the app 's icon in Finder and click open . Screenshots are below : QuickRes options . Click Preferences . Also , after you set resolutions , you may simply click this icon normally to toggle between resolutions . Resolutions pane of QuickRes preferences . You may add more preferred resolutions in " Advanced . " Also , because this was taken on an iMac , you will have different resolution options for your MacBook Pro Retina . Shortcuts pane of QuickRes preferences . Right now , my shortcut is Command-Option-R . You can change this , of course . In the Advanced pane , you can set how many resolutions you wish to toggle . The shortcut only works when you have QuickRes open ( it 's a lightweight app , so do n't worry about resources ) , so I would recommend selecting " Open QuickRes on Login " to get it out of your way .
That would be the Ctrl-Left or Right Arrow to slide between full screen applications .
From the <URL> : 13 " : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors 15 " : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors
Ran into the same issue . Followed YouTube video of installation in order to figure out the following : Once the disc is booted , select Reinstall OS X . You will then reach the screen where you can not see the Continue button . Using your keyboard , press TAB followed by SPACE . You should then reach the User Agreement screen . Press TAB , TAB , TAB and SPACE . Click the Agree button which should be visible . Click the installation drive and press TAB , TAB and SPACE . This should get you to the point where Lion is installing .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts and there will be various shortuc setups for almost anything . If you see something that is not listed , Make a service in Automator and add it as shortcut : Here you see the service in Automator . It ai n't always have to be an AppleScript . You can chose other services from the Menu on the left . And here is a screenshot of enabling the service and assigning a shortcut by double clicking the shortucts on right , and pressing a combination of keys . <URL> is a full tutorial on services and automation as a little bonus to the question .
If you are very lucky it is just dirt and can be wiped off but usually it is permanent and there is n't much way to avoid them . I have seen it happen even when a soft cloth is used to cover the keys when the lid is closed . In fact that may even make it worse as the cloth adds thickness to the sandwich and may make the contact between the high points of the screen and the keys firmer . The screen surface of an anti-glare display just is n't very hard - glossy glass is harder but can still be marked . Using a quality micro fibre cloth with a 70 % water/30 % isopropyl alcohol solution is a good way to clean the marks off if they are not permanent . I have been using the cleaning solution provided by my optician for my glasses for years with no ill effects , and I love the iKlear blue microfibre cloths ( for both glasses and displays ) . They call it " terry " as opposed to their " chamois " cloth .
I just ran into this exact issue the other day . Try <URL> : it 's a free app that captures screenshots in both 1x and 2x simultaneously ( or , alternatively , just one or the other ) . And it 's a " true " 1x capture : it redraws at 1x rather than taking the 2x version and scaling it down . It also supports the same types of captures as the built-in Grab.app -- full screen , timed screen , selection , or window -- and you can save either to the clipboard or a file .
I used to work as an Apple Hardware Technician , and the biggest non-damage related issue I 've seen with those machines is usually the battery ( which is not technically user-replaceable ) . I 'd make sure that it runs for at least 3-4 hours on a full charge . Also make sure that the optical drive works , because I 've seen a number of those go out , as well , but that can be said for any notebook computer . You will also want to check for the normal stuff : Impact to the casing , cracked screen , liquid damage , etc. . That seems like a pretty good deal , however . It looks like the average price on eBay is around $ 600 , and that machine will have plenty of power for your purposes . Heck , I still do development on a 2009 Macbook and it works great . For future reference , you can always find a listing of the open repair extensions ( which are basically known-issues ) at <URL> .
You can set up a custom shortcut , for example a key , for that purpose . Open System Prefrences , go to Keyboard - > Screen Shots ( or navigate to the Screen Shot-options ) , and double click on the shortcuts you want to change to change them to the keys you use less frequently . If you have a huge keyboard like me , you can for example set the F5 and F6 to be the shortcuts . Here is a screen shot of the settings window where you set the shortcut ( captured with those as well ! ) The " Copy " - screenshots are the ones with Control + Shift .
In order to assign a keyboard shortcut to this script , you could create a service in Automator . You must change to . Then add and paste your script . Save it on . Once saved , you must go to and you can find out under . Assign your preferred shortcut there .
end question
start question
How to mirror MacBook Pro screen to Apple TV ?
If your MBP is early 2011 or newer and there 's an Apple TV on the same wifi network as you , you should see an icon that looks like a TV in the menu bar . Click it and you 'll get a dropdown menu listing all the available Apple TVs ( in case there 's more than one ) . Click yours and you should be good to go ! If your MBP is older than early 2011 , you 'll need a third-party utility of some sort . If you 're willing to shell out $ 15 , I 've heard great things about <URL> .
I do n't think it 'll work . According to the Apple TV 's <URL> , playing protected content ( which I imagine means the one you 'll get from iTunes rentals and Netflix ) requires <URL> , so using a converter box probably wo n't work . At least the ones I 've found online after doing a quick search specifically say they wo n't work with HDCP .
You should be able to do this via Ethernet or wireless , depending on whether you want to buy a wireless dongle for your TV or whether you have the Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air . If you have the <URL> , you should be able to follow the instructions found <URL> : Set up the Sharing - The first step is to set up sharing on the host Mac . Head to Set up the client - make sure your TV uses DHCP General instructions from <URL> : To set up Internet sharing : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences and click Sharing . Select Internet Sharing . Choose the Internet connection you want to share from the " Share your connection from " pop-up menu . For example , if you 're connected to the Internet over Ethernet , choose Ethernet . Select how you want to share your Internet connection in the " To computers using " list . For example , if you want to share your Internet connection over AirPort , select AirPort . If you share your Internet connection using AirPort , click AirPort Options and give your network a name and password . Either approach should work - it 's most likely a matter of the hardware that you have ( or are willing to acquire ) . Getting the USB Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air is likely to be cheaper ( and of more use long-term ) than a dongle for the TV .
Apparently not much these days unless you want to play standard definition content or heavily mod the thing . See here for more info on making it into a useful device for that purpose ( Kodi can be configured to stream media from those services you mentioned ) : <URL>
Do you happen to have an Apple TV ? If so , that would be how I 'd do it , using Airplay . If not , then any Apple TV ( 2nd generation and above ) supports Airplay and you already have the cable ( i.e. HDMI to HDMI ) that you need to connect it to your HDTV . The advantage of this is that you also get all the benefits of having the Apple TV as well , not to mention the fact you wo n't have your iPad or MBP tethered with a cable ( or cables ) to your HDTV ( i.e. the mirroring happens via WiFi and you 're able to have the iPad or MBP anywhere you want while mirroring ) . If your question is about connecting these devices to any HDTV that you may need to connect to ( i.e. not a single one at your home , but to various models in various locations ) or you do not want/need an Apple TV , then I 'm not aware of a single solution that will pass both video and audio from both devices , but perhaps someone else will have a solution . [ EDIT ] Just checked and Apple are selling <URL> 3rd generation Apple TVs for $ 59 . At that price , it 'd be hard to warrant spending the money on cables and/or adaptors , unless you intend to carry them with you in your travels . You can also buy brand new Apple TV 3 units from places like <URL> who still have them in stock ( since they 've been superseded ) .
In my experience I would have to say the glossy . Even though the resolutions are the same , I really think that the glossy has much better color reproductions and looks more natural . The anti-glare tends to dull the colors , making it more difficult to judge when making adjustments . In fact , both my wife and I went with the glossy earlier this year for exactly this reason ( photo editing ) . She has a lot more experience with photoshop than I , and she was blown away by the difference in color between the two .
The only super major differences the 1st Gen Apple TV 's has from the new ones is the ability to store Movies , Music , Content , etc because they have a physical hard drive in them for doing those things . The other things is that they can connect to TV 's through Red , Blue , Green Component Cables . They also do not support Airplay with out a hack or a software fix . Also , the newest Apple TV , the 3rd Gen , allows for 1080p HD playback , where the older ones only support 720p HD playback . There are also a few other minor differences in size , power consumption , software options/OS and so on . The new Apple TV 's do not have hard drives or Component Cable outputs and support Airplay out of the box . Airplay is probably the biggest feature that makes people who do n't want to hack to jump ship to the newer box . It is pretty cool . The 1080 HD playback is nice , but depending on your TV , may or may not be noticeable/important . Some people like the older ones also because they can be hacked and used as linux computers ( <URL> ) with actual storage and since they can also store things on them , you can take it with you and have videos/music on it and not require internet for streaming your content . Though the biggest reason is most likely the hack-ability of them , they are tiny computers with a decent amount of power . And since they are n't sold any more and are still sought after , that would explain their above average price . The new Apple TV 's require internet of some kind or at least a local network for stream video and movies and data from a computer or the internet . They are also significantly smaller too , the older Apple TVs are much larger . You can see all the differences on their wiki page , it lays out the differences in features between the devices and even talks about most of the hacks that are available . Very informative . <URL> I hope that this answer helps you out .
I 've had the best results restoring from Time Machine to a freshly formatted drive . I did this for a machine with lots of system modifications , ( httpd.conf , ssh_config ) and all of these files were restored . When I did that with an OS in place these files were missed . There were no problems when I restored to a clean drive . Everything was restored properly . So , if you buy a Mac Mini , format the drive before running the Time Machine restore . I recommend sending machines to Apple as stock as possible . I 've put in known bad hard drives with the Apple Logo on them when sending a machine back to Apple . The hard drive was replaced and the primary problem was fixed . The drive swap would be fine , but unless you are in a big hurry I 'd discourage it .
If your devices have OS X Yosemite and iOS 8 or anything newer , <URL> Connect your iPhone , iPad or iPod touch to your Mac via a Lightning Cable . Open QuickTime on your Mac , and select File > New Movie Recording . A recording window will appear . Click the arrow next to the Record button , and select your iPhone from the dropdown menu that appears . Click the Record button and go about your business on your iPhone . Once you 're done , click the Stop button and save the video .
I recommend buying an official Apple.com refurb - you 'll likely save more than from Amazon and they often have very current models . The machine will be indistinguishable from new , aside from the packaging and comes with a full warranty . Put the savings towards buying cheaper Applecare from Amazon :) You can follow stock availability here : <URL>
The short answer : not without additional hardware . To control <URL> , you have to feed your computer some specially encoded signals from some special LPs that they produce . You need to buy Scratch Live , two or more of their special LPs ( one for each deck ) and then a special box like the <URL> that sits between your mixer 's mains output and your computer . This box converts the analog signal from the mixer ( which , with the special Scratch Live LPs is not something you should try to listen to -- it 's not human-friendly and can damage your speakers and hearing ) in to a digital signal that Scratch Live uses to match the playback of audio on the computer , to the rotation of the LPs on your decks .
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
If your Macbook Pro has the single 3.5 mm jack that can take input and output then iRig should work just fine for you . Someone asked <URL> . If you 're looking for something ultra cheap you could always get a 1/4 " to 3.5 mm adaptor to plug your guitar into your Mac . I did this for a very long time until I could afford higher quality hardware . These things run as low as $ 2 at some places , <URL> for example . Hope this helps !
No , it does not . You need the discrete GPU to run an external display . Funny though , because the integrated GPU 's of the MacBook Air can power up to a 27 " thunderbolt display . But that 's how Apple rolls .
Try out <URL> . It works very well on the Mac , has a windows version and also appears to have a trial version . You can make sure it works before spending money on a license .
It does n't appear that your MBP is capable of driving 2 4k displays with the Macbook 's primary display working ( see Graphics and Video support ) : <URL> Also the OWC Dock is n't capable of driving 2 4k displays so even if your MBP is capable of driving the displays you 'll need to use the HDMI port or one of the other Thunderbolt 2 ports to drive the second display : <URL> One thing you may be able to try is to close the Macbook to turn off it 's primary display , thus freeing up resources to try to handle both 4k displays .
You can rotate your MacBook Air screen using the OS X system preferences . What you need to do is : Launch System Preferences ( first quit it if it 's already open ) Hold down Command Option and click on " Display " Look for ' Rotation ' on the right side of the Display window and take your pick If System Preferences is already open then holding down Command + Option does n't seem to make the Rotatation menu appear . If you run into that , just quit out of System Prefs and relaunch it . ( found on <URL> and found here on <URL> ) EDIT : Cave ! I had serous troubles on my MacBook Pro retina . Do NOT try this method described above in Yosemite ( and properbly newer systems as well ) Read this : I recently tried this trick again to rotate my screen and got stuck in a nasty situation . My screen is inverted and my ' Display ' menu in System Preferences will not open , when trying to open the ' Display ' preference pane it gives me the following error : " Preferences Error Could not load Displays preference pane . " I have tried the following things to fix it , non of these work : Removed and , and rebooted . Logged in as another user or as guest user . repair permissions , gives the following warning : User differs on on " private/var/db / displaypolicyd " ; should be 0 ; user is 244 Group differs on on " private/var/db / displaypolicyd " ; should be 0 ; user is 244 Installed the ' OSXUpdCombo10 .10.3 . pkg ' Re-installed ' OS X - Mavericks over my current system ' Manually removed the Display preference pane from and installed the ' OSXUpdCombo10 .10.3 . pkg ' after that . Luckely I have an external display that does not go ' Australian ' on me , but this is quite nasty . I am now preparing for a clean install of my system as I am out of further ideas . EDIT 2 : - Temp fix/hack . This will not fix the broken ' Displays ' preference pane , but it will help you to leave ' Down Under ' and zero out gravity . Rotate your screen using a third party app : ' <URL> ' <URL> EDIT 3 : Complete clean reinstall of the system ' fixed ' the issue . I have only restored the non-admin users via TimeMachine . Error message :
Apple maintains a knowledge base article listing which Mac models support either one or two external thunderbolt displays . <URL> The technology does allow for multiple monitors to be daisy chained . In fact , the devices you daisy chain does n't matter , nor does the order they are in . However , like with the Display Port and eSATA , the problem at the moment is finding actual devices that support this feature . Until Apple or another manufacturer provides monitors with the ports needed for daisy chaining , this will not be possible . The advantage here is unlike eSATA and Display Port , the bandwidth available will make this more then manageable from the port itself . The biggest obstacle will be the ability to provide enough power to run all these daisy chained devices . Therefore just getting a cable will not be sufficient . Each device will be required to have its own incoming and outgoing port . Give the technology another year or so it will be more then doable and more mainstream . Apple would most likely also add these ports to their monitors fairly soon , I suspect during the next iMac/Monitor refresh schedule .
My easiest solution is to get an Airport Express ( that is preconfigured with wireless settings and then hooking that up to the Apple TV ) and then access the hotel 's terms and conditions using your smart phone .
I do n't know about the 7200 , but my mid-2010 MBP has the following ( from system profiler ) : I too had trouble with noise and vibration with a Seagate Momentus XT ( the hybrid drive ) . After reinstalling the stock drive it 's quiet and vibration free again .
end question
start question
Should I install X11 on my Mac Book Pro ?
If you install the X11 subsystem , it will only run when you have an X11 program running . Much the same as when installing the JVM - that will only run when you run a Java program .
Short answer is no . Cocoa is not designed as a remote procedure call ( RPC ) - esque protocol , while X is . You can not tunnel the interfaces of Cocoa applications like you know it from X11 natively , only using protocols like VNC that transfer the actual bitmap rather than the rendering instructions . On the other hand , you are able to use remotely running X applications via SSH .
Yes . Just run the App Store app on the second Mac and go to the Purchases tab . You 'll see a list of the apps you 've already purchased , with an Install button next to each one - click the button to install on the second Mac .
According to @ <URL> hint I find what was my problem I must un check Full-screen mode in X11 Preferences .
Apple does not offer any insurance like that with Applecare . I think Dell only offers it because replacing a piece of equipment is ultimately really cheap for them , but Apple does n't play Dell 's game ( and that is probably part of the reason why you purchased an Apple product ) . Going by the fact that you are in the USA , I think this would depend on the type of damages for which you are seeking insurance , which you do n't specify in your question . Renter 's or home insurance would protect against theft from your home ( rent or own , respectively ) . Damage incurred while being on the road would probably fall under some kind of business insurance , though I 'd imagine you would pay a pretty hefty penny for that level of care no matter who you call . I think your best course action would be to call your insurance company and see what they have to offer that best suits your particular needs .
Since you did n't mention you had a backup of the system or if you are equipped to troubleshoot a driver issue , you should probably not update things unless you have a problem . Apple vets the drivers it provides to be sure they work well with Mac hardware - so although you are free to update drivers , you are skipping that vetting process . Unless the driver manufacturer messed up , you will should be as fine as any other user updating the driver so it 's more an edge case of them not testing the new driver on Mac hardware than something that should break . Apple 's drivers are typically for the screen resolution , trackpad , system sensors and it 's unlikely those need a change since your Mac hardware has n't changed in most cases .
If you wanted to connect to two different networks you could use this . So say you had an internal network which you had your own computers all linked to but were not connected to the internet , you could use one port to connect to this network . Then you could connect the other port to a broadband router/modem and access the internet on your Mac Pro . It 's really more of an interest to businesses than domestic users . You could also use the second port to connect to Network Attached Storage ( NAS ) such as a MyBook World or similar . This would allow you to use the full bandwidth of one port for backups to disk while not affecting the speed on the other network . Backup interface in case one fails . You could have each interface connect to different switches on your network in case of a failure on one you still have access to the network on the other . There 's also something called <URL> which allows you to combine the ports to act as one port with twice the speed . However , this depends on your other network equipment supporting this mode .
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
You should go for the 64bit version . Apple is more and more leaning towards 64 bit adoption . In the end , unless it 's some heavy processing application , you wo n't even feel the difference with the 32bit version . But at least you 'll be ready for the future :)
You can remove all settings and information from your iPhone using " Erase All Content and Settings " in Settings > General > Reset . If that does n't help you can also try the same from iTunes , see <URL> for details . Connect your iPhone to your computer Select it when it appears under Devices Select the Summary tab , and click the Restore button verify to reset to factory settings and erase all data Afterwards you can restore your data again from a previous backup in iTunes .
Bluetooth needs to be in advertising mode for Yosemite 's Handoff to work . To disable Handoff in Mac Yosemite : Select System Prefs > General and uncheck " Allow Handoff between this Mac and your iCloud devices " .
You 're five major system updates back from El Capitan , and Apple has made a lot of changes to code , file arrangements , database structures , network connectivity etc. in the meantime . Apple usually does a pretty good job of clearing away the old to make way for the new , but things do slip through . I recently killed a few prefs files from 2007 that Migration Assistant kindly transferred to my 2014 mini . Invisible files and such often gets copied too . iTunes data structures have changed significantly , with loss of artwork or metadata upon upgrade being fairly common . Apple is pretty good , but they 're not infallible . With a jump of that many years , I 'd go for the clean install , followed by thoughtful installation of needed Apps , and manual transfer of docs , pics , music etc. . That way you 'll end up with a thoroughly modern System rather than a System that also contains a hodgepodge of used or unused pieces dating from an earlier decade .
The most important upgrade is making the system drive a Solid State Drive ( SSD ) . This alone may double the effective speed of your computer . Extra RAM is a nice second . Since SSDs are usually more expensive than traditional hard drives per GB , you could explore a ' hybrid ' drive , though I 'd recommend the fastest SSD that your Mac 's PCI bus throughput can handle . When I upgraded my old MacBook Pro ( I think it was also a 2009 model ) , large SSDs were still expensive , so I bought a 128MB SSD for the main system drive and moved the existing HDD into the spot where the Optical Drive was ( with a special mounting bracket ) , and put the Optical Drive in a cheap external USB case . I found all the parts on eBay for under $ 250USD and was honestly shocked at how much faster that MacBook performed .
I ended-up installing macports and using it to install rpm ( ) It took about an hour to compile all the dependencies , even if I do have 4 cores and a SSD .
This is not normal . I had a very similar problem with a <URL> ( they only sold them for a short time in 2008 . This is nearly the exact same case as the MBP that you have , except your Pro did actually have minor updates to help alleviate the problems we had in our MacBook . The problem would only appear after the machine had warmed up for a little bit . The hinge would make a creaking noise when closing , and as it got worse , when opening . It also would stay hinged just slightly open ( not waking from sleep ) when being carried in a laptop bag . This was due to an issue in the hinge on the keyboard part . Apple replaced two screens for us . The problem would fix it self for a month or two , but them come back . They finally redid the entire top half of the machine , and it worked great for 9 months . 2 months out of warranty , it happened again . Due to having over 3 repair attempts ( there were actually 4 ) , Apple instead offered us a replacement machine . We were told at that time that there were quite a few reports of this problem , and they had been addressed in the latest rev of the MBP . Since the unibody MB was no longer available , they upgraded us to the base 13 " MacBook Pro . Im assuming that while it mostly had been fixed through minor updates , there may be one with a similar problem now and then . The problem is related to the hinge design , and I have only seen it affect 13 " models . I would highly recommend taking it to the Apple store and having it replaced . They will not replace the whole top part on the first try , only the display .
The path is on both Snow Leopard and Lion . Note that you ca n't see the Library in your home folder ( as it is hidden by default ) . You can type in in Terminal to make it appear permanently , or hold down ⌥ Option while in the " Go " menu of Finder .
According to Apple the answer is no , but OWC has <URL> and found that there are no issues putting 16GB ( 2x8GB ) in the latest generation MacBook Pro . The upgrade does n't come cheap , though - at this time 2x8GB modules will set you back $ 1599 . <URL>
I 'm sorry that you 've had such a difficult time asking this question on Stack Exchange . I have n't been able to find a better/more up-to-date book , but most of Mac OS X is CPU architecture-independent anyway , and the book you 're reading does contain an appendix that discusses Mac OS X on x86 hardware and the corresponding similarities and differences between PowerPC hardware : Appendix A , " Mac OS X on x86-Based Macintosh Computers , " highlights the key differences between the x86-based and PowerPC-based versions of Mac OS X. Besides this appendix , the book covers the details of several key x86-specific topics , such as EFI , GUID-based partitioning , and Universal Binaries . Most of Mac OS X is architecture-independent , and consequently , the majority of the book is architecture-independent .
In some terms this is misunderstanding , but I hope it gets clearer soon : The Apple packaged JRE/JDK is always installed in , where " Current " is a link pointing to the actual version . Therefore , you can have multiple versions installed and use multiple versions in Xcode or other IDE . Oracle and its installers install their JDK/JRE in for the webbrowser plugin and the full JRE/JDK into . And additionally , software packages can come with their own JDK/JRE package . For instance , HP Peregrine Service Center does that . So when each application comes with its own JDK/JRE , you need to tell in some configuration which one to use . In general , for all shell driven applications there is one environment variable you usually set for this and it 's called JAVA_HOME . Software like tomcat respect this . Take a closer look at this : With the following java_home command you permanently switch over to Java 1.8 64 bit : But remember : you could do that , but do not expect certain software to follow that . In my case I installed JRE and JDK . By using the java_home command in your calling script you can always configure the right version for your application , e.g. To permanently remove the 1.7.x , read <URL>
Most apps like that store data in a SQLite3 database rather than property lists . I recommend this route instead -- actual implementation/etc is off-topic here .
end question
start question
What would it take to make an iPad support multiple user accounts ?
One place to look might be at <URL> . Update : iUsers for iPad now makes this possible . Check out the <URL> .
I would run a terminal command like and also run Activity Monitor to see if other processes are taking precedence to the copy and also inspect the volume of IO operations as well as the aggregate read/write bandwidth . You could have a bottleneck on the drive that is sending the data , the CPU that is doing the copy or the drive that is receiving the data in addition to the raw bandwidth of the external drive 's connection . Also , check in system profiler under the USB tree to inspect that the device is actually negotiated a USB 2.0 connection . Spinning HDD typically have a few hundred iops limit due to seek time even if there is perfect alignment of the data on the spindle so that the next block to be read is always directly under the read head when the drive schedules the next read . Other drive access , file fragmentation and other effects can often slow down a write to 50 iops or less which would clearly limit the transfer speed to 10 Mbps or less given typical block sizes for HFS + filesystems . In short , it might be a slow transfer due to the Mac or the drive sending the data and not a full or fragmented drive on the receiving end .
As Robin says , most people would go for OS X Server , because it has tools specifically built to do just this , providing you bind the clients to LDAP . Aside from that , OS X is designed hierarchically . You could try just adding the desired . plist files in / Library/Preferences instead of ~ / Library/Preferences and then deleting said files , if they already exist , from ~ / Library/Preferences ( since files in ~ / Library generally override those in / Library ) There is also the default " User Template " hiding in the System Folder , from which all new users ' home folders are created . You could edit this , but the change would only affect accounts created after the imaged machines have their first boot .
It can happen any time after the first machine exits the initial 90 day phone warranty . As soon as Apple has a used machine returned to them , it will be reformatted , cleaned up , and repackaged . Once Apple has enough to sell again , they go on sale as refurbished models .
The best browser for this is <URL> ( <URL> ) . It supports full Firefox browser syncing . There is a .99 upgrade to remove ads .
According to <URL> and <URL> , there are a number of things you should do before upgrading . Make sure your computer will actually run Mountain Lion . <URL> is a list of all the Macs that will not support Mountain Lion . Run Software Update . Go to the Apple menu > Software Update and make sure you have all the current updates installed . Make sure that you are at least running Snow Leopard 10.6.8 ( as required <URL> ) . Make sure you have enough space on your drive . Mountain Lion requires 8GB of space , so make sure you at least have that amount free ( preferably more though ) . If you do n't have the space required , you can use a disk visualizer such as <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) or <URL> ( free ) or use <URL> to remove old , unused applications . More detailed information on that is available from <URL> Check that all your applications wil run on Mountain Lion . <URL> is the best place to check . It has a status indicator , and a feature list of what feature the application supports Repair disk permissions and disk . If you are running Snow Leopard , start from the install disc and open Disk Utility . If you are running Lion , shut down and restart while holding Command ⌘ + R ( restart into the Recovery partition ) . In Disk Utility , click on your main hard drive and then click " Repair Permissions " . When that 's done , click " Repair Disk " . Thanks to <URL> that repairing permissions before an install is not necessary . " You do n't need to repair disk permissions prior to installing Mac OS X over a previously-installed OS . The installer will do this automatically . " <URL> Backup your computer . This is the most important step . If something goes wrong while installing Mountain Lion , you want to have a backup to go back to . Also , if for whatever reason you want to revert to Lion , backing up your computer will make it a million times easier to revert . The Tech Scoop recommends using Disk Utility to backup your computer . Lifehacker recommends using either Time Machine or <URL> to backup your computer . My preference is Carbon Copy Cloner , freeware software for cloning a hard drive . If you want to use the other options , check out the links above . Open Carbon Copy Cloner , select the source and the target and click " Clone " . Wait for it to backup your computer ... If you 've completed all the above steps , your Mac is ready for Mountain Lion ! Go to the App Store and install Mountain Lion .
You can <URL> , but I 'd suggest leaving them separate since you 'd potentially have incompatible preference , cache , and other " Library " files between the two versions of OS X. Perhaps symlink the corresponding preferences for the apps that you want to share data . iTunes Library is easily shared , just hold the Option key when launching iTunes the first time to specify the library to open ( it will remember it subsequently ) . Since Office 2011 wants to use the Microsoft User Data folder within ~ / Documents , you 'll likely have to symlink this folder from one of the profiles .
I personally started typing as fast as I would on a ' normal ' keyboard after about five minutes . You 'll really get used to it in a very short time !
Palm did this with the Pre : the device , like all devices , told iTunes it was an iPod and allowed only the syncing of non-DRM content over the USB connection . As to how the iPhone sorts out what it is to tell iTunes could either be hard-coded or come from a file somewhere in the OS . Either way , this forum is really not the place the find the answer to that question ( nor do I think SO is either ) . You probably should head over to one of the myriad iPhone jailbreak forum . Searching " iPhone jailbreak forum " in Google brings up a whole host of them .
macOS Sierra still supports multiple simultaneous connected users . In the example below Sierra is running in a VM and admin is logged in . user is a remote screen sharing session from the VM host machine ( 10.9.5 ) -- an iMac -- and root is a remote session from a MacBook Pro ( 10.11.6 ) : <URL>
Whilst the device hardware does support Wi-Fi Direct , the limitation in this case is software . There is currently no software on iOS that connects to a wireless hard drive through Wi-Fi Direct , but that has n't stopped apps being developed to take advantage of this -- Seagate has an app that connects to wireless hard drives : <URL>
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
Make sure the old Apple TV Remote is out of Bluetooth range , then while in front of the Apple TV set top box press a button on the new remote . This should pair the remote to the Apple TV . If not , try pressing Volume Up and Menu simultaneously on both remotes for 2-3 seconds , new and old , then do the aforementioned steps again with the new remote .
I have n't found a detailed list of the exact behaviors . For the most part , it seems that everything is simply pixel-scaled ( which is why text looks bad ) , except for images which were scaled down to begin with . I presume that the class has some behavior to handle this automatically . On Retina devices , Apple 's built-in text and image rendering are aware of the scaling factor of the screen , and will render text and photos in high quality . But this does n't seem to apply to iPhone apps run on an iPad . ( See Apple 's <URL> for more information on that . )
You have to use a single apple id in iTunes homesharing on all devices that you want on your appleTV BUT This does not mean that you ca n't buy anything anymore with your personal apple ID everything you buy will still be placed in your library and will be shared on the ' family ' apple ID account <URL>
I do n't really have a direct answer for you , but I would like to help by sharing what I know . I have a Mobile Me account , and there are no tools for editing your photos online . It 's an image gallery . A gallery is meant just for viewing and not for editing . Mobile Me was designed to work in conjunction with the iLife software on a desktop mac . You edit the photos , order the prints , make the cards , and the books in the iPhoto app on the Mac . Photo editing on the iPad is the easy part , but I think you are approaching it from the wrong angle . There are tons of free ( and cheap ) apps that allow you to edit photos . ( Photoshop Mobile for instance . Just check the Photography category in the App Store ) . Once you edit them in an app , then I would upload them to a service that supports printing services . The hard part is going to be the ordering of prints , cards and books from the iPad . We can only hope that sometime in the near future , Apple creates a mobile version of iPhoto just as they did with iMovie . That would be ideal . EDIT You can order prints from this app as well : <URL> You can also order prints from the Walgreens app : <URL> This might solve your issue as well ! <URL> You might want to check out this app and service : <URL> ECCE TERRAM announced a new service this week that will allow people to order prints of photos stored on their iPhones from the phones themselves . With their Photo2lab Client , users may select a photo ( both those taken with the iPhone and those transfered from iPhoto ) , add text and create prints , post cards and even mini photo books . You 'll even be able to add an address to a post card from the iPhone 's built-in contacts list .
Yes , this is possible for Apps and music . For obvious reasons , you can only gift Apps that cost money . Unfortunately this is not possible with books from the iBook store . From your Mac Navigate to the App Store in iTunes Find the app you want to gift Click the little down arrow next to the " Buy App " button A menu will appear , and one of the options is " Gift This App " From your iDevice Open the App Store app Find the app you want to gift Scroll to underneath the the screenshots Tap the " Gift This App " button
<URL> ( <URL> ) Free Allows you to make completely free phone calls using your Google Voice account . There are ads , but hey , it 's free ! I 've had no trouble with it at all and I highly recommend it .
Yes A single device can be added to as many developer accounts as necessary .
<URL> , based on Eclipse , has support for additional protocols , not just FTP . It 's free .
end question
start question
Why would the " Enable LTE " option be missing in an iPhone 5 ?
The LTE toggle shows up when your carrier settings indicate LTE is available for your device . If you have data , you can update OTA by going to Settings > General > About and waiting ( or tapping on your current carrier settings to see the details ) . A tethered check is also available by connecting your iPhone to iTunes and <URL> for your provider . If there is n't , the most likely explanation is that your provider has not enabled LTE in their carrier settings . If so , contact your provider on whether any LTE ( even if not theirs ) will work on your iPhone .
It 's still there ! Between the podcast artwork and the progress bar , tap the 1x icon to change the speed . On iPhone 4S and below , tap on the artwork to bring it up .
Found it : The UserDir module in Apache2 defaults to public_html . So ~ studentname was being directed to / Users/studentname/public _ html . Which does n't exist in any of the users ' folders . What does exist is / Users/studentname/Sites , so I just added this line to the httpd.conf : ... and it 's working perfectly now . Awesome ! Many thanks to @bmike for pointing me in the right direction .
The charger supplies the power that is demanded from it ( up to it 's rated output ) , not the other way around . So it 's entirely possible that the same unit will charge different devices at different speeds . It 's entirely possible that a newer battery will charge faster than an identical but older battery , and also possible that the new phone is allowed to pull more charge because it runs a little cooler ( charging generates heat , and one of the metrics for deciding how fast to charge is the heat generated as well as the batteries capacity to drink it up ) . Basically , it 's really hard to measure , without you do a from flat to full charge with the same unit to different devices with batteries of the same age and condition . Even then , be aware that the phone does n't stop charing when it says 100 % , that 's an artificial figure and your phone will continue to charge a little ( the equivalent of a little over 5 % more logically speaking ) , then run from battery a little , then charge a little , then run from battery etc - this is to keep your battery in good condition ( the same is true for 0 % , it will go lower in order to perform a clean shutdown - the battery figures are only an indication , not an accurate gauge ) - the actual methods for each device may also vary as to how they handle this .
Here is what we know : The iPhone 5c is for sale unlocked in the US at launch . The iPhone 5s is not for sale unlocked in the US at launch . It is unlocked at launch in many countries including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. . . The last phone launch had no 5c / 5s comparison ( unless you want to ignore the 5c and assume the 5s is handled identically to the 5 at launch . ) The iPhone 5 launch was <URL> and <URL> , you <URL> a <URL> . I would recommend you get confirmation that T-Mobile will unlock their contract-free but locked phone after a fixed amount of time or money , and get that in writing before you buy a US phone that is n't unlocked if you really need an unlocked iPhone . In informal discussions today , I was told that two months of service needs to be maintained before you can ask for an unlock , but I did n't get it in writing and ca n't find any mention of it on T-Mobile 's web site . Realize that any mobile carrier has limited devices and wo n't really want to sign up someone that will increase their churn rate and not be a " paying subscriber " when it comes time for them to report their quarterly subscriber counts .
iPhone does have a shell , bash to be specific , but you ca n't access the shell without jailbreaking , and any ' shell ' app from the App Store wo n't have the ability to interact with the device in any reasonable manner necessary for fixing network problems .
There are slight improvements to the battery capacities of the 5S and 5C over the 5 . iPhone 5 - 1440mAh < - 5.45 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5c - 1508mAh < - 5.73 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5s - 1558mAh < - 5.92 Whr at 3.8 V <URL> In terms of battery life comparison for 5 vs. 5c vs. 5s , they ran some benchmarks in <URL> . In some tasks the 5c/5s are better than the 5 , in others the 5 is better . With the exception of their Wifi browsing test , the new phones are comparable to the 5 , with there being less than an hour difference in battery life . In the Wifi browsing test though , the new phones ran out of juice .57 hours sooner ( 5c ) and 1.3 hours sooner ( 5s ) .
Today I get the option back . After 6 month I found <URL> app was the reason to disable " personal Hotspot " . I just uninstalled it . <URL> I wrote an email to Onavo support about it and got this reply Dave NOV 09 , 2011 | 06:44 PM IST Hi Jitendra , Thanks for replying . We 're sorry to hear that , still trying to find a solution for this . Our team is working on several solutions , will update soon . Regards , Onavo Support <URL>
Apps which are just web views are specifically against the App Review Guidelines : 2.12 Apps that are not very useful , unique , are simply web sites bundled as Apps , or do not provide any lasting entertainment value may be rejected Source : <URL>
I assume since it was a month ago that you had iOS 6 on there ? If someone found it and wiped it from scratch , your Find My iPhone will not work . In iOS7 , <URL> could prevent them from re-activating your phone if they found it , and you might have a chance to find something .
This is probably because some other users of files require complete lines e.g. C code will complain if there is no newline at the end of file - see <URL> and one main use of Bbedit etc is programming So the reason is not really specific to the Apple editors mentioned but more for what use the files is made of . Also see the comment to that question Not really the reason , but it 's very annoying if you cat a file and it does not have a trailing newline as the new shell prompt will appear after the last line of the file ( i.e. not in column 0 )
<URL> , somebody did it with success . Worked flawlessly for me I just activated my new iPhone 3GS and then iTunes offered to either set it up as a new iPhone or to restore it from my iPod Touch backup which I did . No problems so far ...
Flash controllers generally degrade gracefully , so once a block has failed , it no longer is usable , so you would expect a slow , gradual shrinking of the usable space over time . Once the majority of the blocks start reaching the limit on write cycles ( you need to store different data - not just the same bits to make real change on most flash controllers ) then this reduction of space increases more linearly with time / write cycles . So - it will be quick to not store the entire file , but a much longer time until you ca n't write to 50 % of the drive .
In such cases I , myself , do a boot into DFU mode which actually uses way less energy mainly because the display stays off . Then I wait for about a half an hour and then I reboot the iDevice in order to have it properly booted . P.S. Follow this procedure in order to enter an iDevice into DFU mode : Make sure your iDevice is plugged into a power source via it 's USB cable ; Hold down both Home and Power buttons on the iDevice for about 10 seconds until the screen goes off ; Keep holding the Home button and release the Power button ; Open iTunes to check if the iDevice is connected . A message saying that an iDevice in a Recovery mode is connected should show up .
Ricardo is correct in his answer of @ 3x , but I 'll take a shot at answering your question as well . If you 're working from Retina resolution assets already , the upscale factor would be an additional 1.5 x for the iPhone 6 Plus . For example , your 88px by 88px Retina icon would have to be up-scaled to a resolution one and a half times that amount for the iPhone Six Plus : 88 * 1.5 = 132 .
EDIT As of March 7th 2012 you can now delete individual photos from Photo Stream if you are running iOS 5.1 or iPhoto 9.2.2 Believe it or not , it seems you ca n't delete individual photos from iOS5 Photo Stream . It seems you 'll need to wait for them to scroll off as Photo Stream just holds your most recent 1000 pics . Deleting a picture from Camera Roll has no effect on the photos on Photo Stream . According to <URL> : iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You ca n't edit or delete photos from your Photo Stream . If you want to touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . So unless you delete it before it 's uploaded to the cloud , you need to follow the procedures below . You need to reset your Photo Stream from <URL> or turn off Photo Stream within iOS5 on your device . Turn off Photo Stream in iOS5 : Settings > iCloud > Photo Stream Switch off and then back on to clear Photo Stream on this device Repeat for each iOS5 device Reset Photo Stream on iCloud.com Sign into <URL> Click on your name in the upper-right corner Click on ' Advanced ' Click ' Reset Photo Stream ' to remove all Photo Stream pictures from iCloud
The option key has been in use on Macintosh computers long before there was a control key , since the option key was always used for alternative input of characters with diacritics , like " å " . Apple always tried to force developers into not hiding away functionality into contextual menus and thus did not include more than one mouse button for quite a long time . I think it was once applications gained complexity and needed to offer contextual menus for better usability , that Apple decided to include a control key for the first time . In short : The naming of the control and option keys are meant quite literal : one gives you access to optional input and one gives you access to controlling the interface .
Live photos use the microphone to record sound as well as video when you take a picture . Look at the camera settings when you open the app to see whether video is going to happen ( or already be happening since it records video from before you press the shutter ) . There appears to be a bug ( that has n't been fixed yet as of iOS 9.3 ) on that hardware that makes iPhone 6S worse than others - it pauses even when you are aware of the video aspects and request a non-live photo and non-video recording setting .
It 's very likely to be the speaker . Because yes , speaker use magnets . It 's on opposite side of the top speaker only and looking at <URL> ( courtesy of <URL> ) there is nothing else that is magnetic .
Yes the cases are compatible and apple has confirmed it . Source : <URL>
end question
start question
How can I add an Old English dictionary to Dictionary ?
Adding dictionaries is possible . Finding the one you want may not be . See <URL> For info on creating dictionaries for dictionary.app , see <URL> <URL>
As far as I am aware there is no reference to wildcard characters in vcard . If Mac OS or iOS supported such feature it would not be supported by other devices . But you can add the 100 phone numbers by hand . I would recommend exporting the contact as a vcd file then add all the numbers by hand . Copy paste will be faster than writing them one by one in the Contacts app : And import it back .
You have n't missed anything obvious other than that Finder is the primary ( and nearly exclusive ) mechanism for placing and reading file tags on Mavericks . There is no interface for Calendars , Contacts , Mail ( or iLife ) to use the filesystem tags directly as far as I can tell . The only apps I 've seen that have an interface to tags other than Finder are the new iWork apps where they are document based apps and you can assign tags in the two places : The save dialog From the document icon in the window 's header bar
This bug is known to the Chrome developers and has been filed under ... <URL> : Dictionary keyboard shortcut does n't work in Lion Basically the problems are timing issues for some websites which take too long to respond to information needed to show the dictionary . This is what resek@chromium.org says : There 's likely not much that we can do here . We have to block the UI thread to implement this feature , which is bad and so that 's done on a timeout . If the web page takes too long to respond for the information we need to display the popup , we give up and unblock the UI . If we did n't do this , Chrome would look like it 's hung , waiting on the web page to respond . We collect timing information about this , and most pages succeed well below the timeout , but there 's also some class of pages that do not respond in time ( more than 1500ms , which is what starts to be perceived as sluggish/hung ) .
This popover is built into the NSView class ( <URL> ) . Since ( as far as I can tell ) it is n't controlled or powered by a distinct system process , it is completely owned by the app that owns the view where the popover was triggered . In short , since the popover is owned solely by whatever app triggered it , there 's no way to get rid of a stuck one without killing its parent app . FYI , if the popover is n't dismissed with the escape key or by clicking outside of its body , something has gone wrong . I would file a bug report with the developers of the app where this happens .
To work together on any development project , you preferably need a <URL> like GIT or SVN . Apple supports this with <URL> . If you 're not working on the app at the same time , I imagine that DropBox or any other file sharing system would work as well . Being on the same Apple Developer team would hardly mean anything in this matter at all . Note that you need to apply as a company to the Apple Developer Program in order to have more team members . The only direct benefit during development is that you can use the same certificates for distributing your app . The package you upload to iTunes Connect for distribution via the App Store is a binary , a compiled version of the app from which it is not possible to extract the source code .
If you have added a machine record ( e.g. server.example.com ) the primary zone example.com has been already created automagically . To view all records ( including your primary and the reverse zone ) click on the gear near the bottom of the window and choose ' View All Records ' .
Once you are certain you are happy with Photos , &amp; you are certain the Library has migrated successfully , you can delete the old iPhoto app &amp; iPhoto Library if you wish . The Library , as you mentioned , is ' virtual ' as both are hard linked to the same files . Deleting either Library will not delete the pictures , only deleting both Libraries will do that . The apparent size on disk is incorrect [ or rather , somewhat misleading ] , as each Library will claim to be approximately the same size , yet they refer to the same files . Also see - <URL>
While the Dock does n't have the concept of " folders " for the apps that are pinned to or running in it , as of Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard the <URL> feature can provide something similar . Dragging the Applications folder from the Finder into the " Stacks section " ( right of the white-dashed line ) of the Dock will add it as a Stack . You can then click the folder to see something like this : If you want subsets of your Applications as separate Stacks , you can create folders for each somewhere in your filesystem , and add <URL> for the desired applications . ( Note that dragging an app from the Applications folder to another folder makes an alias by default . Convenient ! ) The results look like this : All this being said , an alternative if you have OS X 10.7 Lion is to use <URL> to organize and access your apps , keeping the contents of your Dock as minimal as possible .
Using the tool Disk Utility , select your hard disk , then select the " partition " tab that appears on the right . This will allow you to list the partitions on your drive . If you used a standard bootcamp install , you will probably find that the windows partition appears after the end of the Mac one , and is at the end of the disk . Selecting this partition , and hitting the minus button should remove it , and will leave a blank hole in it 's space . Now you should be able to select the first partition , and increase it 's size in order to fill the available space vacated by the windows partition . Top tip : Backup your Mac partition ! Use Time Machine , Super Duper , Carbon Copy Cloner of similar tools . This should be perfectly achievable without even a reboot , but you are mucking around with your disks partition table , risks do exist , there is always a chance of failure ruining both partitions . I would n't worry it about it too much , but if your data is important , you should do this first .
No unfortunately the only options are really external . Until someone can come up with a 3G / 4G card that will work in place of the MacBook Airs Wifi / Bluetooth card , but even then how portable are the antennas designs between Wifi and 3G / 4G cellular signals , not sure it would work well if at all . <URL> : A mobile WiFi Hot Spot is a real option for now , essentially a portable broadband card that interfaces with your Mac via Wifi to allow a data connection . Also if have a smartphone such as an iPhone or Android phone that offers this Wifi sharing you can use one of those as well to do the same thing . These kinds of devices have their own battery and would allow you to tuck them away in a backpack , bag , pocket etc and use your MacBook Air with out any dongles , etc. .
Actually , it can be done very easily : Just put the name of the feed , or its URL , in the search box . Flipboard will find it . And then , you can select it , and add it .
On iCloud.com , open Contacts . Then , click on the ribbon with the people icon until the groups appear . Now , hit the plus icon at the bottom , and name the new group . Click back on " All Contacts " . Now , simply drag each contact that you want to move into the group . If you want to select more than one at a time , just hold down the Command key ( control key on Windows ) and click on each one , then drag them all into the group .
Syncing Google Contacts via CardDAV will allow you to store the relationship information in your address book entry . See <URL> for instructions .
You 'll need to copy two files from the old installation of OSX : The first tells Dashboard which Widgets to show , the second contains your notes . Copy these to your new and you should be good . You 'll need to restart , logout and login , or kill the Dock , for example by opening Terminal and running . It worked for me - but I should warn that my home path was the same on the old install and new install .
You might not be happy with the current functionality of iTunes , but here 's how to works . The folder structure from iBooks in iOS does n't get reflected in iTunes , so you ca n't control which category new books will arrive in on the device . You can have a folder of epub files and drag them into iTunes , but they go where iTunes puts them , not a folder of your choosing . This allows bulk injection of hundreds or thousands of books into management for syncing . The computer version of iTunes will then make a copy of those files in it 's Media folder and sync them to all iOS devices the next time they sync ( assuming you have the sync rules to sync all Books to each device ) . Now , the good news is that if you go ahead and file a book in a category on your iOS device other than Books , that information does sync back to iTunes and the next sync will re-organize things on other devices so you file once , and then sync each device to get them all in sync . Furthermore , if you have a new iOS device ( or erase an existing device ) and push all books to that device . The folder status from the last device sync goes to that empty iBooks on iOS . If and when Apple adds a control to iTunes , you may be able to order books on iTunes just like you can order App icons in iTunes and then sync the device to see the results .
You can choose which calendars to sync by going to : <URL> For more info , you can read Google 's support doc about <URL> .
This is hard to guess , as you can imagine . If the machine had kernel panics the usual ( but not only ) suspects are RAM chips . You can probably try new RAM ( google for OWC , CRUCIAL , etc. ) . The battery can be replaced at an Apple Store ( of course you 'll have to pay for it ) . The Hard Drive could be a problem too , so maybe if you had to replace it , adding an SSD instead would boost the performance . In the end , there 's little else you can replace without having to ditch the entire motherboard , and that 's probably not worth the cost outside the warranty . Running a Linux ( more tolerant sometimes with dubious RAM/Hardware in general ) is a decent alternative . Ubuntu ( among others ) is a decent OS for casual users .
This would make scrolling up ( or dragging up with two fingers ) over an icon show app Exposé :
You could use the one that 's built into <URL> ... ( which is a viable replacement for Terminal anyway , if you do n't know it yet )
end question
start question
How do I repair my HDD when Disk Utility wo n't recognise it needs repairing ?
It turns out that the two problems were not related . My Mac refuses to shut down henever an external hard drive is connected to it .
In the Contacts app , edit your girlfriend 's card to give her a of . This will solve your problem in the most official of ways . See more detail <URL> .
If you simply want speed , then FW800 is faster than USB2 ( you do not have USB3 ) . USB has drawbacks which result in a lower then promised sustained speed ( FW800 > FW400 > USB2 ) . Edit : I 've done some research to get real world numbers . While the theoretical speeds are ( 100MB/s vs 50 MB/s vs 60MB/s ) the real world results result are ( 90MB/s vs 30MB/s vs 30MB/s ) due to limits cause by bridge-chips ( <URL> ) . Since hard drives allow transfer speeds above 30MB/s , you should take FW800 . If you want to be upgrade safe for a future Mac , I 'd take USB2/3 . Firewire support is probably going to be dropped in the near future ( see Macbook Air ) . Thunderbolt is overkill - as you said .
Type ( i.e. tilde , period ) at the beginning of a line . In other words , press Enter , then ~ , then . . ( In some languages , you may need to press Shift or Alt to enter the character . ) Generally speaking , the character is an escape character in an SSH session when you type it at the beginning of a line . Type Enter then to see the list of escape commands . The most common ones are to terminate the connection ( press ~ then Ctrl + Z ) to suspend the connection and type a command locally ( run the command to return to the SSH session ) If you want a tilde at the beginning of a line , press ~ twice .
Burn it with Disk Utility by adding ISO file to left pane , then choose it and press Burn on a toolbar . And that is it .
I 've seen reference to various iTunes Data Anonymizer applications . This should be a reasonably comprehensive list of where you should and should n't be worried . DRM Encumbered Files ( protected AAC media ) do not carry direct personal information such as your name . They do of course have personal information to the extent necessary to examine and validate your license , but this is information that should only be able to be understood by Apple . So called " iTunes Plus " unprotected MP3 files do contain your personal information . A cursory search led me to <URL> . Note that I am not vouching for this software . Your mileage may vary . Make a backup of any files you have before running them through this , or any other modification software . Files encoded via the CD Ripper does not tag data into the encoded files , no matter what format or quality you choose . Nor will arbitrary media files you choose to import into iTunes . Did I miss a means in which data may become " available " into iTunes ?
Just click on the AE icon and it will display a list of connected wireless clients .
iCloud Photo Library 's purpose is to unify the photo libraries across your devices . If you wish your devices to maintain separate libraries , you need to disable iCloud Photo Library .
Regardless of the state of the Mac , holding down the power button will always kill it and allow you to cold boot . Make sure you 're holding the power button down long enough -- hold it down longer than you think is necessary .
Is the phone 's lock screen PIN secure enough to be in the repair shop for a few days ? I 'd say no . There are forensic-type applications can that extract your phone data without requiring the screen to be unlocked . It 's fairly easy to backup and then wipe your phone , and later restore it from that backup . Might as well do it and rest comfortably knowing none of your personal data is in the hands of someone else . Besides , you may not get your exact phone back . They may be able to swap it for a new phone or a refurbished phone if they 're an Apple Authorized repair depot . In that case your data may be left on your old phone and sent off to a depot for reconditioning . Who would want that uncertainty ? Backing Up Your Phone Before you wipe your phone to send it in make sure you have a backup ! If you 're using iCloud back up your phone go to Settings - > iCloud - > Storage &amp; Backup and click the Back Up Now button to do a backup . If you 're using iTunes to backup your phone connect to iTunes and do a backup . Wiping Your Phone DOUBLE CHECK YOU 'VE MADE A RECENT BACKUP !!! To wipe the phone go to : Settings - > General - > Reset and click the Erase All Content and Settings button . This will set you back to factory defaults . Send it in for repair . Restoring Your Phone When you get it back it should behave as if it 's a new , never used , iPhone . In this case , after you pick your language , you 'll be asked if you want to set it up as a new phone , restore it from an iCloud backup or restore it from an iTunes backup . Select Restore from iCloud Backup and follow the prompts if you used iCloud to back up your phone . Otherwise select Restore from iTunes Backup and follow the prompts .
While <URL> @ <URL> <URL> are no longer freeware , the <URL> and <URL> Dashboard widgets are free . I personally use iStat nano for my system monitoring needs . Here it is showing the temps it can read on my iMac : If you <URL> the widget , you can change the view . I usually have it running in " <URL> " mode , which shows CPU , RAM , HDD * , fan * , temperature * , network * and uptime info . * ) user-configurable , e.g. which temp sensor 's readings are displayed
I ended up following the instructions in the article I linked to in my original post to move my Time Machine backups to a new drive . It took 28 hours to transfer 1.9 TB of backups . I then ran Disk Utility " Verify Disk " on it and it was good . So , the errors did not transfer over . So now , I can just repartition the old drive to get rid of all the errors , which I will do after a few days of ensuring that this copy of my backups is indeed good . I later tested the transferred backup by reformatting my iMac and restoring from the TM backup , and it worked fine ( I 'm on it now ) .
What seems to work is signing out from my Apple ID ( using the Apple ID link at the bottom of the App Store ) , then shutting off the device ( hold the power button ) . Then I turn back on the device , go to the App store , enter my Apple ID info , and then try to download/update an app again . Just restarting or relogging in to my Apple ID alone did n't seem to be enough .
MacBooks are fine to be transported when in sleep mode . When a MacBook goes into sleep , it takes 20-30 seconds to save the current state to the HDD , while this is happening you 'll see the status light shine brightly . Once it goes into a slow pulse , the MacBook is asleep and the HDD is inactive so there is no risk to the HDD from normal movement in a bag for example . Just make sure you do n't throw it into the bag until it 's fully asleep . MacBooks also have a ' Sudden Motion Sensor ' which can prevent damage to the HDD by the computer parking the head of the HDD if it detects that it is being shaken or is falling . Read about it on the <URL> or in the excerpt below : Sudden Motion Sensor technology is built-in protection for the hard disk , designed to help prevent disk issues if the computer is dropped or if it senses unusually strong vibration . Apple has adjusted this feature carefully to provide the best balance between protecting the hard drive and preventing unwanted activation of the Sudden Motion Sensor . Most Apple portable owners never need to turn this feature off . Apple suggests that you not modify the settings unless absolutely necessary . In some environments , such as live concert halls , recording studios , or dance clubs , external vibrations may be major enough to cause the module to unexpectedly park the hard drive heads , resulting in interrupted sound or video playback . In these situations , you may find that you want to disable the feature temporarily . Also see page <URL> and page <URL>
Sounds like you need a disk visualizer . There are several out there : <URL> ( free ) Disk Inventory X is a disk usage utility for Mac OS X 10.3 ( and later ) . It shows the sizes of files and folders in a special graphical way called " treemaps " . It is my personal favorite , as it is really simple and easy to use , as well as the great price of free ! <URL> ( $ 20 , currently on sale for $ 9.99 ) DaisyDisk scans your disks and presents their content as interactive maps where you can easily spot unusually large files and remove them to get more free space . The map gives you an overview of your data , so you always know what your hard disks are filled with . I do n't have personal experience with DaisyDisk , but it has been highly recommended by many people , including members of Ask Different . <URL> ( free ) GrandPerspective is a small utility application for Mac OS X that graphically shows the disk usage within a file system . It can help you to manage your disk , as you can easily spot which files and folders take up the most space . It uses a so called tree map for visualisation . Each file is shown as a rectangle with an area proportional to the file 's size . Files in the same folder appear together , but their placement is otherwise arbitrary . Again , no personal experience , but highly recommended by others .
The Mac will boot with or without a mouse and keyboard , and you should see something on the monitor either way . You do not need to use Apple mice and keyboards . So , the problem has to be either the monitor or the Mac Mini . You can look at the <URL> to see if the Mini is running . If it is steady white , the computer is on . If it is pulsing , the computer is sleeping . If it is off , the computer is off . If the computer is on but nothing is coming up on the monitor : Check all connections . Try with a different monitor , if possible . Make sure the correct input is selected on the monitor . If the computer wo n't turn on : Check all connections . Make sure it 's plugged in . Make sure you 've pressed the power button all the way , without holding it down too long . If you ca n't get it to turn on at all , take it back to the people who sold it to you and get your money back ; they sold you a broken machine .
You can see the current RAM configuration in a visual overview by : Going to the menu If you 'd like further detail , open the from the tab of . This can also be accessed by holding ⌥ while the menu is open , then selecting .
Zeroing out a brand new disk is , for the average user , a waste of your time . Writing all those zeros to every single block on the disk is time consuming ( and yes , your zero-out time seems to be in the ball park even for USB 3 ) and has no real benefit . The disk , if new , and freshly HFS + formatted is ready to go without any additional work . Zeroing out can help the security-paranoid erase latent data from the platters ( though , zeroing is n't sufficient to meet US Government regulations for sanitizing media see <URL> for more details ) . And it can help find and mark bad sectors before you start relying on the media for day to day use . I 'll contend that , except for ultra rare cases where new media is heavily damaged on arrival , that modern methods for finding and marking bad sectors in situ are good enough to make pre-finding them before serious use unnecessary in this day and age .
I managed to resolve this by changing my DNS server to Google 's . Not ideal , but it worked . Still , any ideas why this is happening ?
It 's a combination of the Pagefile ( virtualmemory ) and the hibernation file that gets written when you put your computer to sleep . Of course , other processes may also leave temp files that get deleted when you restart . There is n't really much you can do to improve that without affecting your computer 's performance . You can get a utility like <URL> , <URL> or similar to visually inspect the contents of your hard drive and see where is the " abnormal " file or directory . You can also use <URL> to reduce the size of your executables and remove unwanted languages and files . Update : The virtual memory file is located in and the hibernation/sleeping file in Please not that you ca n't ( and should n't ) delete the vm file while OSX is running . -
end question
start question
How do you test network speed without an app ?
ISPGeeks.com has a non-flash java based bandwidth tester . It pretty accurately measured the speed of my iPad on my home connection , as compared to similar tests on the usual Flash-based sites .
Yes , this can be done without OnyX . First head to System Preferences > Desktop &amp; Screen Saver > Screen Saver and select one of the screen savers included in OS X , or a third party screen saver that you 've previously installed . Whichever one you choose , just make sure it 's selected as the active screen saver , even if you have it set to never start in the " Start After " duration drop-down menu . Next , launch Terminal ( located in the Applications > Utilities folder ) , copy and paste the following command , and press the Return key on your keyboard to execute it : Source : <URL>
I 've never been able to figure out why this function seems so unreliable - holding D for diagnostics does n't seem to work for me in practice . I wish I had a better explanation than " many models do n't have this and even the ones that do , this is n't something I can count on . " I have come to rely on AHT that are available for authorized Apple technicians to download so you might be able to get help from one closer than an Apple Store - <URL> Apple will usually run a very good test for free as past of a genius bar appointment , and both Apple and Authorized Service will usually check a mac in for diagnostics under coverage for no charge . Out of warranty , expect to pay $ 39 to $ 85 for a diagnostic . Lastly , you can order replacement media if yours are misplaced from Apple . 800-APL-CARE
If you have Lion , then you can also hold down the option key in Launchpad ; the icons will start to wiggle and show little x 's on all the App Store installed apps very much like iOS does . Click the x and confirm the deletion and it will be the equivalent of dragging it to the trash from Finder ; which means supporting preference files , etc. still remain , but for most users that should be of no concern .
There 's no way to do that , alas . <URL> shows an AppleScript that can make playlists from all complete albums , but if you have a lot of albums , it might be overwhelming .
Firstly you 'll need to obtain the SSL certificate , sending it to you via email or grabbing it from a web . Once opened ( tapping on it from the email attachment , for instance ) an installation process will start . On the Install Profile screen , tap on Install . A warning message saying that Installing this profile will change settings on your iPhone will appear . Tap Install now . If your device is Pin Protected you 'll be prompted to enter it . You 'll , then , be prompted to enter the certificate 's password . Tap on the Next button on the top right corner of the screen , once the password has been entered . The certificate will be installed , and a screen with the new certificate will be show .
Yes , it 's true <URL> . This is a failsafe in case a nefarious app accidentally makes it past the review process . Not sure about Mac App store , I doubt the ability exists there . It 's a different installation/update process . I do n't think it 's been done before , and I would n't worry about it . It 's a good thing . I would want an app that say sniffs my credit card numbers or is actually a trojan horse of some kind to be removed from my iPhone post haste .
I have n't tried this solution my self - yet , but found this thread : <URL> You should consider using <URL> , which precisely allows you to run scripts in response to many system events such as network changes , filesystem activity , application launching , etc. . As I could n't find any sensible documentation , I also wrote a small blog post on <URL> .
Remove it from the list of " Preferred Networks " and it will stop auto-connecting . Go to " System Preferences " > " Networks " prefpane . Choose " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " on Lion ) on the left . Click the " Advanced " button . In the resulting sheet , choose the " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " ) tab . ( It should be the leftmost . ) Select your neighbor 's wifi network in the list and hit the " - " ( minus ) button . Live with joy at never [ auto - ] connecting there again !
I ca n't find any playback app on the iPad with the exact 1.7 ratio ... However , <URL> has 1.5 and 1.75 playback ratios . They even say in their site blurb that it 's good for fast reviewing of lectures . Reviews are excellent and integration with Mail and Dropbox is there , as well as a very comprehensive codec list
Not presently . iOS multitasking however is quite different than say the multitasking in Android or Mac OS X . The app unless it specifically is using one of the 7 methods to run in the background is " frozen " and wo n't consume any resources until it 's brought back to the forefront . Essentially the fast app switching feature as part of iOS 4.0 is a large part of why you saw so many apps being updated to work with iOS 4.0 multitasking .
It 's still there ! Between the podcast artwork and the progress bar , tap the 1x icon to change the speed . On iPhone 4S and below , tap on the artwork to bring it up .
I have been having this same problem and as I go through this thread I found that I could answer yes to everything , but the problem persisted . I ended up opening the Contacts page on my Mac and while the contacts I needed were in " All Contacts " they were not in the " On My Mac " so I highlighted them all under " All Contacts " and did a drag and drop into " On My Mac " it fixed almost all my problems . The ones that it did n't fix I found out that the formatting on the phone number themselves were not correct . For example the one on Mac messenger was 1 (234)567-8900 while the contact card did not have a 1 ... so , (234)567-8900 . Changing those two things fixed everything .
The Synology NAS supports a Network Recycle bin , but only for SMB volumes . Therefore if you want to make use of it from your Mac , you need to access the share via SMB and not AFP . This can be enabled from the under . The Synology by itself fully supports Time Machine , and can act as a Time Capsule . Most of the documentation on the Internet mention the Network Trash and Time Capsule option in the same place , but as an Windows/Mac comparison type description . The manual for DSM does not mention Network Trash for Mac either , only for Samba . I am not entirely sure where you read that the Synology supports this feature for OSX , since I could n't find any reference to it in the way you described . OSX , unlike the previous OS 9 , does not support a of any kind , and I am not aware of any plans to bring this feature to OSX . Therefore it also ca n't be activated from the OS layer . I suspect the naming was changed from Network Trash to CIFS Recycle Bin in the new DSM by Synology because of the confusion it has caused .
There is no official way to do so , but if you 've jailbroken your iPad , you can use <URL> . It 's a Cydia Tweak and I can highly recommend it . It does exactly what you want .
This is the current state of iOS . You 'll notice that incoming calls and pop ups ( the old style notification ) also negatively affect the performance of current app .
Go to System Preferences → Printers &amp; Scanners and set Default printer to Last printer used .
<URL> is a good , inexpensive search utility that does not use Spotlight and will enable you to perform these kinds of searches .
I found what I needed in ~ / Library/Caches/com . apple.mcc.accounts It 's an XML file and it has 4 occurences of each wrong email . Updated and it works fine in Mail.app
You can use either thumb to hold down a ⌘ key and then use another finger to access the other key . You just have to get used to sliding either thumb a little to the left or to the right of the space bar . Yes , this is just a result of years of using a PC .
end question
