start question
Is the T-Mobile iPhone 6s from Apple.com Unlocked ?
Yes - T-Mobile phones of all versions are factory unlocked . iPhone 6s/plus will be just like the iPhone 6/plus in that regard . This year , you can buy phones unlocked on Apple 's payment plan as well if you prefer that over paying full price .
Afraid not . The simulator runs on x86 architecture and the iPhone apps are published to run on ARM .
This <URL> what you are looking for . As expected there is no file size limit , the answer is more complex and depends on the device memory and image compression algorithm used : The maximum size for decoded GIF , PNG , and TIFF images is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM . That is , ensure that width * height ≤ 3 * 1024 * 1024 for devices with less than 256 MB RAM . Note that the decoded size is far larger than the encoded size of an image . The maximum decoded image size for JPEG is 32 megapixels using subsampling . JPEG images can be up to 32 megapixels due to subsampling , which allows JPEG images to decode to a size that has one sixteenth the number of pixels . JPEG images larger than 2 megapixels are subsampled -- that is , decoded to a reduced size . JPEG subsampling allows the user to view images from the latest digital cameras . The maximum size for a canvas element is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM .
Yes , the two models are physically different . The radio is different . As <URL> , the radio frequencies are n't the same . The verizon iPad supports Verizon LTE , and as per <URL> , AT&amp;T 3G . However , the Verizon iPad does not support all LTE frequencies that the AT&amp;T iPad does . From Apple.com : Wi-Fi + 4G for AT&amp;T model : 4G LTE ( 700 , 2100 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Wi-Fi + 4G for Verizon model : 4G LTE ( 700 MHz ) ; CDMA EV-DO Rev. A ( 800 , 1900 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Notice that there are some differences between the listed frequencies . They 're nearly the same , but not quite . Edit : To confirm , the difference is a hardware difference , not a software imposed limitation on AT&amp;T LTE . From <URL> : The Verizon iPad hardware supports only the 700 MHz band for LTE to match the carrier 's technology , while the GSM version sold for use on AT&amp;T 's network supports both the 700 MHz and 2100 MHz bands as used by that carrier . If you 're looking to travel internationally , go with the AT&amp;T iPad . ( I got the Verizon iPad because I wanted the free hotspot feature , which AT&amp;T does not offer for free at this time . )
Since <URL> appears to no longer work ... Bookmark this ( or any ) page - then edit the bookmark - call it what you like , but change the url to ... Now you can check your user agent any time you feel like conveniently from your bookmarks - thanks Apple ! Or if it 's just a quick one-off check you want and you 're connected to the ' net , do what <URL> .
Remember the <URL> ? Apple did license the technology at that point in time to build an iTunes compatible phone with Motorola , before the iPhone era . The <URL> was one of the other few non-Apple devices compatible with iTunes . There was also the case of the <URL> which supported iTunes syncing ( unlicensed ) , but Apple kept breaking the syncing ( purposedly ? ) with new iTunes versions , forcing users of Palm Pre 's to search for hacks to get it working again . I think this shows that it is technically possible ( even through reverse engineering ) , but Apple is not going to sit by and allow it . This probably is even more true nowadays , as they are fiercely protecting the iTunes/iOS eco-system . You could also use iSync to sync contacts and calendars with many different phone models , but it has gone missing since Mac OS X Lion . Here 's <URL> to install it again though . EDIT : Found a quote from Apple regarding " non-supported " devices , which illustrates their stance : Apple is aware that some third-parties claim that their digital media players are able to sync with Apple software . However , Apple does not provide support for , or test for compatibility with , non-Apple digital media players and , because software changes over time , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with non-Apple digital media players . And here 's a reaction from Apple to Business Week regarding the Palm Pre : iTunes 8.2.1 is a free software update that provides a number of important bug fixes . It also disables devices falsely pretending to be iPods , including the Palm Pre . As we 've said before , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with unsupported digital media players .
I just purchased a Verizon iPhone 5S gold and am running it on T-Mobile . I get 4G and LTE wherever it is available .
According to <URL> , " The iTunes Store and Mac App Store uses Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) encryption on all functions that require personal information . " So passwords are sent encrypted , not in cleartext . If the NSA is packet sniffing at your local Starbucks , chances are they know how to get your password ( but if they 're looking for your App store password , you 've got bigger problems ) , but it should be reasonably safe .
You only need the first part of this code to do what you ask , but the rest may also be helpful .
You can use Guided Access to restrict access to a single app , and even ignore touch on certain ( or all ) parts of the screen . To enable , first go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Guided Access . Then once you 're in the app , just triple tap the home button . See <URL> for more information or check out <URL> .
Specifically the browse button is disabled because there is n't a file browser ( like Windows Explorer/Finder ) on the iPhone . Most people do n't notice that , because the iOS is designed around avoiding the need for a user interface to the iPhone 's file system . For simplicity 's sake file management is turned into a programing problem instead of a user problem . For security 's sake applications ca n't directly access the documents of other applications . As Jawa mention , a lot of sites have iPhone applications to allow uploads .
No He will be stuck on IOS 4 most popular apps have support for ios5 or higher I have a 3g 16gb too old espically for a newbie . Get the 3GS unlocked version if you want to be cheap / most bang for bucks . He wil be stuck on EDGE until Tmobile finishes adding 3g Support for unlocked iphones . They have done a few cities google which ones 16/32gb 3GS is the best in my opinion . Favcetime and stuff is impossible over 3g unless you can find a ip4 off contract for sub 200 dollars then get tyhat i used 4 different iphones on tmobile 2g 3g 3gs ip4 been with them since 2001
Gifting only works from iTunes on a computer . Perhaps it could be added if enough people ask to spend money that way . <URL> You can also gift from store apps with iOS 6 .
I found Safari use mobile UA to get mobile HTML to get mobile Apple Touch Icon to set Desktop Safari favorite bar .
On MacOS 10.10 , " Find My Friends " can be accessed by clicking " Details " when viewing a friend in the Messages application . You can also share screens via " Details " as well , from the desktop Messages app .
I do n't know of an effective solution . One approach could be trying to process the iTunes Library metadata files to see if you can extract the raw filenames from that . There are some third party programs that read your iTunes Library . There 's an one open source library called <URL> that does that . In addition to this , I can think of a workaround requiring some work . Not sure if it will work for you : Remove all apps from iTunes without deleting the files . Re-add the complete folder . Re-delete all the apps you do n't want from iTunes , making sure you chose to delete them from disk as well .
There is <URL> that explains the issue in more detail , but for all intents and purposes if you purchased a CDMA iPhone from a carrier then you will be 100 % out of luck ; you simply can not use another provider 's SIM card . The only way you could ever expect to use a CDMA iPhone with another GSM network is to get a factory unlocked phone directly from Apple . But if you get any CDMA phone from a provider like Verizon , Sprint or Virgin Mobile you are basically locked into their CDMA network . No chance to just pop another carrier 's SIM card in there to get GSM service from someone else .
You do n't . ( not without jail breaking iOS ) More sadly , we 've gone from the situation on iOS 4 - > 5 - > 6 - > iOS 7 and still can not choose what certificates are trusted by the OS . This is either a bug in the iPhone configuration utility or an unimplimented feature . If you care , do reach out to apple to ask for this . <URL> or <URL> Unless you are comfortable writing a technically correct bug , the feedback link is a better avenue . Calling AppleCare or asking for this at the genius bar might also be worthwhile .
It appears that this functionality has been removed . There used to be a sidebar box with the ability to contact Apple regarding adding your work to any of the download lists on Apple.com . However , this box no longer appears on the page . Also , the linked page from the old submit link in the box above no longer appears to be functional : <URL> This seems to match the fact that no new calendars have been uploaded for years .
The digitiser is built into the glass with epoxy , so no , there is no way to separate it . <URL> . If you look at the lower left corner of the LCD you can see the scarring of our attempts to seperate the LCD from the digitizer . Source : <URL>
end question
start question
How can I prevent iOS 7 from downloading to iOS 6 devices ?
Apple uses the following hostnames for distributing OTA updates : mesu.apple.com appldnld.apple.com Blocking access to these hostnames should prevent iOS from downloading the updates , resulting in one of the following errors , based on whether the device has knowledge of the update or not before the access is blocked : Software Update Failed : An error occurred downloading iOS 7 . Software Update Unavailable : Software Update is not available at this time . Try again later . Unable to Check for Update : An error occurred while checking for a software update . iOS devices use the following XML file to find the relevant update and download file : <URL> Blocking access just to this file should be sufficient providing that the devices have no knowledge of the update prior to your blocking .
In general , you will need to jailbreak ( if that 's even possible on the new iOS ) the device to revert the OS . iOS upgrades ( OTA or via iTunes ) are one way and have been that way ( unable to downgrade ) since the 1.0 . Hopefully someone will see your plea for help once they know if and how a jailbreak will work . In the past you needed to get shsh keys from Apple and there was a limited window after updates to get the old keys . If this is so , time is of the essence for you . I have n't been keeping up on jailbreaking enough to even recommend a wiki or reputable source other than to recommend you search the internet . Of course if someone has n't already asked a how to jailbreak iOS 6 question here , you are free to ask that question as well or edit that into this question .
Indeed @cksum appears to be correct . I just tested this on my dev device that 's never had Facebook installed . The app said that it knew my location and showed the blue location icon , but did n't show in the list of apps in Location Services . I pressed ' send ' and got the ' Facebook wants to use your location ' message , which I accepted and now the app is in the list and allowed me to switch it off . In conclusion , yes it appears that Facebook does n't request the actual location data until you press send , at which point the app is added to the list in Settings .
Attempting to reset your jailbroken phone from your phone will break everything . You 'll need to put your device in DFU mode and restore it with iTunes . Connect your device to iTunes , then hold the power and home button until the Apple logo shows , then keep holding home and let go of power . iTunes should prompt you to restore iOS .
The iOS 7 agenda has n't been removed , but it 's not as intuitively easy to find . To see your agenda : In the month view , tap on any date to bring it to hourly view , then tap the icon ( bullets with lines next to the search icon ) this will allow you to toggle back and forth between hourly and agenda list view .
Scroll to the bottom of the playlist . There is a " Download All " button with the cloud download icon . Tap and wait . Unfortunately , I do n't believe there is a way to scroll to the bottom in one gesture , so if the playlist is long , you 'll have to repeatedly swipe until you reach the bottom .
Spelling is determined by the keyboard setting you 're using . Go to Settings > General > International > Keyboards , and make sure that English ( UK ) is added . It also helps to remove the US keyboard so that you do n't accidentally get stuck in that .
You will have to download the GM seed from the Developer Portal to move off the Beta . This will once again be a complete clean and restore so make sure your backups are up to date before starting . Barring any last minute showstoppers the GM build will be the released version .
This is a legitimate bug with Siri : <URL> The bug has to be fixed on Apple 's end ( or Yahoo 's , or wherever exactly the problem is occurring ) . But you can work around it temporarily by asking for the weather in " Zip Code 10028 " ( or whatever ) . Note that you seem to have to say " Zip Code " - just using the number does n't seem to work . That 's a bit surprising that you 're seeing it now since it first popped up almost three weeks ago -- you 'd think they would have fixed it by now . I guess all you can do is wait and it 'll resolve itself at some point .
Open the Settings app . Tap on General . Tap on International . Tap on Keyboard . Tap on Add New Keyboard . Tap on Emoji . To switch to it on the keyboard , tap the globe icon between and the microphone icon . I 'd say that 's easier than downloading a third-party anything on Android . Plus it was included already 2 years ago with iOS 5 .
Apple uses the following hostnames for distributing OTA updates : mesu.apple.com appldnld.apple.com Blocking access to these hostnames should prevent iOS from downloading the updates , resulting in one of the following errors , based on whether the device has knowledge of the update or not before the access is blocked : Software Update Failed : An error occurred downloading iOS 7 . Software Update Unavailable : Software Update is not available at this time . Try again later . Unable to Check for Update : An error occurred while checking for a software update . iOS devices use the following XML file to find the relevant update and download file : <URL> Blocking access just to this file should be sufficient providing that the devices have no knowledge of the update prior to your blocking .
You can downgrade by following the steps <URL> ( it 's for iOS 7 beta , but will work for the release version too ) . Keep in mind that Apple usually stops signing the older version of iOS shortly after the release of a new version . Until the time Apple continues signing iOS 6 , you will be able to downgrade the OS . Nobody can predict when Apple would stop signing iOS 6 . Once Apple stops signing iOS 6 , it would n't be possible to downgrade ( unless you look or wait for jailbreaks , hacks and such solutions , which would depend on the iPhone model you have ) .
iOS at its core now has its own multitasking API built in . The only way for an app to even go into the background it has to use these API 's , so even poor programming experience still ca n't ruin things too much ( and , with the flip side of that , poor developer experience could make the app while its running use more resources than needed ) . All in all - this should n't be an issue . Those apps in the tray do n't mean they are running - it literally is also a recently used app tray . And again , the background tasks they can do are limited by the backgrounding API , so like audio , VOIP , navigation , uploads , etc. . As far as being faster , have longer battery life , etc - no . At least not on an average . You may feel that it runs different , and yes there may be a rouge app doing something odd , and forcing it closed may help . But in general , no - this should n't affect speed or battery life , unless those apps are currently doing background tasks such as location , audio , uploading files , etc. . Otherwise , their RAM state is saved for quicker relaunch , but no processing power is being used .
You do n't have to create separate Apple ID 's for the iPhone because iMessage also works by using the phone number . However if you have two wi-fi only iPad 's or iPod touch 's then you will just have to use separate e-mail address .
None of what you want is possible . And it never will be possible until suddenly Apple and Microsoft get married and the marriage is watched on live television by more than 50 million people worldwide .
There is no need to jailbreak . An application like <URL> will do the trick , if you have a MacOS X computer . Just make sure you turn off encryption for the backup .
It looks like every app determines what to show on its notifications ; I do n't see a global switch . You can , however , turn the lock screen notification off . Find it on Settings > Notifications > [ App ] , look for " Show on lock screen " and turn it off to disallow the app to show its notifications when the phone is locked . Skype does not have the " Show Previews " switch available at the Notifications settings for Messages -- and I ca n't find anything about that subject on the <URL> , but <URL> of <URL> <URL> the <URL> with no response -- so it appears that each app controls what it 's shown on the notification .
If the problem you 're experiencing is that the iPad connections trigger a New iPad activation dialog , you can turn this off by typing this terminal command when iTunes is not running : You can turn on the new iPad Activation dialog with this command : Remember , iTunes can not be running when either of these commands is run .
It seems you missed the " Read Me Before Downloading " section at the top of the 4.3 beta page : Devices updated to iOS 4.3 beta can not be restored to earlier versions of iOS . Devices will be able to upgrade to future beta releases and the final iOS 4.3 software . According to Apple , anyway , no , you ca n't revert to 4.2 .
If I recall correctly - perhaps others can help flesh out any missing details - the setup wizard primarily lets you sign in with / sign up for an Apple ID to use for iCloud , it asks you to agree to the iCloud Terms of Service , and it asks about setting up Location Services . All of these can be accessed directly through the Settings app at any time . I do n't believe you will miss any important functionality by missing the wizard , especially if you were previously using your iPhone with iCloud in iOS5 .
end question
start question
What is a PPP server , and why do I keep getting disconnected from it ?
PPP is the Point to Point Protocol is a data link layer ( <URL> ) . It 's an older protocol that 's generally used to connect two points together over a physical link like a phone line . It 's been in use as a connection protocol ( mostly in the PPPoE -- PPP over Ethernet -- form ) for ISPs for quite some time now . Your modem uses this protocol to identify you as a customer to your ISP and create a tunnel to them over some larger network , through which your data will flow . Your modem establishes a PPP connection and then over this connection your Ethernet packets flow . It sounds like you 're disconnecting from your ISP at regular intervals . It could be any number of things causing you to lose your connection . You may have poor signal to the ISP end point and the connection is timing out . You may be overloading the connection and your ISP is dropping the link . Your ISP may be having issues . You may have failing or buggy hardware . Or you may have buggy drivers for your hardware . It 's impossible to tell exactly from what you 've written . If you can <URL> , see if there are related console messages about the PPP tunnel , you might be able to find something additionally useful to add to your question . Have you called your ISP ? That 's where I 'd start .
Type ( i.e. tilde , period ) at the beginning of a line . In other words , press Enter , then ~ , then . . ( In some languages , you may need to press Shift or Alt to enter the character . ) Generally speaking , the character is an escape character in an SSH session when you type it at the beginning of a line . Type Enter then to see the list of escape commands . The most common ones are to terminate the connection ( press ~ then Ctrl + Z ) to suspend the connection and type a command locally ( run the command to return to the SSH session ) If you want a tilde at the beginning of a line , press ~ twice .
Can you use VNC ( or ARD or some other remote desktop software ) to remote into a server to do development work ? Short answer is " yes . " However , it is a royal PITA . I use VNC to administer my OS X machines on my gigabit LAN and I can tell you that the lag is infuriating . Trying to do development work , I can only imagine it being a nightmare . What worked for my developers was that we had several MBPs that would float around the department depending on the project . For " quick " tasks VNC worked , but when they needed to be heads down on a project , they would check out a MBP and use it for the duration of their task . The main thing to keep in mind is that people like what they like - Mac/Linux/Win . The " hotelling " concept is a nice goal , but not feasible for devs who spend their lives in front of a monitor . Ensuring work is accessible anywhere is the reason we have a cloud and GitHub . These are areas you should investigate thoroughly before you spend time trying to re-architect your infrastructure .
SIMBL is not a part of Apple 's Mac OS X package , but is an extension that can be used by other developers in their own work to extend applications where they may not have the original source code ( like Safari ) . SIMBL-related files can be found either in or .
I ended up following the instructions in the article I linked to in my original post to move my Time Machine backups to a new drive . It took 28 hours to transfer 1.9 TB of backups . I then ran Disk Utility " Verify Disk " on it and it was good . So , the errors did not transfer over . So now , I can just repartition the old drive to get rid of all the errors , which I will do after a few days of ensuring that this copy of my backups is indeed good . I later tested the transferred backup by reformatting my iMac and restoring from the TM backup , and it worked fine ( I 'm on it now ) .
There is no firewall on iOS and it does not block any ports that I am aware of . I 'd guess your issue has more to do with the fact that Bookman has n't been updated in over three years and some change in iOS 10 finally broke it . I 'm actually shocked it works at all . It sounds like you can use iTunes file sharing as an alternative , presuming that a recent iTunes update has n't caused that to stop working with this particular app .
From <URL> : You can use the Connect To Server command to connect to an FTP server in the Finder , but you will have read-only access . You can not copy , or upload , to an FTP volume in the Finder .
From a user level - the health app consumes data that is stored in the HealthKit framework . From the developer and hardware manufacturer side , HealthKit framework is an API for them to do things reading and writing the data so that what you describe is clearly possible . Even watch OS streams live data - so that 's a core feature of bluetooth low energy . Once the data is on iOS , it 's a matter of the developer placing it under health kit control . This is something Apple expects and allows with their code and SDK/API . Now , not all data can be written to all areas - for instance , Apple 's workout app does n't allow third party contributions on Watch OS 1.0 and 2.0 but it does allow workout data to be stored in the database along with the Apple watch workout app data .
I Just found <URL> with a google . Not used it but it says it can " sync your home and work computers -- even if they 're not connected -- by syncing them both with an external hard drive serving as a " shuttle " for your data . "
No you ca n't initiate a backup remotely , but you could log into iCloud on another device or a computer and look to see when the last iCloud backup of that device was completed to know what might be lost if you erase it . Also look in iTunes under the preferences for devices to see if you have a local backup of the device as well . On the iCloud preference pane for Mac , you can press the manage button next to the storage graph at the bottom of the window and inspect the date/time of the last backup for each device you have established .
If you need to logout so that another user can use the computer , you can enable Fast User Switching . The other user will be able to use the Mac , while your program still runs .
Open Applications - > Utilities - > Terminal Enter the following command : Type root password Quit Terminal
If you do not have auto arrange turned on ( and it says " Arrange by : None " , please try the following things . 1 ) If you are only experience problems on the Desktop , but not in any other finder window , please delete the preference file com.apple.desktop.plist from your user/library/preferences folder 2 ) If that does not solve problem , delete the . Ds_Store files in any folders you are having problems with , including the Desktop and let Lion recreate them 3 ) Lastly , as I mentioned in your other thread , this does seem to be a known problem in Lion . Please keep an eye on <URL> and <URL> for other solutions and/or possible resolution in a future Lion update .
Unless you 're planning on running an extremely heavy loaded ftp server ( which the mini wo n't be able to handle anyway ) the built in FTP Server should be enough . Pure-ftpd is a classic in the unix world and I 'm sure you can of course make that run under OSX , but it does n't have a " UI " , it 's all command line . ( But very easy to configure anyway ) .
It may be time to get a new Mac Pro . The processing units in these machines often do n't last forever . Otherwise , I would suggest backing up as many of your valuable files as you can , clearing your machine and reloading your OS from scratch ( i.e. Install DVD ) .
You have implied the reason in " the massively powerful primary processor " It takes electrical power to produce power in computing . Thus if you need something to be on all the time you want a smaller processor than the main one to save battery power .
I once was in a similar situation to what you described -- I 'm an American and brought my U.S. MacBook to the UK . A couple observations : U.S. keyboard layouts are substantially different from the UK ones . Many common punctuation characters , including quote marks , are mapped very differently . I found UK keyboards too awkward to use and did virtually all of my work on my own U.S. keyboards . U.S. keyboards do not include the pound sterling symbol or the negation symbol used in the UK . You can get them by using Option key combinations , but that can be a bit of a pain . As bmike mentioned , if you need a keyboard repair you 'll face a substantial delay . Someone spilled a drink on my MacBook in a pub towards the end of my stay , and about a third of the keyboard was shorted out ; when I took it in to an Apple Store , they warned me they would need to hold the computer for several days while replacement parts arrived . I could n't spare the laptop for that length of time , so I spent the last couple weeks of that trip using an external keyboard with my MacBook , and repaired it when I got home . ( That option , of course , wo n't be available to you . ) All in all , I do n't think I would recommend it for you . That # 150 is buying you freedom from a lot of hassles .
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 3 will screenshot the entire screen and save it to your desktop . ( You should hear a camera sound when you do this . ) ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 4 will give you crosshairs to use to select an area for copying . Move the crosshairs to the location that you want to copy and click the upper left , dragging the crosshairs to the lower right of the area you want . When you release , you will hear the same camera sound , and the screenshot will save to your desktop . Also , ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 4 , then Space , then clicking any window will save that window to a screenshot . To change the location of the saved screenshot , launch Terminal and use the following command : Make sure you change to be the location where you want your screenshots to go .
Yes . Hold the & #x 2325 ; key while booting up to select your install USB . Also note that if you upgrade to the most recent version of Lion you should get the recovery partition to boot up without having to use the USB ( internet connection required ) .
end question
start question
How much free space should there be on the start volume ?
According to <URL> written by Tom Nelson : I would say keep at least 15 % of your startup drive free at all times ... so that some basic OS X maintenance scripts will have sufficient free drive space to run . This includes OS X 's built-in disk defragmentation system , memory swap space , and enough space to create cache and temp files when OS X starts up , while still leaving room for basic applications , such as email and web browsers , to use free space as needed .
I would suggest that you try a few alert tones to see if any of them give you better performance . Volume dynamics vary from alert to alert . By going into the click app and tapping Alarm > Edit and selecting any alarm you will see the settings that you can change . One of the settings you can change for a given alarm is Sound . Tap this option to select the tone you would like to use . One tone you might find more to your liking is the one titled " Alarm " -- this tone is much more " explosive " than the standard " Marimba tone . You could also try recording your own tones in GarageBand . GarageBand has a project type for iPhone Ringtones . When you create your own ringtone you have much more control over the specifics of the ringtone and can even do things to increase the gain on the tone itself . Of course none of these tips will do anything to increase the actual power of the built in speakers ( which are necessarily small ) . One thing you could do to help in that regard is to think carefully about where you place your phone . Placing your phone in a glass cup at night ( while a bit dangerous in the morning when you go groping for it ) can increase the volume significantly . Hope that helps .
Note that there are usually two ways of installing applications on Mac OS X : A simple and common way is to send the user an application bundle . The user can copy it to whichever directory ( s ) he feels like it . Typically , applications are copied/moved to the / Applications directory and can be moved around the filesystem ( or to other filesystems ) . Another way is to provide an installer . Installers are helpful in case there 's need for pre - / post-flight scripts or specific directories . So , answering your questions : In Mac/Unix since there is no control panel , I could be installing same dmg again and again . I would never get repair option ? Although there is something similar to Control Panel , namely System Preferences.app , there is no stock application to manage applications ( list , install , remove ) . Since most users install applications to the / Applications directory , listing applications is done via inspecting the directory , installing applications is done via copying/moving application bundles to that directory , and removing applications is done via removing application bundles from that directory . Yes , it is possible for a user to install the same application repeatedly -- but I ca n't really imagine a use case for that . Maybe you 're asking this because of a ' repair option ' ? What would that do ? If you 're considering the case where an application bundle gets corrupted by some reason then it could be just a matter of copying the application bundle again . Why are Volume and mount required ? . Is n't the installation on unix like copying files to a target system ? . dmg volumes are not required to install applications . A developer/distributor can ship an application bundle in a . zip file , or a . tar file , or a compressed . tar file . Many developers prefer to ship applications via a . dmg volume because it is possible to customise the appearance of the volume when it is mounted -- custom background , custom icons , custom icon sizes , or a link to the / Applications directory to make it easier for the user to copy the application bundle to that location .
Sounds like you need a disk visualizer . There are several out there : <URL> ( free ) Disk Inventory X is a disk usage utility for Mac OS X 10.3 ( and later ) . It shows the sizes of files and folders in a special graphical way called " treemaps " . It is my personal favorite , as it is really simple and easy to use , as well as the great price of free ! <URL> ( $ 20 , currently on sale for $ 9.99 ) DaisyDisk scans your disks and presents their content as interactive maps where you can easily spot unusually large files and remove them to get more free space . The map gives you an overview of your data , so you always know what your hard disks are filled with . I do n't have personal experience with DaisyDisk , but it has been highly recommended by many people , including members of Ask Different . <URL> ( free ) GrandPerspective is a small utility application for Mac OS X that graphically shows the disk usage within a file system . It can help you to manage your disk , as you can easily spot which files and folders take up the most space . It uses a so called tree map for visualisation . Each file is shown as a rectangle with an area proportional to the file 's size . Files in the same folder appear together , but their placement is otherwise arbitrary . Again , no personal experience , but highly recommended by others .
According to <URL> written by Tom Nelson : I would say keep at least 15 % of your startup drive free at all times ... so that some basic OS X maintenance scripts will have sufficient free drive space to run . This includes OS X 's built-in disk defragmentation system , memory swap space , and enough space to create cache and temp files when OS X starts up , while still leaving room for basic applications , such as email and web browsers , to use free space as needed .
Finder does not take into account Time Machine 's Local Snapshots . The storage space of these local snapshots will be given to files if necessary and therefore the space is not actually being consumed . Daisy Disk sees these files though and takes them into account when calculating the free space . You can disable local snapshots by turning off Time Machine completely , or to retain Time Machine functionality without local snapshots you can run the following command :
You can change this in System Preferences . Go to the Sound pane , and uncheck the checkbox . Also , if you want to not play the sound for a given change ( a one-off thing ) , hold down shift and change the volume . This will also play the sound if it 's turned off .
From the Terminal app you can use the program ( secure remove ) . Simply start Terminal , then type : For more info , take a look at the <URL> . Excerpt : srm removes each specified file by overwriting , renaming , and truncating it before unlinking . This prevents other people from undeleting or recovering any information about the file from the command line .
You can do that with Network locations . You can defined for example two profiles : work ( fixed IP ) and home ( DHCP ) . As you said chancing the location from is tedious . However you can do the same from the menu : > .
You can try : <URL> ( free one ) <URL> ( paid one )
It does n't look like there is a direct AppleScript dictionary for working with Bluetooth this way . You could use GUI scripting though , which basically uses the accessibility feature of the Mac OS to select menu items , etc. . A great writeup on how to start with GUI AppleScript is available on <URL> . GUI automation can be difficult if you have a constantly changing list of things , but if you commonly have a list of bluetooth items connected that stays the same you should be ok . You could then call this AppleScript through Alfred .
This only gives you one more notch below 1 , but it might do as much as you need it to . Use the decrease volume button to lower the volume to 0 . Then , press the Mute button once . This will let sound play , but at a lower volume than 1 . Also , you can change the volume in 1/4 increments with the following shortcuts : ⇧ + ⌃ + volume buttons in Snow Leopard ⇧ + option + volume buttons in Lion or later
Try <URL> . The last time I tried it , it was pretty quick ( quicker than OpenOffice ) and according to the website , can open files .
Per the <URL> , the dismount option could be added to your shutdown script . or
Apparently Apple Watch has Airplane Mode , which turns off both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi . [ To ] Turn on Airplane Mode . Swipe up on the watch face , swipe to the Settings glance , then tap the Airplane Mode button . The Connected status at the top of the screen changes to Disconnected . Or open the Settings app settings icon , then tap Airplane Mode . When Airplane Mode is on , you 'll see [ Airplane mode icon ] at the top of the screen . Source : <URL> .
a ) figure out how much space Photostream is occupying on the device Go to settings General - > Usage wait until the top is done and then click on Photos and Camera The next page under Photo and Camera has the space used for Camera Roll , Photo Library , and the Photo Stream . b ) reduce space . After taking photos you can edit and crop , delete the ones that you do not want . It saves the last 1000 photos for 30 days so if you take a lot of photos , copy them when you can . Photo stream is there for you to easily sync your photos from one device to all . After you have the photo , copy it to your mac and remove them from your photo stream . After 30 days or over 1000 photos you might start to lose photos .
Menu > About this Mac Then the Storage tab For cleanup , <URL> exists for Mac ; there 's also <URL> &amp; a whole raft of others . I would n't particularly recommend any of them , as they 've all been known to throw out the wrong bit , just like on Windows .
The iOS 7 description of Do Not Disturb states ( accessible over Settings > Do Not Disturb ) When Do Not Disturb is enabled calls and alerts that arrive while locked will be silenced , and a moon icon will appear in the status bar . So DND should not cancel incoming calls . This seems to be an ongoing problem/bug on the <URL> .
If you are not afraid of using , you can run to get the size of each application .
The only way I have found to eliminate the " other " space on in iPhone is to do a full restore , which wipes the device , reinstalls iOS , and then allows you to restore from backup . Just click ' Restore ' in iTunes : <URL>
end question
start question
Where is a dmg file mounted ?
All volumes , including DMGs , are mounted in . You can get a list of mounted volumes by typing in Terminal . You can navigate to a Disk Image using .
You can store the contents of your current Address Book in an archive ( . abbu ) restore the contents of the old file . purge the entries you do n't want to keep export the remaining ones the current archive file ( created in step 1 ) import the file from step 4
Select the song in iTunes and type & #x 21E7 ; + & #x 2318 ; + R to trigger Show in Finder . Alternatively , you can also right-click the item in iTunes and choose this option from the contextual menu . From there , you can navigate up the folder hierarchy by holding the & #x 2318 ; - key and clicking on the folder in the window title bar . You might also want to enable Show Path bar in finder .
Look for the " Stand " menu to appear between the " Window " and " Help " menus in your top menu bar .
If you absolutely have to use a Mac to open the xdi file , and you have Parallels or some other virtual environment that can run Windows , you can install WinArchiver and open the file that way . As far as I know there is no utility for Mac that can open xdi files because they are created using WinArchiver which is a Windows only app .
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
A DMG can be set to display a license agreement before it will allow you to open it . This is normal and nothing to be alarmed about . Once you accept the license agreement , it will mount and open the normal Finder window showing its contents . See <URL> . There is no way to disable it and nothing is being auto-run .
You can use the <URL> utility1 which adds an option to " print " , from Preview or any other app , to generate a second pdf file with the pages arranged appropriately to print and bind as a booklet . When printing the resulting pdf booklet , remember to select " Two-Sided : Short-Edge binding " in the " Layout " options of the print dialog . 1 . No longer free , $ 9.99 on the App Store as of 09/2015 .
Try this variation on what its stated there : Run bootcamp to allocate the space 2 - Install W7 Go back to OSX ( Install REFIT or similar as bootmanager ( optional ) ) Restore your DMG image over the W7 partition With this you dont need the fdisk commands as bootcamp should mark the partition as active ( bootable ) . This SHOULD work . The problem with the linked page process is that w7 ( just as osx ) is actually in 2 partitions , a small boot one and a large with the OS , your DMG only contains the OS partition .
What version of CorelDRAW ? What 's the workflow ? . CDR is a proprietary format , so I 'm not aware of any proper supported exporters . The <URL> reverse-engineered the format , and claims to have the best support . But since recent versions of CorelDRAW can <URL> , I think you would get the best results to just save it as . ai and import it into CorelDRAW .
If you do n't want to use , you can edit your crontab as you would do on any unix systems : crontab - e Or , you can use a GUI software like <URL> .
This is not where your password is stored . At least by the system , no way . I do n't have one there , which tells me you have a 3rd-party app that 's doing this . Take a close look .
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
Software Update checks and updates both your running Lion and your recovery partition , so that in the event of a significant security issue booting to the recovery partition wo n't instantly open you up to attack . ( Compare booting unpatched Windows XP from DVD or a vendor recovery partition for recovery purposes ; it has severe security issues fixed by service packs . I 'm not picking on Windows here ; XP 's quite old at this point , and was the biggest target out there for years , and security is a rapidly moving target . ) Given the recent growth in Mac malware , this is a good thing .
Actually , All My Files is a folder , but not the way you 'd expect it to be . It exists at the path . It is a special type of folder , called a bundle , that has an extension . You can usually access the inner part of these by right-clicking and choosing " Show Package Contents " , but with All My Files you ca n't due to Finder 's special treatment of it . The bundle contains a file called which is just a Smart Folder property list . This is a search for all files within your home directory . In your case , this does n't matter , because when you drag something into the All My Files folder , it goes to . The odd thing about this is it only happens for All My Files , and not other Smart Folders , which do n't allow you to drag-and-drop files into them .
always is your home folder ( for instance ) . If ~ / . vim exists , that 's where you 'll find it . Unless you 've used vim before , the folder likely will not already exist , so to create the folder , open Terminal.app and type Assuming you downloaded ColorSamplerPack.zip to your Downloads folder you can then proceed with to unpack the content into the folder . A restart of gvim may be required afterwards . On second thought , the same result can be accomplished by just opening Terminal.app and executing
Pasteboard is handled by process on OS X. Things which are copied are stored inside address space . More about that is on Apple <URL> article . Whether the data is transferred between objects in the same application or two different applications , in a Cocoa application the interface is the same -- an NSPasteboard object accesses a shared repository where writers and readers meet to exchange data . The writer , referred to as the pasteboard owner , deposits data on a pasteboard instance and moves on . The reader then accesses the pasteboard asynchronously , at some unspecified point in the future . By that time , the writer object may not even exist anymore . For example , a user may have closed the source document or quit the application . Consequently , when moving data between two different applications , and therefore two different address spaces , a third memory space gets involved so the data persists even in the absence of the source . NSPasteboard provides access to a third address space -- a pasteboard server process ( pbs ) -- that is always running in the background . The pasteboard server maintains an arbitrary number of individual pasteboards to distinguish among several concurrent data transfers .
You are right to leave media in the original location to help save space . Beyond this setting , take a look at your Library 's settings . Manage Storage Locations Final Cut Pro is likely <URL> of your original media . By default , these temporary files are stored within your Final Cut Pro libraries . You can change the location of temporary files , see <URL> . When you finish working on a project , ask Final Cut Pro to delete all associated runtime created files : Final Cut Pro.app > File ( menu ) > Delete Generated Library Files ... <URL> This will dramatically reduce the file size of your library .
Apple iPhoto '11 Let 's not forget that <URL> costs $ 15 in the Mac App Store , and that it has processing tools for RAW as well as frequently-updated profiles for working with many makes and models of cameras that produce RAW image files . Google Picasa <URL> is free and supports many RAW formats . Canon Digital Photo Professional version 3.11.26 is compatible with Mac OS X Lion . If you already own an earlier version that came with your Canon camera , you can download the updater from canon.com for free . Otherwise , here is how you can get it : <URL> comes on a CD with a suite of programs called Canon Digital Camera Solutions Disk ver . 38.1 . I recently bought a used Canon Powershot G10 whose seller did not provide the original software sold with a new Canon . So I called up Canon 's customer service , explained that I bought a used Canon , and asked them if I could purchase their tools on CD . They sold me the suite for US $ 20 plus tax and shipping ( it came to $ 27 ) . ... you may purchase the latest Canon Digital Camera Software Solutions disc for your camera through Canon USA 's Customer Support Center at 1-800-828-4040 . Residents of other countries should contact their regional Canon customer support center for further assistance . I installed the whole suite on Mac OS X Lion , then downloaded the latest updates from canonusa.com to make sure they were compatible with Lion . The suite includes Canon Digital Photo Professional , for processing RAW images , a batch-file processing utility called Canon Digital Photo Professional Batch , the Canon Image Browser for general photo management , and Photostitch for making panoramas .
These steps assume that you already have purchased OS X 10.9 through the Mac App Store . Open the Mac App Store Press the Alt Key and hold it during the following steps Click at the purchased tab Scroll to OS X Mavericks Click at the Download button If you already have OS X Mavericks installed , you will be asked if you want to continue Click continue Now , you can release the Alt Key To get the dmg file : 1 . Go to the downloaded install application in the applications folder 2 . Control + click on the installer , and choose Show Package Contents , and choose Show Package Contents . 3 . Navigate to 4 . The file you are looking for is called If you need a file , you have to <URL>
end question
start question
How can I retrieve a saved WiFi password from iOS 7 and newer ?
There is a jailbreak application called <URL> . It 's free by <URL> in the BigBoss Cydia repository . It allows you to view all of the passwords for the networks that you 've joined ( including usernames for WPA2 Enterprise networks ) .
I solved this by creating a separate iPhoto Library and storing that Library within a password-protected encrypted sparse image . ( You create sparse images using Disk Utility . ) I 've appended a step-by-step tutorial to the end of this answer . I then created an alias to the private library and stored that alias in my Pictures folder alongside my regular libraries . To open the private Library , double click on the alias icon . You will be prompted for a password so that the encrypted image can mount on the desktop . When you 're done , be sure to " eject " the disk image . iPhoto defaults to opening the last Library opened so if you want the program to open the " regular " file next time , go ahead and open that Library . ( You can either double click it 's Library icon or open iPhoto while holding down the Option key . ) I 've just developed the habit of opening iPhoto using the appropriate Library icon from my Pictures folder . The disadvantage of this method is that you ca n't mix " private " images into your iPhone sync and it 's possible that leaving iPhoto with the wrong " default " library could interfere with an iOS sync . ( I use Aperture for my main photo collection/iOS sync anyway , so I have n't fully explored this . ) Creating an encrypted , Password-Protected iPhoto Library -- Step-by-Step The reality is that many of us have pictures we want to keep but do n't necessarily want to share with partners , children or grandparents . What happens at Burning Man stays at Burning Man . Right ? To keep those pictures from prying eyes -- and inadvertant display on your big screen TV via AppleTV -- I advocate using a separate iPhoto library for your private pictures and protecting that library by storing it inside an encyrpted container . I 'm keying this tutorial to Mac OS X 10.7 Lion and iPhoto '11 ( current at time of writing ) but this system will work for previous versions of the software . ( To a point -- the encrypted disk image was added to the OS in 10.3 . ) You can use this method to safeguard Aperture libraries as well . Open your existing iPhoto Library and select the images you want to put into the encrypted library . One way of doing this is to <URL> to those pictures . I used fmeo ( short for for my eyes only ) . Next <URL> that includes the images you tagged . Export or copy the tagged images into a folder on your desktop . Leave the images in your original iPhoto Library until you 're sure you 've sucessfully completed this entire process -- but do n't forget to go back and delete the images once you 're satisfied with the results . Next you need to <URL> for your private images . Quit iPhoto if it 's open . Open iPhoto while holding the Option key down . Create a new library from the dialog box displayed . I named mine FMEO . I strongly suggest you not give it a name like Pictures I Do n't Want My Spouse To See because the filename will be visible in the Finder if follow my complete plan . Import the images you want to protect into iPhoto ( making sure you 're using the FMEO library ) and organize them as you see fit . When you 're happy with the results , quit iPhoto . You can safely delete the Finder folder containing these images . Use <URL> if you 're concerned that someone will try to recover the deleted files . So far , all you 've done is created a separate library for your private photos . It is n't protected in any way . In fact , assuming the FMEO library was the last library used , iPhoto will display your private images the next time it 's opened . The secret to keeping those images from prying eyes is to store the library inside an encrypted container . Fortunately , Apple provides everything you need to create this container free of charge in OS X ( 10.3 + ) . Open Disk Utility . ( It 's in your Utilities folder . ) Create an <URL> : Choose New > Blank Disk Image from the menu Enter a name . Again , be discreet as this name will definitely be visible from the Finder . Choose a size for your container . It must be big enough to contain the current library and , assuming you want the ability to add images in the future , should allow ample room for future growth . You can afford to be a little generous with this because you 're going to use a <URL> image format , meaning the container will initially only take up as much disk space as its contents plus a little overhead and will grow ( but never shrink ) as necessary up to it 's maximum formatted size . Do n't worry too much about creating an image that you might outgrow someday as you can always create a new sparse image file and transfer the library into a bigger home if your library becomes too large . For Format Just use the default Mac OS X Extended ( Journaled ) unless you have a compelling reason not to . Same for Parition settings , just leave them be unless you know better . Encryption : I 'd suggest 128-bit ( more than adequate for most purposes ) but you 're free to use a higher level if you think it 's necessary . Click Create button . Enter a good password when prompted . Do not store the password in the keychain because that would
You can leave in-app purchases on if you wish . Once you have enabled then at the bottom of the second section , you will see and underneath they even have a little prompt . Change this from the default of to and your problem is fixed .
If you have single WiFi card then you can not use it for receiving and sending WiFi . If your internet comes from cable ( Ethernet ) or from a USB - WiFi , then those can be shared using your WiFi card .
This appears to be fixed in iOS7 - I set the DHCP Gateway to 0.0.0.0 and the iPad connects with a tickbox rather than leaving the spinning circle .
Since there are a lot of causes - let 's try to narrow down some things . If you are on Snow Leopard - you can get some more detail on the MacBook to know if there is interference or if there is potentially a hardware error . Hold the option ( or alt ) key and press the WiFi icon in the menu ( you 'll have to add it if it 's not in the menu for this testing . ) All the mac cares about is transmit rate - it 's the best number to tell how much data your mac thinks it can send reliably to the router . The higher the rate , the better . A high transmit rate is all that matters - even if the signal is weak , you still have a good connection if you have a solid transmit rate . Next is RSSI - it 's less intuitive . I tell people think of sunlight into the ocean . If you are -20 feet below the surface it 's really light . RSSI of -100 is really dark / really faint signal . In ideal environment - no noise , good antennas on both mac and router and good amplifiers reading the singals - you can still operate at -100 , but any interference or extra distance , you could stop getting a signal . Different macs have different RSSI - so if you have a close match in hardware you can be sure the problem is the mac by comparing with another . If not , it 's more guesswork . Your iPhone WiFi antenna is likely 10 times as big as the Mac 's antenna so it 's looking more like a signal issue than anything else . I hope this helps you decide what next steps to take to find the cause . You can change the router , change the physical location or change the hardware . If a repair shop is close , maybe try a diagnosis there . If not , you 'll have to take the mac to other locations with that router and try changing the things you can control . It 's not likely software since moving the mac closer to the router does n't change the software , but you might check for updates if some new firmware does better with interference or error handling . It 's a long shot so I list it last . EDIT - I am home and can report some transmit rates . On my older equipment , transmit rates of 24 to 54 are seen on an old linksys 802.11 b router . My MacBook Pro gets transmit rates of 200 to 300 pretty much all around the house . Even when I have one bar in the menu bar for airport signal strength , these transmit rates stay high as the RSSI goes to -90 ( which is getting far away from the base station )
Maybe you have authorized Macs you no longer have . Go to your account in iTunes , under Apple ID Overview you can see how many computers you have authorized and ( once a year ) you can deauthorize all , after that you should be able to reauthorize your Macs . ( This does not affect iOS devices , as they do not count towards your 5 devices limit )
UPDATE : I answered my own question as follows : I bought an Apple Airport Express and set it up on my building 's wifi . Then , I connected it by ethernet cable to my Airport Extreme 's WAN port . My Airport Extreme is still functioning just as it always has , broadcasting my local wifi network . I 've been testing this for over a week now and it 's been flawless . Best of all , the current Airport Express model can be found on ebay for under $ 40 shipped .
You will have to download the GM seed from the Developer Portal to move off the Beta . This will once again be a complete clean and restore so make sure your backups are up to date before starting . Barring any last minute showstoppers the GM build will be the released version .
The <URL> article pegs it at 600MB difference on the iPhone 5 . DEVICE SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 7.1.2 ) SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 8.0 GM ) 32GB iPhone 4S ( AT&T ) 27.4 GB 26.6 GB 32GB iPhone 5 ( VZW ) 27.3 GB 26.7 GB 32GB iPhone 5C ( AT&T ) 27.2 GB 26.5 GB 64GB iPhone 5S ( AT&T ) 56.0 GB 55.1 GB
The thing about these limits is that the carriers and iPhone models are all different . For instance , the iPhone 5 should theoretically be able to handle up to 14 connections , but both AT&amp;T and Verizon limits it to 5 . As far as I have understood , it is hardware-limited , and therefore it is not affected by iOS version . I have started on a list which anyone may suggest an edit to if they come up with new information . Feel free to comment as well . iPhone 3GS supports up to two peers combined through USB and Bluetooth-tethering . <URL> iPhone 4 : <URL> , <URL> AT&amp;T - version supports up to three Wi-Fi peers , three via Bluetooth , and one USB peer . Verizon-version supports up to five Wi-Fi peers , three via Bluetooth , and one USB peer . iPhone 4S supports up to five Wi-Fi peers . Unconfirmed iPhone 5 supports up to five Wi-Fi peers . ( AT&amp;T and Verizon confirmed <URL> ) iPad 3rd gen is currently unknown . iPad mini is currently unknown . iPad 4th gen is currently unknown . Please note that Apple have not disclosed any of these limitations , they <URL> : The maximum number of supported connections may vary depending on your carrier or iPhone model . Apple have also stated in <URL> about all iPhone-versions and the third-gen iPad that : Depending on your wireless carrier and , the maximum number of Wi-Fi connections may be limited to three at one time .
There is no reason this should not work . Assuming your model supports iOS 7 of course . I 'd like to be able to tell you more . But there is just not much to say . The lock to a certain provider is not affected by an upgrade to iOS 7 . Provider settings will just be the same as well .
There is little hope unless one or both of the editors squirrel away copies of the file for you or embed the undo buffer in the document . It really depends on the editors and the settings . One last ditch effort is to use the command . If that file had a memorable string or misspelling you could see in an instant if any files on the disk contain that string . If you search for a common string , you 'll have a lot of false positives , but it 's worth a shot . In this case , even software that recovers deleted files wo n't be of use when another editor truncates the file . It was shredded and not simply deleted On a personal note , We all learn this lesson about data loss in a personal way , usually many times over . It 's not overkill to have both version control and an automated backup system . Time Machine is marvelous in that it makes hourly snapshots so you lose at most an hours work . Files that have been around for [ a day | a week ] are saved for [ a month | until the drive fills ] . It really works well in practice , and if you have local backups , you might even have snapshots more often than one an hour to recover a file . Sorry to hear you lost work , it 's never a good feeling .
I 'm having the exact same problem . I tried holding the option key when rebooting to see if I could boot from the USB key but I could not find a way to do this , so I installed <URL> ( then rebooted twice ! ) and THEN plugged in the USB key and the next time I rebooted it did show up as an option to boot from the USB key . I tried that and the windows installer loaded and it found the new bootcamp FAT32 partition . It said I could n't install to the bootcamp partition because it requires NTFS . <URL> suggests " simply format the partition using the Windows installer 's built-in utility ( in other words , as part of the installation process ) " so I did that continued with the install and everything works fine !
According to <URL> , there is no way to turn off burst mode . This can be quite handy for catching just the right shot . However , for those of you that had learned to stabilize your camera by holding down the shutter button instead of tapping it , this can result in a lot of unexpected pictures . This feature appears to be enabled full-time whether you want it or not , so we 'll all need to simply learn to adapt . Or delete . A lot . Here are a couple of alternatives : Tap the shutter button instead of pressing it for long Use third party camera apps
Assuming that the InstallESD.dmg is on the windows 7 computer : Copy the InstallESD.dmg file onto the USB drive ( just copy , not burning etc ) Boot into the MacBook 's Recovery Partition . Plug in the USB drive and open disk utility . Restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on the USB drive * Restart and boot from the USB Drive . * You might not be able to restore from an image that on the drive being restored . In which case use 2 USB drives ( one to copy the InstallESD.dmg from the PC and one to restore it to and boot from ) or : open terminal from the Utilities menu in the recovery partition ( on the homescreen ) . Use to find the location of your hard drive and USB drive Use to copy the InstallESD.dmg to you hard drive . ( e.g. , where you replace the paths with the ones found in step 2 ) Open Disk Utility and restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on your hard drive , if you ca n't find your hard drive in the Open dialog , press cmd + shift + g and you can enter the path manually . Or if your USB CD drive can burn DVDs and you have a DVD , you could use the USB drive to copy from windows and then use the Macbook 's Disk Utility to burn the image to the DVD . ( or use the DVD to copy from the PC and use the USB drive to boot )
Indeed @cksum appears to be correct . I just tested this on my dev device that 's never had Facebook installed . The app said that it knew my location and showed the blue location icon , but did n't show in the list of apps in Location Services . I pressed ' send ' and got the ' Facebook wants to use your location ' message , which I accepted and now the app is in the list and allowed me to switch it off . In conclusion , yes it appears that Facebook does n't request the actual location data until you press send , at which point the app is added to the list in Settings .
No . A device technician is needed to unlock firmware . Start with online AppleCare and they can go over your options . Find My Mac just handles user account passwords .
After being told on the Apple Discussion boards that this ca n't be done , I found a solution . I re-entered all the original log in information into the account details . It took a bit to get them to stick , because iPad kept trying to verify the account , which it could n't do , because the legacy server was n't responding , but I finally got it . Once the I had the original credentials entered , all the original Inbox and Sent emails were back . One important key : Although I did n't change my email address , the new server did require a different username syntax . The old username was just " name " while the new username was " name@mydomain.com " . That little change is what caused iPad to decide it was an entirely different account .
Nope . It 's impossible to upgrade iOS firmware without connecting to the Apple servers . Currently , there is a jailbreak for iOS 8.1 using <URL> which is being signed at the moment . iOS 8.1.1 update which is due in a few weeks will patch the jailbreak . It could be the right moment to upgrade your iOS version and re-jailbreak it . <URL> that the current iOS 8 jailbreak is stable .
end question
start question
Can i use iPhoto to trim my photos ?
In contrast to Lizzan , I suggest you do it with iPhoto . So the answer is yes , you can do it with iPhoto . The reason why I suggest it is because iPhoto never destroys your image ! It keeps the original image as it is and saves your changes to a separate file . You can always restore your original image . I do n't know the OS you 're using but prior to ( I think ) Lion there is no Version feature so returning to your original image is impossible . So here 's how you do it : <URL> You could crop the region you like and then save it as a new image . Then go back to your original and take the next region ...
Unlike the Time Capsule , the Airport Extreme does n't support being a backup destination , no matter what drive you use . It is possible to <URL> , but this is unsafe - the AEBS lacks features that help protect data , and without them , the slightest network error can make your backups useless . Some of the technical reasons for this have been explored here : <URL> However , you can look for a network-attached drive that supports Time Machine , such as WD 's My Book Live . These are drives that attach by ethernet instead of USB , and they implement the file-sharing features that Time Machine requires .
iPhoto stores its Library in your User-Directory . The Path : ~ / Pictures / Right-Click on the Package , and then select " Show Package Contnet " to view your pictures ! Or , right-Click on a picture in iPhoto , and select " Show in Finder "
In iPhoto , turn Photo Stream off then on . Go to Preferences > Photo Stream . Uncheck " Enable Photo Stream " . Close the preferences window . Click Photo Stream in the left-hand navigation pane and confirm there are no photos . Turn Photo Stream back on in preferences ( check " Enable Photo Stream " ) . After a few seconds , iPhoto will start to download all the photos again . Depending on the number of photos , and your bandwidth , it may take awhile .
Open the " Photos " view and press the Sharing button : You can then select one or more photos and delete them :
Yes - if you trust Apple to never lose the photos , you can delete all your local copies . Pay attention to which devices have full resolution images and which have " optimized " settings . Also , I 've been doing this for iTunes Match for some time . I have only lost a few dozen songs in two years of trusting the cloud . For that reason , I now set alarms every 6 months to download a local copy of all the songs from iCloud and back that up to an external HD . I 'll be doing the same with my iCloud photo library to be sure I never lose all the photos . I would add , that if the thought of losing a dozen photos or <URL> if your account should get messed up for engineering to work out the problem is n't your cup of tea , you might keep your originals on hard drives and in filesystems you know you have the tools to work with directly .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
<URL> CleanMyMac 2 has an <URL> . It will scan your library and give you the ability to delete photos that have been cropped , resized , rotated , or otherwise edited . By default , it will delete the photos that have been rotated and/or with fixed Red-Eye , however you can also choose to delete the originals of any photos that have been edited in any way . I have used this multiple times , and it 's worked great , although it 's worth noting that in the Rebuilding Library stage , it might appear that it 's crashed , but it 's still going - it does take a very long time !
The Trim Enabler patches the following Kext-File which checks if the ssd is a 3rd-party or Apple Branded SSD : you can also enable trim manually by looking for all ' Apple ' occurrences in the file and patching them in a hex-editor or via terminal :
No . iPhoto does not allow you to dictate the internal storage scheme . However , the export function does have an option to export the original file , so you can avoid the re sampling and/or format conversion if that is enough to stick with what you have . Additionally , Aperture and iPhoto can use the same storage , so you could get aperture and do the following ; convert the storage of any photos you want to folders and then save the library . continue to use iPhoto for convenient tasks and iPhoto will work with the aperture store locations . do all imports in aperture when you want the originals stored in specific folders . You can use Lightroom , PhotoMechanic or Aperture which all allow whatever folder based storage of photos you prefer .
Go to an Apple store ( or ask a friend with tech skills ) to remove the hard drive from the MacBook . Most likely the hard drive will be unharmed and putting it into an external USB case will let you access it ( not necesarily directly via the iPad but through some other way , e.g. iCloud or USB stick or something ) . Btw , quite likely the MacBook is not beyond repair also . Ask an Apple tech .
Unlike your iOS device ( s ) that have a smaller more finite amount of memory , your desktop/notebook systems are more than capable of storing the photos , as they 're found in your Photo Stream , they 're also automatically imported to your iPhoto Library ( <URL> ) : But since your Mac has more storage than your iOS device , it automatically imports every picture from your Photo Stream into your photo library so you can edit , delete , and share the ones you want . Take note , however , that there is a difference between your Photo Stream collection and your iPhoto Library . Attempting to interact with any photo being viewed while Photo Stream is selected will prompt you to view the copy in your Library .
I have n't tested it ( Match is not available for my country ) but from the <URL> it looks like you should be able to delete the songs locally and rely on the cloud storage to stream : Once your music is in iCloud , you can stream it to any of your devices . Just browse the complete list of all your music stored in the cloud . To listen to a song , tap the iCloud icon next to it and your song starts playing . You can store up to 25,000 songs in iCloud ( more if songs are purchased from the iTunes Store ) , but only what you want to play is stored on your device . So you have immediate access to a huge music library without taking up storage space . Have a look at this <URL> , it seems that after a song is matched and you try to delete it , a copy will be kept on the HDD in order to play it faster and not redownload it . Edit : I assume you 're aware of the perils of solely relying on cloud storage for your music library : it will only work while connected to the cloud , availability is subject to Apple 's benevolence ( with little warranty ) and terms of use might change anytime .
I have spent the better part of 6 hours researching this exact question , it appears that the answer is NO . I miss the mobileMe gallery more and more .
You might be interested in one of this choices : my favorite <URL> Features : Create an unlimited number of maps with unlimited landmarks Photos - Import photos from your Photo Album using their own locations . <URL> Then there is the iPhoto app for iPad :)
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
The Photos Timeline view is sorted by the date embedded in the photo , not by date added . All other views are also sorted by the date of the photo except the All Photos album , which is date added . You ca n't change the sort view of any of the application created albums . The last import view shows only the last import , and does not include photos from PhotoStream . Work around : you can create a smart album and it gives a variety of ways to sort the photos in the new smart album ( date range , title , keyword , etc )
This code will do it for you : Note that stripping the last three will get rid of the extension . If that is n't what you want to happen , let me know in a comment .
I solved this by creating a separate iPhoto Library and storing that Library within a password-protected encrypted sparse image . ( You create sparse images using Disk Utility . ) I 've appended a step-by-step tutorial to the end of this answer . I then created an alias to the private library and stored that alias in my Pictures folder alongside my regular libraries . To open the private Library , double click on the alias icon . You will be prompted for a password so that the encrypted image can mount on the desktop . When you 're done , be sure to " eject " the disk image . iPhoto defaults to opening the last Library opened so if you want the program to open the " regular " file next time , go ahead and open that Library . ( You can either double click it 's Library icon or open iPhoto while holding down the Option key . ) I 've just developed the habit of opening iPhoto using the appropriate Library icon from my Pictures folder . The disadvantage of this method is that you ca n't mix " private " images into your iPhone sync and it 's possible that leaving iPhoto with the wrong " default " library could interfere with an iOS sync . ( I use Aperture for my main photo collection/iOS sync anyway , so I have n't fully explored this . ) Creating an encrypted , Password-Protected iPhoto Library -- Step-by-Step The reality is that many of us have pictures we want to keep but do n't necessarily want to share with partners , children or grandparents . What happens at Burning Man stays at Burning Man . Right ? To keep those pictures from prying eyes -- and inadvertant display on your big screen TV via AppleTV -- I advocate using a separate iPhoto library for your private pictures and protecting that library by storing it inside an encyrpted container . I 'm keying this tutorial to Mac OS X 10.7 Lion and iPhoto '11 ( current at time of writing ) but this system will work for previous versions of the software . ( To a point -- the encrypted disk image was added to the OS in 10.3 . ) You can use this method to safeguard Aperture libraries as well . Open your existing iPhoto Library and select the images you want to put into the encrypted library . One way of doing this is to <URL> to those pictures . I used fmeo ( short for for my eyes only ) . Next <URL> that includes the images you tagged . Export or copy the tagged images into a folder on your desktop . Leave the images in your original iPhoto Library until you 're sure you 've sucessfully completed this entire process -- but do n't forget to go back and delete the images once you 're satisfied with the results . Next you need to <URL> for your private images . Quit iPhoto if it 's open . Open iPhoto while holding the Option key down . Create a new library from the dialog box displayed . I named mine FMEO . I strongly suggest you not give it a name like Pictures I Do n't Want My Spouse To See because the filename will be visible in the Finder if follow my complete plan . Import the images you want to protect into iPhoto ( making sure you 're using the FMEO library ) and organize them as you see fit . When you 're happy with the results , quit iPhoto . You can safely delete the Finder folder containing these images . Use <URL> if you 're concerned that someone will try to recover the deleted files . So far , all you 've done is created a separate library for your private photos . It is n't protected in any way . In fact , assuming the FMEO library was the last library used , iPhoto will display your private images the next time it 's opened . The secret to keeping those images from prying eyes is to store the library inside an encrypted container . Fortunately , Apple provides everything you need to create this container free of charge in OS X ( 10.3 + ) . Open Disk Utility . ( It 's in your Utilities folder . ) Create an <URL> : Choose New > Blank Disk Image from the menu Enter a name . Again , be discreet as this name will definitely be visible from the Finder . Choose a size for your container . It must be big enough to contain the current library and , assuming you want the ability to add images in the future , should allow ample room for future growth . You can afford to be a little generous with this because you 're going to use a <URL> image format , meaning the container will initially only take up as much disk space as its contents plus a little overhead and will grow ( but never shrink ) as necessary up to it 's maximum formatted size . Do n't worry too much about creating an image that you might outgrow someday as you can always create a new sparse image file and transfer the library into a bigger home if your library becomes too large . For Format Just use the default Mac OS X Extended ( Journaled ) unless you have a compelling reason not to . Same for Parition settings , just leave them be unless you know better . Encryption : I 'd suggest 128-bit ( more than adequate for most purposes ) but you 're free to use a higher level if you think it 's necessary . Click Create button . Enter a good password when prompted . Do not store the password in the keychain because that would
Here is a simple Applescript that uses the Image Events built into OS X. Add salt to taste . <URL> is also good for cheap and easy automation via Applescript that will offer more choices than what Image Events , but Image Events is free so there 's that
end question
start question
How to disable Self Control application ?
Have you tried opening Terminal ( Applications - > Utilities - > Terminal ) and using the commands : or As it is not working try the hosts file : And look for something like this delete the entire block and hit CTRL + O to save the file and CTRL + X to exit . Everything you put at hosts file like : Those addresses will be blocked , you will not be able to access them while they are inside the hosts file To stop and delete SelfControl running as a background process : To delete the firewall rules that have been introduced by SelfControl , read this blog article by Steve Lambert : <URL>
There is a convenient way of making your Mac speak any selected text . Open System Preferences . Select Speech . Select the Text to Speech tab if it is not already selected . Check the box for Speak selected text when the key is pressed and provide a key combination of your choice . You can now use the key combination to speak selected text system-wide .
You can use a service created by Automator to call your python script . Once your service is created , it will be available in the service submenu of your contextual menu .
You should probably use another app for screensharing and messaging . If you choose to do this , I reccomend <URL> for messaging and <URL> for screensharing . I searched the contents of the whole iChat application , and I could n't find anything , which leads me to believe that the pop up ( I 've had it too ) is not actually part of the iChat application , but used by iChat .
You can still compress a video and bypass Mail Drop when you compose a new email and manually attach the video ( by long clicking email body ) .
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
Control - is not a part of the set of <URL> . It is not directly representable as a keystroke in many terminal emulations . Such a keystroke is only properly detectable in certain platform-specific " scancode modes " or " GUI mode " ( where the API tells you exactly which keys and modifiers are being used ) . Your terminal emulator is beeping because it is effectively an invalid keystroke . The standard control codes only cover " Control " versions of -- ( ASCII 0 - 31 ) , and ( ASCII 127 ) In most terminal emulator programs running with most US key layouts you may need to press Shift to generate some of the " Control codes " : C - @ is ControlShift2 ( since is Shift2 ) C - ^ is ControlShift6 ( since is Shift6 ) C - _ is ControlShift - ( since is Shift - ) However , C - ? may not always be ControlShift / ( since is Shift / ) ; C - ? is usually generated by either Backspace ( on Apple keyboards , the key labeled just " delete " without the additional symbol ⌦ ) or Delete ( the one with ⌦ on Apple keyboards ) . In tty-based Emacs , you can usually use C - _ for instead of C - / .
You can disable voicemail button ( not remove it ) if you jailbreak and install " voicemailblock " from Cydia it will disable it . Works with SBSetting so you can enable and disable the button when you want .
Go to : System Preferences - > Mission Control and choose " - " in Mission Control shortcut
There is an app called Better Touch Tool . You can download it at their <URL> . First , you hide preview if there is any , and then select Trackpad on the top screen . Before you start adding gestures , make sure to allow it to control computer in System Preferences > Accessibility As you can see , I already set up the swipe up and down gestures . Below , you can select which gesture will it be ( in this case , 3 finger swipe up and down ) . And under Predefined Action , you can search Mission control .
If AutoFill is disabled , Safari wo n't ask to save passwords either .
I found this application that claims to do what you asked for . <URL>
Try hyperswitch ( <URL> ) - you can switch between windows only from current desktop .
If security is a major concern , I 'd assume that a software hack is not the solution . There still is a chance of malicious software importing code which re-enables the audio functionality . I read <URL> about disabling iSight on Macs where is was recommened to physically remove the webcam for absolute security . If you do not want to physically remove your iPhone 's microphone , I would try to distort the audio as good as possible - that would leave a spy with imprecise mumbling noises . The iPhone 4 can be muted quite effectively by just closing the hole at the bottom . There is a good chance that closing the hole of the microphone has the same effect . You could apply prestik or hot glue for example .
Unfortunately not ; Not without using another router with network Access Control Lists ( ACL ) . Airport 's Timed Access Control rejects all connection attempts to the access point from selected device based on it 's MAC address . It does n't give you any options for more granular Access Level Control in order to specify network resources the device will have access to ; as you have probably noticed by now , you only have control over scheduling . A solution to your issue would unfortunately involve buying another router that will allow for configuring ACL to the degree you need it to .
Generally , it does not affect , but there are some apps that do n't properly work when you do it . The only way to know is trying it . In the worst case , you can revert the changes without issues . About accessing keychain , same thing , usually you wo n't have problems . I have n't tested auto-update . I usually did it with old versions of apps , to have both old and new ones .
With the minimized application selected , start holding the ⌥ alt key before you release the ⌘ cmd key .
You can go to in the system preferences and select for your printer . In there , you should see an option for ( if your printer supports it ) . If that is checked , you can use the automatic double-side printing ( by checking the box next to ) . If not , or if that option is unavailable , you ca n't . In case you ca n't select that option , here 's how you can manually print double-sided pages . Manual double-side printing You can control manual double-side printing ( i.e. , you physically turn the sheets over ) using the setting in the print dialog . If you select , you 'll find a option that lets you print either only the odd pages or only the even pages ( default is both ) . To print double side manually , select first and when it finishes printing , flip the pages over and select Instead of flipping each page over to its blank side before printing the even pages , you have a more convenient option of flipping the entire block of pages , so that the last sheet is on top ( useful when you have a lot of pages to be printed ) . With this , you can then choose in to print the even numbered pages backwards . ( Note : be careful that if you have an odd-number of pages in total , you might have to leave the last one out before printing the even ones . )
You should take a look at <URL> . It can selectively toggle function keys between being regular function keys or the special hardware keys , including the media keys ( F7 , F8 , and F9 ) . Essentially , it does the same thing as " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " setting ( System Preferences > Keyboard ) , except only to individual function keys instead of all of them .
Turned out this was being caused by a faulty touch pad . Not an entirely uncommon problem apparently . Hope this helps someone .
end question
start question
how to enable continuous scrolling in iBooks 1.0 for OSX Mavericks ?
Continuous scrolling is available for iBooks on iOS but not the Mac . The Mac version of iBooks only allows pagination .
Go to configuration by type in address bar and press enter key then enter scroll in filter box , now you can change all scroll options .
Here is the contents of my / System/Library/LaunchDaemons / com.apple.mDNSResponder.plist from OS X 10.9.1 : It 'd probably be worth running a permissions repair after restoring the file .
You can only move spaces which are non-active . For example , lets say you have spaces 1 and 2 . If space 1 is active , you can not move it . You first have to select space 2 then you can move space 1 to a different monitor .
This was driving me crazy as well . Go to System Preferences - > Mission Control and make sure that ' Displays have separate Spaces ' is checked . You 'll have to log out and log back in for the change to take affect . That fixed it for me .
Sorry , Apple does n't allow people to change the mouse cursor anymore .
An open-source , cross-platform solution is <URL> I did n't try it , but it has a good amount of users on iusethis .
OS X Mavericks requires at least 8 GB of free space to install to . At least 15 % of free space is recommended for updates and other such things . Therefore , the minimum space for OS X is 9.2 GB , or to be safe , 10 GB . So yes , using Disk Utility to partition before you installed Boot Camp would have meant that you could have made the OS X partition smaller . You can repartition now with software such as <URL> , which specifically works with Boot Camp partitions .
Once you 've installed it ( I used Macports ) your file should look like this , at a minimum : The command opens the default GUI application for whatever it 's passed . In this case it 's passed a http : / / URL so it opens it in the default browser .
Bluetooth MIDI in Yosemite ( and up ) Only You can not use Bluetooth MIDI in OS X Mavericks as it is not supported . Bluetooth MIDI was implemented in Yosemite . For more info , see <URL> but I see nothing that actually states it can not function on Mavericks . It is very unlikely that you are going to see a statement from Apple stating that an OS three versions back specifically does n't support a feature that was introduced in an OS that one version back . Features that are listed are what 's supported , not listed as to what 's not .
<URL> appears to be related , it seems to be a permissions issue . I worked around this by creating a new folder at my destination and moving the folder contents into that new folder , instead of trying to directly move the folder itself . This invoked a proper Move operation without any special commands or key combos , and the files were moved instantaneously .
You can download the <URL> from <URL> page . It 's definitively not free of either license or copyright . The licensing terms stipulate only running it on Apple hardware and furthermore restricted on how to use it with virtual machines on top of Apple hardware . You need to also consider the <URL> if you download the free-of-cost Mavericks software from that store . Below is a relevant extract from the OS X Mavericks licence : 2 . Permitted License Uses and Restrictions . A. Preinstalled and Single-Copy Apple Software License . Subject to the terms and conditions of this License , unless you obtained the Apple Software from the Mac App Store or under a volume license , maintenance or other written agreement from Apple , you are granted a limited , non - exclusive license to install , use and run one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software on a single Apple - branded computer at any one time . For example , these single-copy license terms apply to you if you obtained the Apple Software preinstalled on Apple-branded hardware . B. Mac App Store License . If you obtained a license for the Apple Software from the Mac App Store , then subject to the terms and conditions of this License and as permitted by the Mac App Store Usage Rules set forth in the App Store Terms and Conditions ( <URL> ) ( " Usage Rules " ) , you are granted a limited , non-transferable , non-exclusive license : ( i ) to download , install , use and run for personal , non-commercial use , one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software directly on each Apple-branded computer running OS X Mountain Lion , OS X Lion or OS X Snow Leopard ( " Mac Computer " ) that you own or control ; ( ii ) If you are a commercial enterprise or educational institution , to download , install , use and run one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software for use either : ( a ) by a single individual on each of the Mac Computer ( s ) that you own or control , or ( b ) by multiple individuals on a single shared Mac Computer that you own or control . For example , a single employee may use the Apple Software on both the employee 's desktop Mac Computer and laptop Mac Computer , or multiple students may serially use the Apple Software on a single Mac Computer located at a resource center or library ; and ( iii ) to install , use and run up to two ( 2 ) additional copies or instances of the Apple Software within virtual operating system environments on each Mac Computer you own or control that is already running the Apple Software , for purposes of : ( a ) software development ; ( b ) testing during software development ; ( c ) using OS X Server ; or ( d ) personal , non-commercial use . The grant set forth in Section 2B ( iii ) above does not permit you to use the virtualized copies or instances of the Apple Software in connection with service bureau , time-sharing , terminal sharing or other similar types of services . Bold added for highlighting purposes ; the bolding is not present in the original licence .
How is the PDF compressed ? If it is black and white only , it may be using a compression method that leads to choppy behaviour . I was recently dealing with a product manual that was a black and white only scan . It was compressed using <URL> , and it stuttered enormously when scrolling , even on a top-of-the-line MacBook . I opened the document in Adobe Acrobat , and recompressed it using ZIP , and the scrolling problem went away entirely . If you have Acrobat Pro , the steps I took were : Open the file - > Save As - > " Optimised PDF " - > Change the " Monochrome Images " compression dropdown to " ZIP " - > Ok . It does increase the size of the file ( from 1.2 MB to 3 MB ) , but I can actually skim the document now . I think it mostly boils down to the fact that JBIG2 is compute-intensive , and Most PDF applications do n't render the document much ahead of the current page . If you do n't have Acrobat , and you can post the PDF , I can take a look at it for you .
<URL> is a good option as well . For marketing purposes : Features include automatic installation of packages and separately installed and isolated GHC . Installable from Homebrew with .
After some trial and error , I discovered a few ways to do this . The easiest solution requiring no Windows client and no external programs is option 1 . The absolute easiest method is option 2 , use µTorrent for Windows . Share between computers running µTorrent without a tracker This assumes that your µTorrent machines can open their own ports in your firewall using uPNP or NAT-PMP . While this may work with other torrent clients , I 've had the best luck when using µTorrent . Also , it seems to be one of the few that will allow us to manually add peers , the crucial step . For simplicity , we 'll call the machine with the file ( s ) to share , " server " , even though bittorrent has no concept of a server . On the server machine , select from the menu . Settings : Select the file or parent directory you want to share Make sure the tracker list is empty Select Select Now , and give your torrent file a name . At this point , you need to figure out your server 's internet IP address . If you do n't know how , try <URL> . With the IP in hand , you need to figure out what port µTorrent has opened in your firewall . You can find this in the preferences or by clicking on the right-most icon in the status bar at the bottom of the main µTorrent window . Send the torrent file along with the IP and Port ( e-mail , instant message , etc. ) to your colleague ( s ) . Each of them should open that torrent file with µTorrent , select the torrent in the list , and select the list . They may have to show the Details Pane from the View menu if not already visible . Right-click in the Peers list and choose . Enter the server 's IP and Port like this : IP : Port . The client should now connect to the server and start/resume the transfer . Note : If the server can not open a port in the firewall , you could add the client peers to the server 's peer list , too . Use a Windows machine with µTorrent as a tracker In the Preferences , under Advanced , set bt.enable _ tracker to true . Now , create a new torrent as described above , but put in the tracker list using the same IP and Port described above . Once this is done , your clients will not need the step . They can simply open the torrent file with µTorrent . Note : The Windows machine running the µTorrent tracker does n't have to be the server or the clients . If you have any Windows machine available , you could run µTorrent on it and have it serve as your tracker . ( I did n't actually test this , but in theory , it should work . ) Install a simple php web-server tracker If you already have access to a webserver , the easiest tracker I found to install is <URL> , a single-file php tracker . Simply place the php file on your server somewhere and then put in your tracker list when creating a new torrent . The clients should only need the torrent file . Note : If I were going to leave this running for the sharing of private files , I would put it on an HTTPS server with a username and password pair to protect it . Then change the tracker url to . Install an actual compiled tracker program I found several of these that will compile and run on OSX , but none of them seem to work properly in my testing . My tests may have been complicated by the fact that my tracker and clients all had the same IP address ( my external IP ) . Regardless , I do n't think this is the right solution because you should n't need to require developer tools to be installed . Warning : I tried using Vuze , an OSX torrent client with a built-in tracker , but I could n't get it to work . However , it seems that it installed several plugins into every single browser on my system and changed all of my default search engines . Be careful .
You can check it via Finder . Just select the Hard Drive and press . Or Click on the Apple icon on the menu bar Select , then click on . Select Storage
The tags name are in . You can read it with It will need some parsing to be a bit clearer : Other possibility is parsing the plist as xml . To do that you 'll need to first convert the plist from binary to xml using .
That should get you the current firmware version of your SSD . TPVABBF0 = has update TPSABBF0 = does not have update
You could convert them all to ePub using <URL> . Add the ePubs to iTunes and they should sync with iBooks . As not all PDFs are formatted the same , some will show the generic cover while some will show the first page when converted to ePub . You can change the cover art for each book individually in iTunes , by selecting the book > Right click > Get Info > Artwork .
Ok , I should have taken a look at SuperUser , <URL> a way to do what AllInOne says without fiddling with XML files ( and it 's faster ) . Simply create a new smart folder or hit cmd + F , choose " Raw Query " from the filters and type in the field .
end question
start question
Can apps access my camera without telling me ?
<URL> question over on StackExchange lead me to Apple 's <URL> , specifically , the background section . This lists the activities apps are aloud to run in the background , camera access is not one of them . This would also be a terrible condition for battery life and so it is not surprising that it is not supported . While this does n't guarantee that none of your apps will try to get access to your camera , you can rest assured that if anyone tried to , Apple would reject their app . This also ensures that there 's no API for background camera access , so unless someone has figured out a way to hack non-jail broken iOS at a very low level , we can all sleep safely with only the watchful eye of Siri upon us . Edit : Per my discussion with timothymh below , I realized you may have been asking about if you are still using a given app , having take a picture without switching to a new app . With more interesting reading from <URL> , we find that the camera API wo n't hand you data until a picture is taken or a video completed . Because the camera is n't handled by a daemon , it would be very difficult to be constantly polling the camera for input , even if you found a way past the API to get data without user input . Note I 'm not an Apple developer , but from an official standpoint , it appears what you 're talking about should n't be possible .
You can go to Settings > Notifications > Messages and change the Repeat Alert option to Never . This will stop it from bugging you twice !
Not easily and you may be running afoul of policy if you are circumventing the access policies of a computer to which you are not supposed to be modifying the security stance . If you were to run sshd in your user space , you will need to use a port higher than 1024 and also hope that the firewall and network will allow you to accept inbound traffic on the port you chose . Here is a <URL> on how you would do this with admin permissions . It 's not a perfect fit for Mac OS - but should give you a feel for what the issues are in your quest to set up sshd . <URL> .
No , not since 4.2 can you do this because the APN settings disappeared off the devices . Though , there are videos on youtube and tutorials in other places that can walk you through adding the features back on to your device . Whether or not they still work or will work for you depending on your current iOS version installed on iPad is a different story . A particular Video here : <URL> If you read the comments though , it does n't work for everyone , and some people it did work for had issues with their sim cards after about a week of use , with AT&amp;T disabling them . Other people on here might tell you to jailbreak your device and enable tethering but that is your choice . Jailbreaking is n't for everyone . A website here talks about making a wifi hotspot with your iPhone the legal or jailbroken way and talks about the pros and cons of each : <URL> I hope that this answer helps you out .
As I have access I 've made a screenshot for you . I do n't know why Apple hides this behind a login , but I do n't think it 's a secret .
In iTunes you can simply right click the app in question and choose Get Info . On the summary tab you can see the account used to purchase the app .
Rob , basically I do n't think your a ) and b ) answers are right . a ) . As far as my iTunes Pop-Up says ( it 's in German ) , my whole iPhone gets wiped and the stuff replaced . Replaced in this case seems not to be " add to " / " overwrite existing " . b ) . iTunes 10 helped me put this to the test . Actually it " previews " the whole process it seems , before I click " Apply " . Which I wo n't ( yet ) , as it obviously wipes my existing 33 folders and only leaves 10 folders ! I wonder why ? Screenshots : <URL> and <URL> . Now that does n't look like what we all want . I assume Apple just offers no way . I just wonder is there no way to backup the phone now and use this backup ? I frankly never occupied my mind with the backup files created . Sadly I just reinstalled Windows 7 a few weeks ago - and I frankly did n't backup those " backup " files ...
The remote wipe is part of Apple 's own code - so any program that wants access to that API has to work with Apple to ensure it follows Apple 's policies of not surprising end users . This feature is well documented in the enterprise documentation as well as part of MobileMe Find My iPhone terms of service . The things that currently will wipe an iOS4 device : ( the first two depend on physical posession of the device - the second two require some sort of data connection to the Apple ( or Exchange ) servers . Restore the device over USB ( in <URL> if a passcode prevents normal restore ) Turn on the failed passcode erase trigger and enter the code wrongly until the erase threshold is passed Turn on Find My Phone and activate an erase through another device using Apple 's push data servers . Turn on Exchange remote wipe and activate it through the Exchange server 's push data service . I do n't know of any apps that have hacked this interface . Ones in the App store would likely get caught before they shipped . Ones in cydia or jailbreak community might be more prevalent , but I 'm not familiar enough to say if there are any in the wild so I 'll leave that for someone else to answer here via an edit or in another answer .
I use Cloud Mate which shows all iCloud documents from all Apps ( including iOS ones ) . Only been using it for a couple of days , but it 's very simple and does exactly what it says it does : <URL>
Unfortunately you ca n't easily do Mac-to-Mac syncing of iTunes libraries in that manner . Your best options for networked iTunes access are : iTunes Library Sharing : put your library on the server , and you can get streaming access from your MBP . Downsides : no remote/offline access , you need to be on the same network as the server ; all media/playlist management has to be done on the server . iTunes Home Sharing : same streaming access as above , but you can also copy files from the server to your MBP . Downsides : it 's not syncing , you need to manually select and transfer the songs you want . Store iTunes Library on a Network Share : change the iTunes folder location ( Advanced section in the iTunes Preferences ) to a shared network drive on the server ( or any shared drive , does n't have to be a Mac ) . This gets you local control of the library , just like any standard functions . Downsides : have to be on the local network to get access . With this option you could make a second library ( option-click iTunes when you open it ) on the local drive with a smaller collection of songs you want for off-network access , but again , you do n't have any syncing abilities , you have to manually add what you want . I do n't know that much about iPhoto sharing , I think it 's more limited , but you can always put the iPhoto Library on a network share , as in the third option above , with the same limitations . There 's also iCloud 's Photo Stream , which is fairly limited , but may work if you just want to get recent photos from point A to B.
It 's quite easy to see indeed . If the two images match ( left ) , all photos were uploaded to the Photo Stream . If they do n't match ( right ) , some pictures have n't uploaded yet . NB : Photo Stream will only work over Wi-Fi , syncing only the latest 1,000 pictures taken in the last 30 days .
Unfortunately the solution is not a great one . I had a similar problem on my MacBook a while ago , and the problem is actually due to file fragmentation , however no defrag tool could actually solve the problem . There are various solutions on Google indicating that a defrag does work , but I had no success with any of them . The problem is related to how the files are spread on the drive , and BootCamp requires a continues 10GB or more of free space on the drive to be able to create the required partition . The only way I got around the problem eventually was to format and reinstall the drive . My honest advice is to look at using something like <URL> which is free , and create a virtual image for Windows . Depending on what you need to do , you can get away with a relatively small image . Windows 7 can run quite happily with only a 1GB of RAM if you do n't need Aero . You can also look at paid for options like <URL> or <URL> Alternatively , you could look at installing Windows on a secondary drive via USB . The speed wo n't be great , but if again , depending on what you need it for , it might be a sufficient solution .
Yes , the application is called " Photo Booth , " and lives , I 'm pretty sure , in / Applications/Photo Booth.app After you 've taken a photo , you can drag an image to the desktop or to a folder in the Finder to save as a jpg image .
It turns out the issue for me is that OSX has created 2 entries in the Calendar app for my Gmail account ( even though I only have the account entered once under the Internet Accounts system pref ) . The Calendar app wo n't let me delete the duplicate since it thinks the duplicate is managed under the Internet Accounts pref . Deleting and re-adding the gmail account in Internet Accounts did n't help either . After deleting the Internet Account , the duplicate still sticks around in the Calendar app is not deletable since the Calendar app ca n't delete it , and there is no corresponding Internet Account for that calendar . I got around the issue by un-checking the " Enable this account " checkbox for the duplicate in the Calendar app ( since it wo n't let me delete it ) . That at least makes it stop checking for calendar updates so I do n't get pestered for passwords .
No , Xcode 6 on the Mac App Store will replace the existing Xcode installation . Only the Xcode betas install separately ( by default ) and only downloading Xcode from developer.apple.com and doing the install manually ( by copying Xcode from the DMG to / Applications ) will prompt you to replace or keep both .
Part 1 - VNC This is pretty simple , you 'll need to go to System Preferences - > Screen Sharing and then click on Computer Settings . From there you can select VNC Viewers may control this screen with password and supply a password Part 2 - WiFi Wakeup Still in System Preferences go to Energy Saver . You can only do this with the Mac running on power ( if its a portable ) , but you should see an option to tick called Wake for Wi-Fi Network Access . 10.8.2 Problem - if you 're running the latest public release of Mountain Lion you may find this does n't work ( detailed here - > <URL> ) however if you have access to a developer account , 10.8.3 reports to fix this . I can confirm this works under 10.8.3 on a MBPr 2012 model .
In a sense the basis of your question is in error . While iMovie is saving videos to your camera roll , this is n't using any extra space on your iPhone . That 's why you get the error you 're getting after deleting the files - because that 's where iMovie is trying to access the video from . Basically , what happens is the video is saved to your camera roll , but project specific info is saved within iMovie . Once you have totally finished a project , you can export/share/save the final version and after that you can delete the video you took from your camera roll ( if you want ) . If you like , you can actually prove this to yourself by doing a simple test : Go to Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud usage In the Storage section , tap on Manage Storage Wait for the list of apps to appear ( this may take a while if you have lots of apps ) . Tap on iMovie ( likely to be in your top 10 ) Take a note of how much space is used up by Documents &amp; Data Now go to your actual iMovie app and take a 30s video Go to your Camera roll and try to email this video to yourself You should get a warning saying that this attachment may be too large to email . This message will give you the size of the video . Take a note of this . Cancel the attempt to email the video . Repeat the first 5 steps . You should note that while your iMovie Documents &amp; Data have grown a little , it will not have grown by anywhere near the size of the actual video itself . The reason this has grown is because it 's storing project info , not because it 's storing the video again . Hopefully this little test will put your mind at ease . Do n't forget to delete your test video .
You could certainly script this . There are many approaches that would work . It depends on how comfortable you are with the various tools , and if your Mac automatically logs into a user account . If your Mac automatically logs into your account on powering on , consider using Automator or AppleScript , and <URL> . Automator and Twitter Consider combining this <URL> . You could send a private tweet when your account is logged in . Save the workflow as an application and add it your account 's Login Items : System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups Alternative Approaches If your Mac does not automatically log into a user account , you will need to use a shell script approach . Automator and AppleScript both require an active user session . You could use AppleScript or shell script for sending a messages or e-mail . Add <URL> or a <URL> for scheduling the event on start-up or login . This can all be integrated into <URL> as a trigger .
One can do this . The following shows what I 've found ... Individual emails reside in a directory , typically something like the following : as " . emix " files readable by any text editor . " . emix " files have a sequential numbering by mails received by one 's itself rather than the particular mailbox , something like : The " . emix " files have clearly marked identifiers of their content . An abridged " . emix " file follows : : So , given all of this one needs to : Identify which email one wants to read ( I can use date and a specific email directory ) ; Import the text of the email into Mathematica ; Parse the required information using the appropriate identifiers in the " . emix " file . A little cumbersome , but workable .
This is currently not possible . Apple also <URL> , which means that there will probably not be any applications that do just that . There are , however , several other third party dictionaries which are quite good . A UIReferenceLibraryViewController object provides a dictionary service to look up the definition of a word or term from within an app . It should not be used to display wordlists , create a standalone dictionary app , or republish the content in any form . According to this answer <URL> you can download the application DictionaryPlusPlus , which does just that , here <URL> , it is open source and you will have to compile and sign it yourself .
end question
start question
As the Mac mini has no battery , would it fail or just suspend if the power is cut ?
As with any computer which does not have a battery you will lose everything not saved to disk if you unplug the computer from the power supply . If you use a Mini in an unstable environment , adding a UPS might reduce the risk of data loss .
Summary of solution " Create Network ... " on MacBook to create a " computer-to-computer " network ( via a right-click on the wifi icon in the main menu ) . Go to wifi settings on iPhone &amp; join network created . Either wait for IP address to show up on iPhone 's network details page or statically assign one in the range 169.254.x . y , as long as it 's not the same as the other computer 's IP address . Go to Finder ( or Path Finder ) , click Main Menu \ Go \ Connect to Server ... ( or just type ⌘ K ) to connect , then type vnc : / / 169.254.x . y , where x.y are the last two network octets you assigned statically to the iPhone or that the MacBook assigned to the iPhone . You should then be connected . Remember to be patient when connecting -- I experienced not exactly quick response times when connecting , and that was with no security ...
This <URL> says that the current Apple TV ( 2 ) has : Power : Built-in 6-watt universal power supply So yes , it looks like it will be fine in Europe .
You have to decide what you want in terms of storage , performance and OS since there is no option to have 2x1TB drives in the $ 799 model and there 's no option to have a 1TB Fusion Drive in the $ 999 model . Essentially , you 're paying $ 200 more to get OS X Server and for the ability to have a second hard drive ( doing it yourself is an option if you can follow guides on iFixit and have the tools and accessories required ) . Choose the $ 799 model with : A 1TB Fusion Drive - $ 250 OS X Server - $ 19.99 Total : $ 1068.99 ( but you 'll have a faster drive but half the storage space of the default $ 999 model ) . Choose the $ 799 model with the default 1TB drive : add another 1TB 2.5 " 5400 rpm drive - about $ 80 + ( approximate cost from newegg ) OS X Server - $ 19.99 The <URL> - $ 49.95 Total : $ 948.94 Hassle of doing it yourself : Priceless
Option + Wifi Menu Hold the <URL> down and select your WiFi icon in the menu bar ( & #x 2325 ; + ) . Additional information in the menu includes " Channel : " and ( 5 GHz ) or ( 2.4 GHz ) for the current radio settings . As seen in Yosemite : Wireless Diagnostics.app You can get even more information from System Information . But I usually open the <URL> ( in Applications > Utilities folder ) . Choose > to get more detailed WiFi networking or scan for better channels , check for interference , etc. .
MacBooks are designed for close and go operation and you 're not doing the system or hardware any harm by following the practice . That being said , there have been past issues with MacBooks not going to sleep properly when the lid is closed -- the indicator being that the Mac is hot to the touch and the battery level is lower than you would expect when you remove it from your bag . There are some reports of wake from sleep issues , generally caused by a " stuck " process . Assuming you have adequate RAM , the slowdown in your startup process is most likely caused by applications and processes being loaded at startup . The startup on my own MacBook Pro ( Mid 2007 model ) is measured in minutes as various mission critical utilities -- QuickSilver , TextExpander , Growl , etc. -- load and populate the menubar If you login to an alternate ( preferably clean , stock ) user account is the startup process faster ? To get a better idea about what you 're loading at startup , navigate to System Preferences and open the Users and Groups pane . ( Note : Users and Groups is titled Accounts on some systems . ) Select your user account from the panel on the left , then open the Login Items tab . This screen grab is from a MacBook Air that runs only a subset of the login items of my personal MacBook Pro . If Applications that you do n't need are running , you can remove them . Do this with caution , because sometimes there are login items necessary for other software to run as expected . Beyond that , you might want use <URL> to discover what 's running on your Mac . Run it right after a system startup . If you amend your question to include a <URL> of your login items and/or the running processes , we may be able to help you further .
Try the <URL> first . It will move everything you need from your old mac . ( OS 10.6.8 or later ) Many applications have data in the / Library/Application Support folder or the ~ / Library/Application Support folder as well as prefeferences and other scattered support files that would all need to be moved .
You 'll get the same warranty from an authorized Apple retailer as you would from Apple directly . I do n't know how prevalent it is today , but for a while you could buy refurbished Macs from non-authorized retailers and you ended up with little or no warranty . ( Note that Apple sometimes sells refurbished machines that do have full warranties ; the warranty 's existence is dependent upon the authorization status of the retailer . ) Apple provides a way to determine which retailers are authorized on the <URL> . Be sure to check that list before making a purchase .
Nope . They 're different sizes . Compare <URL> to their <URL> : 15 " : 13 " : Both batteries are roughly proportional to their cases , and the 15 " has a substantially bigger case than the 13 " . Additionally , they 're shaped differently - see the little notch in the top left of the 15 " battery , which is n't there on the 13 " battery . It physically wo n't fit .
I believe I am correct in saying ( without a Mini to cross check against ) that they both ( along with all the Mac lineup ) use the integrated Intel HD audio chip , and as such there should be no real difference between the 2 . I would say that you limiting factor would be that the Mini does not have an integrated microphone , whereas the Air does , so you will need to bring your own mic . Also , neither have separate mic input/audio output ports , and require you to use something like an iPhone headset ( modified 3.5 mm audio connector with both channels on the same connector ) , which may not provide the quality ( or comfort ) you need . So , on the Mini , you will need to buy a headset in order to get mic input , and if you already have one you may need to replace it with a USB one or iPhone one . On the Air you 're good to go unless you are already a regular headset user , in which case you may beed to replace if it uses 2 discrete connectors for headphone/mic .
Once you have downloaded it from the App Store , but before you run it , you can copy the Install Mountain Lion app into the Applications folder of any Mac you have an Admin account on ( and have signed into the App store as you obviously ) and run it from there . If the Mac is not recent enough to install Mountain Lion the installer will tell you , otherwise it will happily install Mountain Lion for you . That 's how I updated all the Macs at my place . Note that once run the installer will delete itself from the Applications folder .
You get two distinct , functioning displays unless you choose to mirror . Same with AirPlay . From <URL> : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution [ 2304 by 1440 ] on the built-in display and up to 3840 by 2160 pixels on an external display , both at millions of colors
/ usr/64 never existed in OS X , go ahead and remove it . There was , however , a directory called " lib64 " ( or / usr/local/lib64 ) , which offset / usr/lib . This was found on some Linux operating systems back some years ago , when the transition from 32bit to 64bit was still in its infancy . It may still be used today as a remnant of that era . Microsoft Windows also had a similar structure , separating 32bit from 64bit . OS X has never used such a separation of libraries or even executables .
There are no build-in power modes in Mac OS X. Still , the standard configuration in Mac OS X in combination with the high capacity batteries used in the MacBooks offers quite good battery life . If you want to optimize your energy usage , you need to manually tweak settings . Here 's , what OS X offers to save power : System Settings - > Energy Saver dim display when using battery display/computer sleep System Settings - > Display Automatically adjust brightness System Settings - > Security &amp; Privacy disable remote control infrared receiver Menubar Wifi Icon - > disable Wifi Bluetooth icon - > disable Bluetooth
OS updates will now happen over the air . The only reasons would be to sync a new iPhoto event/album or to sync content that you added manually ( ripped CD ) . But outside of that , iOS does n't require syncing .
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
There are two types of Lion licenses . licenses tied to one mac ( hardware linked license ) licenses tied to one Apple ID ( person linked license ) The former transfers , the latter does not . You can of course hold option when clicking Purchased in the App Store to download another copy of your Lion installer ( or download Lion again onto your mac using recovery ) . The installer would not have asked for your Apple ID if it determined that mac deserved lion due to a hardware linked lion . You could of course install lion the first time on your soon to be sold mac , but the person buying the mac would be " without a paddle " if you had n't prepared them that they might need to pay to reinstall their OS if their mac ever crashes or gets a new hard drive .
If it 's Safari 5.1 you 're in the same boat as a lot of people . The recommended suggestion is bail out and go to Chrome , but I like Safari so I 've stuck with it . I 've completely removed Flash from my system ( I sandbox it in Chrome ) , I trash Safari 's cache once a week , I completely shut Safari once every 4 hours , and I never have more than 10 tabs open at once . That keeps it relatively stable , but I 'm probably going to move to Chrome as it 's a bit much for one app .
The app wo n't get rejected . Apple do n't browse the source of your app -- they 're testing the functionality from a user 's point of view . Private API detection is left to iTunes Connect . You should still try to remove unused code from your app to make the app as small as possible for users .
You do not need to disconnect your MacBook Pro 's battery . Your battery will stop charging once it is full . Apple 's modern batteries are much smarter than previous designs . To get the most out of your MacBook Pro 's battery , follow the <URL> : unplug and use your battery until empty about once a month , then charge back up to full . At the time of answering , Apple 's advice read : For proper maintenance of a lithium-based battery , it 's important to keep the electrons in it moving occasionally . Apple does not recommend leaving your portable plugged in all the time . An ideal use would be a commuter who uses her notebook on the train , then plugs it in at the office to charge . This keeps the battery juices flowing . If you need help following Apple 's advice , use <URL> ; it is free and will remind you when to deplete your battery .
end question
start question
How to keep a VPN connection alive on an iPhone ?
According to this <URL> this is standard for most users . But there is Jailbreak solution with external app called Insomnia <URL> is an iPhone native application that , when enabled , will prevent the iPhone from sleeping , thus overriding its default behavior . This allows background applications to continue to run and WiFi to work long after the screen has been switched off . ( The iPhone 's default behavior is to sleep 30 seconds after the screen has gone off , when not docked and charging that is ) . Downside of this is your cpu etc is still running so battery will go down quickly . There is also a <URL> for Cisco VPN with SBSetting with Jailbreak that might work for non-Cisco software ( as in the built-in VPN ) but as I have n't tested it it 's hard to say :-) It may be that the blog mentions the built-in VPN but I ca n't verify it myself . It 's not clear whether it mentions Cisco app or the built-in VPN ( and just names it Cisco VPN ) .
No . All of the information has been downloaded therefore it does not need an Internet connection to install . Just make sure you start the install while on wifi because the installer asks a few questions and it may need wifi to process it . Once answering the questions and it starts the actual install you may take the computer away from wifi
There is no way to do it through the VPN connector . This setting is determined by the administrator of Cisco/IPSEC VPN endpoint . This not to say that you could not write a script that monitors network traffic and disconnects the client after a prescribed idle time - just that it is not available as a setting or attribute of the VPN connection on the client side .
Whether your internet connection is slow may have several reasons : poor , instable connection geographic location total traffic on the network you 've reached your cap ( see contract ) For the normal users it 's difficult to determine what the exact reason is . Especially in dense areas , the promised speed is not reached sometimes because the total traffic of all users is very high . Where I live , the same network is used by different providers , adding additional complications . In order to judge if your network connection slower than usual , you should test and record your network speed for several times throughout a month . You can use <URL> to get stats about Download , Upload and Ping . You can use this data to check the speed you 've been promised by your provider . Check your contract to see what speed you have been promised . Most contracts throttle the speed after you have reached a cap .
By now it is possible to down-grade your baseband - at least for the iPhone 3G and 3GS ( unfortunately not 4/S ) - from the iPad 's 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( un-lockable ) thanks to the great work of the iPhone Dev Team : The iPhone Dev Team is happy to announce a baseband downgrade option in redsn0w for those who are using the iPad 's 06.15 baseband on the iPhone3G or iPhone3GS . Typically you 'd have the 06.15 baseband if you unlock with ultrasn0w but updated your iPhone baseband past 05.13.04 . With this new capability , you can now downgrade specifically from 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( even if you never had 05.13.04 on that device before ) . This gives you the best of both worlds : ultrasn0w compatibility and a normal iPhone baseband with full GPS and the ability to use stock IPSWs again . See <URL> on their blog .
You should explicitly deauthorize it . The standard way is to use iTunes . But if you do not want to install or use iTunes , you can get Apple Support to help you : Go to the <URL> page Click on the Contact iTunes Store support link ( click OK when it prompts you about redirecting you to another page ) This currently takes you to the What 's happening with iTunes ? page Click the Account Management box to open up further options Click the iTunes authorization or de-authorization link Choose how you would like help - the current options are for Apple to call you or to schedule a call back from Apple or email Apple Support Provide the details of the Apple ID and the device in the request for deauthorization
You wo n't need to use OpenSSH at all whatsoever . The VPN settings are saved in / var/preferneces/com . apple.networkextension.plist file . Open it with a text editor . It 's not encrypted . The passwords are saved in the keychain instead of inside this file . You can not access the keychain on an iOS device and decrypt it easily but you can do it over a macbook that shares the keychain with your iOS device ( if you enabled it ) . Type in your master password to view the saved passwords .
iCloud backups are incremental . You 'll continue to complete backups when connectivity is restored .
I just figured out one way to do this : Pause the download on the iPhone by tapping the icon . Connect the iPhone to iTunes . This will cause iTunes to start downloading the app . Go to the Downloads tab in iTunes and delete the download .
I know of no other solution to sync the handheld device . If you want to get files on and off the device , you may be able to find tools/apps to help you . I 've had to resort to a tool to get some audio and video content off of an iPod once that was loaded on someone else 's machine ; when you associate an iPod with a new machine , iTunes really wants to zap the contents , and I assume that may also be true with iPhone . Also , the way some of that content is stored on the device may not be what you 'd expect ( files in a file system ) , it 's more like cryptically named blocks of data in a database . But there are tools that can help you deal with the problem .
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
It is a bit hidden , but it is possible : Open System Preferences Click on Accessibility Scroll down a bit and click on Mouse &amp; Trackpad Click on Trackpad Options ... Enable dragging Select " three finger drag " <URL>
You may not have noticed it , but Oracle Java 7 installs a new item in System Preferences with a feature that automatically checks for updates by default , and prompts you to install them . Thus , this is taken care of .
Yesterday I was using mine in a meeting , and a guy next to me said , " What do you use to wipe the screen down ? " I said , " My shirt . " And I demonstrated my super-fancy wipe-the-screen-on-my-shirt maneuver I 've worked out . It 's cheap , and it works . It 's not exactly high class , but whatever .
Now OS X ( Mavericks ) supports Thunderbolt networking just like any other networking interfaces . Then , you can share internet just like any other interfaces . Anyway Thunderbolt interface is pretty picky , then sometimes you will not able to make connection . I do n't know why , but if established , it provides at least 100MiB/s bandwidth ! I expect this is limited by HDD in my iMac , and if I have both SSD , it will be even more faster .
Here 's how I understand it . Mobile apps that run on iOS 7 can indeed be set up to ( either manually or automatically ) connect via VPN , but the devices have to be managed with OS X 10.9 as the backend VPN server and MDM . This is intended to separate the corporate connection ( which may be carrying sensitive data ) from the personal one . Functionally , a payload ( XML file ) will be pushed to the iOS device . The VPN payload is designated by specifying as the value . The VPN payload contains VPN connection information , but relevant to VPN-By-App , the key is enabled : If true , the Per-App VPN connection starts automatically when apps linked to this Per-App VPN service initiate network communication . Additionally , there is a VPNUUID key : A globally-unique identifier for this VPN configuration . This identifier is used to configure apps so that they use the Per-App VPN service for all of their network communication . And a SafariDomains key : This array contains strings , each of which is a domain that should trigger this VPN connection in Safari . So , the short answer to your question is Yes .
fingaz 's answer is not quite correct -- they are talking about when you uncheck the " compilation " box in the Get Info window in iTunes , not turning off " Group Compilations " . The short answer is no , at least not at this time . If you want them to not be grouped as a separate " artist " , you would need to alter the metadata in iTunes such that they are n't compilations any more . If this is a feature you would like to see in the Music app , you can tell Apple yourself on <URL> .
I 've looked around for this several times but today I just found its hiding spot -- the 0 key ! Just hold 0 until the alternate characters are shown . In the case of 0 , the only alternate character is ' ° ' .
On your iPad , go to Settings → General → Storage &amp; iCloud Usage → Manage Storage → Music . <URL> From there , you can either Edit or directly swipe left on any artist to delete all their songs . If you just want to delete individual albums or songs , you can drill down by tapping an artist or album , respectively , then swipe left to delete each item one by one . If you want to go thermonuclear , you can simply swipe left on All Songs . Do note that this operation takes some time to complete , up to several minutes . So just let iOS do its work , and soon enough you should have your storage back . Once you 're done , in order to keep songs from being downloaded in the future , go back to Settings → iTunes &amp; App Store , then toggle Music Off under AUTOMATIC DOWNLOADS . <URL>
I had something similar happen to me once . What I did was to go into the Preferences for RDC , and in the tab , remove the value for the parameter . That did the trick for me .
end question
start question
Does iOS 9 update require iOS 8.4.1 to be installed first ?
this problem occurs when you already have a downloaded update ( for example , you have downloaded 8.4.1 but not installed it yet ) . Easiest way to correct is to delete the update ( Settings-General-Usage-Manage Storage - look for iOS8 .4.1 ( or whatever version has been downloaded ) . After deleting the old update , a check for software update will show iOS9
The <URL> article pegs it at 600MB difference on the iPhone 5 . DEVICE SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 7.1.2 ) SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 8.0 GM ) 32GB iPhone 4S ( AT&T ) 27.4 GB 26.6 GB 32GB iPhone 5 ( VZW ) 27.3 GB 26.7 GB 32GB iPhone 5C ( AT&T ) 27.2 GB 26.5 GB 64GB iPhone 5S ( AT&T ) 56.0 GB 55.1 GB
No - you do n't need to get a new drive , but it 's always nice to consider getting a new drive for reliability reasons . At some point , retire the old drive to the shelf or delete it and repurpose it . The backup should ideally be more reliable than the source in terms of longevity . Even an unreliable drive can be useful though since it will protect you from user errors and is unlikely to fail at the same time as the primary source if you are primarily concerned about having two copies of the current data . One Time Machine drive can serve to hold files from many computers . Similarly , one computer can back up to multiple Time Machine drives . In the case where you migrate data from one Mac to another , the system will usually detect this and offer to " migrate " the one time series of backups so that you get two benefits : You do n't lose the space savings where each file is only saved when it changes - saving space when a dozen backup intervals contain the same file version . You do n't lose history and have to wait for all the files to back up .
I 've heard it was used because that was the approximate time at which the iPad was revealed originally , and given the Apple attention to detail , the clock had to match up . It was used in everything else because a lot of the same materials were used in the presentations as in the ads .
Yes it does , but the review times are much faster . I just submitted an update and it was reviewed and live within 5 days ( counting the weekend ) .
As you can find <URL> , in the Apple Developers webpage : Xcode 7 requires a Mac running OS X version 10.10.4 or later . It includes SDKs for watchOS 2.0 , iOS 9 , and OS X version 10.11 . As you see in the attached pic , Yosemite can still be valid to run XCode7 , if it is updated to the 10.10.4 + version required . <URL>
I just did a quick check on my iPod4 ,1 running iOS 5.0.1 . Those two binaries are not present in that folder . However , I have seen mentions of IQ in other parts of the system such as var/wireless/Library / Logs/awd ( empty ) and var/root/Library / Logs/awd ( empty ) and com.apple.iqagent.plist in var/mobile/Library / Preferences . The only value in that plist is DiagnosticsAllowed = false . I would conclude that Carrier IQ is not present on 4th Generation iPod Touches running iOS 5.0.1 .
Whenever we install newer version of xcode , it ask " Do you want to replace the last version or to keep both " , than we need to choose the Both Version option . It will keep both .
It 's a Treasure Hunt ! On the iPad : Click the wrench icon to open the Settings dialog . One of the settings is AirPlay - Bluetooth . Set that to On , and the usual audio output selector will appear in the toolbar . On the iPhone : Click the gear icon to open an untitled two-sheet settings dialog . Select the Song sheet . The AirPlay - Bluetooth selector is there .
Yes it does . It has to verify the firmware with Apple 's servers ( gs.apple.com ) . If it can not , it will error out ( usually presenting a 3XXX error , which is quite often 3004 ) and fail to update .
I just tested this using Apple 's built-in " Music " app on an iPhone 4 running iOS 5.1 , using and to monitor network activity . No connections to Apple servers are being made when opening an app on any iOS device . As you mentioned , individual apps ( e.g. Facebook ) may keep track of data like this by pinging a server every time you open their app -- but Apple does not do anything like this globally .
No , you ca n't do that . Apple only allows users to update to the latest software , as it fights version fragmentation . I recommend just updating to iOS 8.4.1 . For the most part , whatever bugs existed in iOS 8 are fixed by now . You could also just wait until iOS 9 comes out in a couple of weeks , bug fixes and performance enhancements will be a major part of iOS 9 . This all is an effect of " code signing " where you need Apple to sign the version of code at the moment it gets installed . Since <URL> , you would need to jailbreak or bypass that entire process . Unless you 're into the details of Jailbreaking you can stay at iOS 6 or upgrade to the versions Apple supports/signs . I strongly recommend against jailbreaking , though .
Nope . It 's not possible on any iPad or iPhone because Apple stops signing the older iOS versions after newer ones are released . It 's impossible to upgrade to iOS 7.1.2 Three options you have right now Upgrade to iOS 8.1 [ download the firmware separately and update before Apple stops signing ] Upgrade to iOS 8.1.1 from iTunes Stay on iOS 7.0.4 iOS 8.1 has jailbreak , so this could be your chance to upgrade before the window closes .
You 're right Christian , I did n't even notice it but the gamecenter app has been removed . It is stated under gamekit in the IOS 10.0 <URL> Apparently it wo n't be missed by many :)
Apple implements tethering , so if your app proxies TCP/IP traffic directly , you will probably run afoul of several aspects of the review process . Clearly , if your app is doing things to add value to the network you 'll likely have more legs to stand on that your app is n't just the same implementation as carrier tethering : linking IOT type devices speak protocols other than just TCP/IP allow filtering , reporting , proxy , QOS controls Like all app submissions , your milage may vary . You can do the work and take your chances or you can line up a big customer and sell the app B2B style if you are worried about Apple deciding to pass on your app .
Sort of ... you can go into Safari , choose a website , then click the bookmark icon , select the @ tab , click Subscriptions and then click Add Current Site . Otherwise Reeder for IOS is a great RSS reader . <URL>
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
You can still download the IPSW files that contain iOS from Apple - <URL> . Just find the correct 5.1.1 file for your model . The problem is installing that IPSW . The trick to make iTunes use a specific IPSW instead of downloading the latest from Apple is to hold option ( shift on Windows ) while clicking the Update or Restore buttons . There is a limit to how long Apple will allow installations of old versions ( without using jailbreak-related hacks ) , so you 'll want to try this ASAP .
Your probably best of if you crop the photos yourself . Here are the pixel counts that work best for each screen size : iOS devices : display sizes 320 × 480 pixels : iPhone ( 1st generation ) , iPhone 3G , iPhone 3GS , iPod touch ( 1st -- 3rd generation ) 640 × 960 pixels : iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod touch ( 4th generation ) 640 × 1136 pixels : iPhone 5/5s/5c , iPod touch ( 5th generation ) Retina display 1024 × 768 pixels : iPad , iPad 2 , iPad mini ( non-retina ) 2048 × 1536 pixels : iPad Air , retina iPad mini and iPad ( 3rd -- 4th generation ) , all of which have Retina display Automate resizing using Automator Automator let 's you easily crop images . See my screenshot below for explanation and just click the actions together . You can automate resizing the photos with Automator , if you do n't demand to choose an extract of your photo . <URL> Rember to use " crop images " with " scale before crop : Scale to Short Side " : After finishing your workflow you could add a thousands images and let your Mac do the work . You will be prompted to select your images ( see first action ) . Just adapt the sizes for your corresponding device . You could also merge this into one workflow . Just duplicate the last three steps and change the suffix ( ) in action " Add text " . Here is an example image * went through my Automator workflow . Original : <URL> Result : <URL> Resizing using an application You could use the free app <URL> from the Mac App Store . This let 's you choose an image extract . The maker of another app ( <URL> ) documents the sub-pixel shifts that parallax changes can have at <URL> I hope my answer helps you with your problem concerning your image size and how to resize them . Unfortunately , I do not see an option to set a background image in Apple Configurator ( Version 3.5 ( 289 ) ) . * image by interfacelift.com
It has moved to a little different location . To access the same screen , go to : Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud Usage > Manage Storage Moreover , iOS9 now has a search function inside " Settings " . A user can search for a term , such as " Usage " in the search bar to access the corresponding settings .
end question
start question
How to capture screen on iOS 10 by using AssistiveTouch ?
In the assistive touch menu you 've to select : device - > more - > screenshot .
You can set the default boot disk in System Preferences > Startup Disk .
I <URL> and got an answer which appears to have fixed my issues . Hardware acceleration ( paradoxically ) is what was slowing down my VS. HTH somebody .
At the moment there is no such option in rEFIt . It has been requested , but there has been no acknowledgement of implementing it . You could always participate in developing the application and thus getting the feature implemented :)
The serial number will allow you to view the <URL> of the phone . Using this information , you can 1 ) find the original iOS the phone ran , and 2 ) find out the iOS ( s ) with which the device is <URL> However , you ca n't remotely find the current iOS version or specific update to that version based on the serial number alone .
Found the answer ! This feature is invisible and you have to know it 's there . To shuffle songs within a genre in your library , do the following : Tap the " My Music " tab . Tap the selection in the divider at the top between " Recently Added " and the music list . A drop down will appear where you can select a means to sort . Select " Genre " . You can use this same method to shuffle within other sorting schemes ( artists , albums , etc. ) Scroll to your desired Genre . Tap the IMAGE ( or gray square ) to the left of the Genre name , not the name itself . A song within that genre should start to play . When you tap the currently playing song name at the bottom , the currently playing song will expand up . Make sure the Shuffle icon is lit at the bottom . THAT 'S IT ! Enjoy ! If you have the " repeat " icon de-selected , playback will stop once all the songs in the selected genre have been played . Source ( apple forum ) : <URL>
You can only change what a right swipe does in iOS . You can change what the middle option on a left swipe is , but a full left swipe will still be delete/archive . Check out settings - > mail , contacts and calendar - > swipe options .
I think your conclusion is correct . This information is not included in the MDM Protocol Reference and therefore is n't available through MDM . The only way I can think of would be to side-load ( using an Enterprise Distribution certificate/profile ) an app that uses private APIs to monitor such activity and report back . Not recommended and against the Developer Program T&amp;C s I believe ...
The old ( pre-Lightling ) connection " unofficially " supported a USB keyboard by plugging it into the <URL> USB port . I not sure if this is still possible with the new Lightning port , although , some companies do make a <URL> . Connecting the Keyboard this way lets you use it in any app that supports Bluetooth keyboards ( which I think is pretty much any writing app ) . It does , however , show you a warning on screen when you connect the keyboard , but you can just dismiss it . If you 'd like to read more about what you could do with the Camera Connetion Kit USB port , check out the Using the CCK for more than just photography section of <URL> . On a side note , you can also use you keyboard to fully control your iOS device by turning on some accessibility settings . I do n't remember exactly what I used when I tried this , but it was either : or : So in short , yes , you will be able to use you computer to control an app through the thunder connection , but depending on what you 'd like to do , you may need to be a little clever about exactly how you implement this so you take advantage of some unofficial iOS features . And , if this does n't work for what you want , I know a lot of apps ( <URL> ) connect to the PC via WiFi . These apps send commands to the PC , but I 'm fairly sure you can make the connection go both ways as long as you do n't need to control anything outside your own app . Hope this helps !
Tap and hold the language key ( the one that looks like a globe or possibly an Emoji smile face ) and set the toggle for " Predictive " to off .
Instead of selecting the artist to display the albums and songs of the artist , tap the image of the artist and the artists songs will play shuffled .
The fullscreen YouTube uses of its website , is not a " real fullscreen " feature . It just maximize the size of the video to the size of the webcontent . So unlike Vimeo ( for example ) you wo n't get a real fullscreen without YouTube updating it 's webplayer ( or you using the YouTube app ) .
Back up your iPad to your computer or iCloud , and pull a factory reset on the sucker . I know that some people have been having issues with iOS 5.0.1 , and that a complete wipe/reset is necessary to fix some issues . I hope this helps , and good luck !
No ports are open by default on iOS 6 . This should n't be confused with the also true statement that iOS 6 will open network connections to several Apple servers so that APNS and iCloud push email and software updates work . You will have to configure things like WiFi sync or run file sharing software or a web server to get the device listening on IPv4 ports . I use an app called <URL> from the iTunes Store to inspect all network connections . That should help you determine which setting or app has opened port 1027 on your device . On all my iOS 5 and iOS 6 devices , the only default open port ( LISTENING ) is on localhost/loopback .
So , the answer should be the Glims . Either uninstall the Glims , or config the GLims not to organize the downloading into dated folder .
There really does n't seem to be a way to view this info at all on iOS 5 iPads , in Apple 's " Music " app . Further iPad iOS 5 podcast annoyances : If the main " Music " you listen to is podcasts , it 's really annoying that you can no longer promote the " Podcasts " button from " More " to the main view : so you always have to go to " More " to see your podcasts . If you have a mixture of video and audio podcasts , you have to switch between the " Videos " and " Music " apps to see them . For all these reasons , I gave up on the built-in iOS 5 podcast tools , and switched to <URL> . It costs a small amount of money , but has so many convenience features built in that it 's well worth it . ( It 's actually iPhone only - but works fine on iPad , at 2x size , even for showing videos ) I particularly like : It downloads the latest episode of shows you subscribe to , but seamlessly shows you earlier ones too , so you can easily stream them Automatic downloading via WiFi - so no more need to connect my device to a PC to update lots of podcasts Back and forward buttons to go move 30 seconds back or forwards - or you can change the settings , and make these buttons go back/forward 10 , then 20 then 30 seconds if clicked in quick succession . Small icon at top-right of screen shows/hide details of podcasts . Sleep facility ( 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , 90 minutes ) ( I 'd like to include a link to the original question here where I saw Podcaster first mentioned , but there are so many answers singing its praises , I really do n't remember which one I saw . ) Edit And to answer your question about Tiesto 's Club Life Podcast , yes , Podcaster displays that well . It shows the images as you listen , and at bottom-right of the screen there 's a little chapters icon that shows name of each chapter , and its position ( in minutes and seconds ) Furthermore , you can swipe upwards on the screen , when playing , to show the chapters .
Found out the issue was indeed the RADIUS certificate , as Apple deprecated the SSLv3 cryptographic protocol and the RC4 symmetric cipher suite in iOS 10 and macOS Sierra . <URL>
Without jailbreaking your iPhone there Is no option to change that .
I have n't got my iPod Touch with me but this works on the iPhone if you go to Settings - > General - > Auto-Lock and set it to Never . That should work . Let me know if iPod Touch has removed this . Do n't know why they would have !
You 're right Christian , I did n't even notice it but the gamecenter app has been removed . It is stated under gamekit in the IOS 10.0 <URL> Apparently it wo n't be missed by many :)
end question
start question
Can you use Catleap display with MacBook Pro ?
Ok , days of reading later ; the answer is ' Yes ' with following requirements Need to output a native dual link DVI signal at 2560x1440 Need a mini Display port to Dual Link DVI ( Apple or Monoprice )
The best guide to reference here is : <URL> To use your Apple Thunderbolt Display with your MacBook Pro lid closed : Connect an external USB keyboard and mouse to a USB port on your display , or use the Bluetooth ® Setup Assistant to set up a wireless keyboard and mouse . Make sure your MacBook Pro is turned on . Close the lid on your MacBook Pro to put it to sleep . Wait a few seconds , and then press any key on your external keyboard or click the mouse to wake up your MacBook Pro
I am happy to tell you that keeping it charging will not damage your MacBook in any way ! There is also a way to do your requested way of streaming data to the monitor . You can use the amazing Apple TV . This is not only for TV 's because you can stream to monitors , and your own TV ! ( which personally is amazing if you have a large flatscreen ! ) However I am not 100 % sure this is compatible with all types of monitors or TV 's so i would recommend just keeping it plugged in because like I said earlier that will not damage your computer . I hope this helped ! The reason your having this problem is because monitors are n't computers . They do n't have wifi , you ca n't connect them to anything wirelessly . Monitors do n't have any form of computational power except for converting computer code to images which still requires being connected to a computer to work .
False , Dual DVI means that it has more bandwidth , not that you can attach two monitors . Quote from <URL> article : To support display devices requiring higher video bandwidth , there is provision for a dual DVI link . A dual link doubles the number of TMDS pairs , effectively doubling video bandwidth at a given pixel clock frequency . Dual link should not be confused with dual display ( also called dual head ) , which describes those situations where a computer is hooked up to two monitors at once . Neither , either , or both of the dual displays could be dual link . Depending on the video card ( s ) , the displays could be both analog ( VGA ) , an analog and a digital , or both digital . In order to attach two monitors , you could use a third party device like - you can connect two or three monitors from your Display Port , however , there are some limitations ( like the OS does not know natively that there are two or three monitors connected and treats it like one ) . The price is about $ 350 for the Tripplehead and around $ 220 for the Dualhead one . Here is the <URL> .
Yes . The Thunderbolt Display USB ports work well to connect a hub for more downstream devices . There is also enough power for unpowered hubs to connect low power devices like mice and USB flash storage . You will want a powered hub if you have multiple spinning hard drives or devices that you wish to charge from the hub itself .
I think you are going about this the wrong way . You are looking defensively when you should be on offense . Consider getting something like a privacy shield to place around the urinator : Another alternative might be to simply bring physical pain into the mix . Wounding the urinator that sprays wildly towards you and the Macbook might make the urinator realize that control is important . Again , think offense ... not defense .
Your best bet is Apple 's <URL> . There are also assorted USB ethernet adapters available from various sources ( including <URL> ) , including a few <URL> , but the Thunderbolt one will likely have the best performance , so unless you 're using both Thunderbolt ports already , that 's the better choice .
Only if it does n't have a built in optical drive . I think the limitation is built into the drive not the OS and as far as my searches have discovered can only be subverted by hardware hacks of the drive . It 's a bummer as it is is a neat little drive and Apple built-in slot loading drives are not that reliable ( 4 out of 5 of mine have failed over nearly a decade . ) On the other hand there are a lot of cheap and ugly 3rd party alternatives which work fine .
Yeah , on a 2010 MacBook pro , there is no way to separate the keyboard from the top case without disassembling the entire machine . The best way to clean out those keys is to get some compressed air and go to town on it .
Yes . It usually " just works , " but if you 're having trouble , Apple has detailed instructions : <URL>
Yes , as @Buscar 웃SD said , you can use an external Bluetooth adapter . On my Macbook Pro 13 " I had to use Apple 's Bluetooth Explorer to set my USB adapter as the active controller . <URL> describes how to download and use Bluetooth Explorer .
If it 's an iMac 21 " / 27 " , yes you can use it as a display with the so called <URL> . You can enable it using the Cmd + F2 keyboard shortcut !
Yes , however there are two versions of the MacBook battery , the Energy Star and the non-Energy Star that are incompatible with each other . So as long the pins look the same in his laptop you should be fine Check out this post on super user for more details on the different pins of the Energy Star and non-Enery Star connections for the battery . <URL>
You can use either thumb to hold down a ⌘ key and then use another finger to access the other key . You just have to get used to sliding either thumb a little to the left or to the right of the space bar . Yes , this is just a result of years of using a PC .
Apple 's official word on the matter is : Make sure the proper wattage adapter for your portable computer is used . Select the appropriate power adapter for your Apple portable computer . You can use a higher wattage power adapter , but you can not use one with less wattage without potential operating issues . ( <URL> + discussion <URL> ) . So your 13 " can use your 15 " charger , but not vice versa . I 've never heard of it voiding a warranty ( nor experienced it when we 've used the wrong charger ) , but it 's better to be safe than sorry .
The MacBook Pro has the same number of pixels as the Cinema Display but a smaller area to show them on . That makes the pixels on the MacBook Pro smaller . Since windows and text are a certain number of pixels in size , screens with smaller pixels will make them appear smaller . The solution is to choose a lower resolution on the screen with smaller pixels ( the MBP in your case ) . Choosing a lower resolution means that each pixel of data will be drawn across multiple physical pixels , making everything bigger . I ca n't tell you exactly what resolution to use on your MBP to get things close to the same size , but it should n't be hard to find out with a little testing . Open System Preferences - > Displays and go to the Display tab of the window on your MBP . Check the Scaled radio button and pick the second resolution on the list that appears . If that is n't big enough , move on to the next ( lower ) resolution , etc. . Stop when you get to one that makes things similar in size across both displays . Note that , as a result of this , your MBP 's display may not look as nice . Things wo n't look as crisp and some resolutions will have to stretch things sideways .
It 's unlikely they will actually damage your MacBook Pro by delivering too much power to it . But there are many cautionary tales to be found on the internet of third party chargers overheating , and occasionally catching fire or exploding . Technically , using a non-Apple charger without Apple 's written permission may also void your warranty if anything did go wrong . Personally , I would n't risk it .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
You should get a mini DisplayPort to VGA adapter ( sometimes referred to as a Thunderbolt to VGA adapter , but it 's the same thing ) . Apple <URL> , but they can be had elsewhere for less , including at my personal favourite , <URL> . You could do HDMI to VGA , but it would require a ( typically bulky ) active adapter . There are some HDMI to VGA adapters that are n't active , but they rely on graphics card support that Macs do n't have . The DisplayPort to VGA adapters are technically active adapters , but for whatever reason they seem to be much more compact than HDMI to VGA ones . There are USB based display adapters , and some of them have VGA output , but I 'd only recommend them for situations where other outputs are n't available . They 're essentially a USB connected graphics card , which means that performance is lacking , and it takes up CPU and memory resources that the built-in outputs do n't . Useful for some situations , but in your case I 'd stay away .
According to Apple the answer is no , but OWC has <URL> and found that there are no issues putting 16GB ( 2x8GB ) in the latest generation MacBook Pro . The upgrade does n't come cheap , though - at this time 2x8GB modules will set you back $ 1599 . <URL>
end question
start question
Force Chrome to use OS X notifications ?
Yes you can with this experimental feature . Open to enable the feature , then restart Chrome .
Exporting Your Chrome Bookmarks Chrome stores bookmarks in a non-HTML format so you need to export them first before you can import them in to Safari . Select from the menu bar in Chrome In the Bookmark Manager UI select Select a location to save the file ( I suggest ) in the File window dialog and click the button Import the Exported Bookmarks in to Safari In Safari select from the menu bar Navigate to the folder where you saved the exported HTML bookmarks file , select the file and press the button Your bookmarks will be imported in to a bookmark folder named . For example , on the day of writing this answer , my imported bookmarks were placed in a bookmark folder named . You can organize your bookmarks in Safari by selecting to open the bookmark editing interface in a tab . Move and re-arrange your imported bookmarks to suit your needs .
There is no way to do this from the client level , but you may be able to configure something in your router . It 's usually by design that a router will maintain a listing of the MAC addresses of the clients that it has handed out an IP address too , and when the timeout for the DHCP lease happens , it gives the same IP to the same MAC . If there has been some lapse and the client is n't connected at the point the lease expires , they will very often " reserve " the IP address ( or at least put it to the back of the lease queue ) it did have just in case it requests another lease , and can therefore give it the same one again , on the proviso that it does n't run out of IP addresses to give to active clients , in which case the IP will be recycled to a new client . Running a manual DHCP refresh before your lease expires will likely pull the same details . One potential solution , although this is at the server end , is to run 2 DHCP servers , each with half of the range available to them to assign out . You can then write a simple client script that switches the DHCP server on the Mac , and then refreshes its lease . You would need to ensure that each single DHCP server has a range large enough for all your clients , because there is the potential to have all your clients on 1 server in certain circumstances .
Sure . Just go to System Preferences/Network , select Wifi and click Advanced . A list with all the Wifi networks you 've been connected to will appear . Just rearrange the connection order ( the ones you 'd like to connect first on top ) by drag-dropping . Also , delete any unwanted network SSID ( network names ) if you no longer want to auto-join that .
All you need is to open Terminal.app and type : That way the system will be forced to terminate all open programs , ignoring any unsaved file changes . So , in order to be able to launch it via the desktop , you need to open Applescript editor , and type : Save the script as an Application , and drag it in your Dock , or somewhere where you 'll find it instantly .
Yes , you can add an OS X Server calendar as a separate account through Settings → Mail , Contacts , Calendars → Add Account → Other → Add OS X Server Account . This is a completely separate account to your iCloud account . You can allow sync outside of your LAN by forwarding the relevant ports .
I think he 's asking about actually using an iPhone as a GPS module for a laptop , rather than sending a location which can be viewed on a laptop . This functionality is n't available unless you jailbreak your iPhone , then you can use xGPS or any of the similar apps on Cydia which can turn your iPhone into a bluetooth GPS module .
To be honest the question is a little bit huge . Your ssh keys could have been generated if you activated the sshd ( Remote Login ) from the sharing preference pane ; as to what could have used ( or uses them ) , it 's any program ( like Git , Subversion , SFTP , etc ) that requires ssh access . Not sure exactly which one could have generated for you , but you can always remove them and see what fails ( save a backup ! ) .
A new iPad version of Chrome has this feature where you can type chrome : / / history into the search field / address bar to retrieve history . Currently the iOS version of Google Chrome is 28.0.1500.16 so presumably older versions of the app do not have any way to get history , but newer versions do .
Update : The below hack worked when using <URL> instead of the DWA-160 ones . Compatible drivers using the same chipset were identified with the help of the <URL> database . A quick Google search shows that <URL> in using <URL> ( which uses the <URL> ) , although not without some minor hacking to make the driver recognize the different hardware IDs : Install driver package Extract kernel extension from installer : Show Package Contents of the installer <URL> Archive.pax.gz grab AtherosOtusMac.kext Edit plist and change or add your device id and product id converted to decimal ( illustrated below ) : Show Package Contents of AtherosOtusMac.kext Open Info.plist within ( using either Xcode or a text or XML editor ) Open System Information , find your TP-Link under USB and note down Product ID and Vendor ID Convert both numbers from hexadecimal to decimal ( you can use Calculator.app ) Replace idProduct and idVendor on the first model with your numbers Use <URL> to install your modified AtherosOtusMac.kext use DWA-160 . app ( in ) to connect Although considering the price of a new Wifi USB stick with OS X drivers , this may not be worth the effort , unless you 're doing this sort of thing for fun :-) Illustration of the plist step ( with my USB mouse as example , because I do n't have a TL-WN821N laying around ) :
What would happen if I were to force the Intel drivers for the Linux kernel into Mac OS X ? Would it work ? Would there be severe instability or data loss ? Is it even possible ? At best ? 100 % nothing . At worst ? Crash your whole system and make it unusable or even unbootable . While Mac OS X and Linux are both different " flavors " of Unix , you ca n't just grab parts from one OS and just install it into the other OS and expect them to work . That said , if there is source code for the driver somewhere , you could potentially compile them for Mac OS X using the Xcode suite of development tools . But that is one big if . The reality is compiling Linux application source code on a Mac OS X system from a Linux system is a crapshoot . Sometimes it works and you get to use nice Linux tools on a Mac OS X system . But sometimes it just wo n't work . And that is at the application level . On the driver level it 's even less plausible or doable ; and even if it was doable it would be difficult to do that at best . That said , <URL> . But note that the versions of Mac OS X referred to are Mac OS X 10.4 and 10.5 ; nothing more modern .
Flipping Byte flip and word flip will swap bytes or words . Technically it works like this : Let 's say we have a two byte value ( hexadecimal ) : 0x3344 The number consists of two bytes , the lower one is 0x44 , and the higher one is 0x33 , so let 's put them into two imaginary cells of one byte size : Now , flip the cells : Therefore byte flipped value will be 0x4433 Same way with words , considering word consists of two bytes . Let 's assume we have a two-word value : 0x12345678 Split them into two imaginary cells , now containing one word ( 2 bytes ) each : Now , flip the cells : Therefore word flipped value will be 0x56781234 Shifting Shifting shifts values bitwise . What does it mean ? Let 's take a very simple decimal number : 5 Then , let 's convert it to its binary representation : 101 Then , let 's shift it left by 1 : We basically moved the whole binary sequence left one position and filled the empty space with zero . Now do the same , but with shifting right : our number is 10 now . The lower 1 is lost by shifting right . The zero on the left is just for display and has no value . / / Technically there 's a CPU flag which indicates that the bit was lost , but it is not relevant to the calculator . Rotating Rotating works absolutely same as shifting with one exception : bits are never lost . So , we take the same decimal value 5 and its binary representation 101 . Then we rotate it right within a byte : As you can see , the [ 1 ] which was lost on the shifting right was carried on the beginning of our byte . Same with shifting left , let 's perform series of rotations by 1 bit left until we carry one bit :
I 've managed to get DBP installed on my Mac ( version 10.6.8 ) . I 've made the compiled plugin available on my blog , since compiling Gimp from MacPorts took an overnight compilation session , and is way too much hassle for folks who just want to plug-n-play . So ... anyone is welcome to <URL> as they wish . If it 's useful , please comment , and if it does n't work , please comment ; in either case if you can state versions of OS X and Gimp , that will hopefully help other users trying to avoid compiling it themselves !
I recommend <URL> which lets you set up macros with various actions that can be triggered with keyboard shortcuts or other triggers .
If you can bring the image into Disk Utility , use the convert option . Choose CD/DVD master , it will save as a . cdo . Rename to . iso .
The minecraft server writes a log file into the directory is installed in . From there you can use something like Starting this automatically together with your Minecraft server is possible but depends on the way you do start it . To install this ( without going too deep into Unix territory , ask an expert if it fails ) : open Terminal.app change to the directory where minecraft_server.jar is installed by typing followed by drag &amp; dropping the folder with the server into the terminal window followed by return write and press return ( twice ) paste the code from above press ^ X and say Y at the prompt
The company should have an Apple ID set up . I would recommend that this is registered to a member of the IT team who is most responsible for software purchasing . Then they can download OS X Lion from the app store , and have the license . Is there a business requirement to be running Lion or is this user preference ?
In Calendar.app , you can right-click on any calendar , and choose Get Info . From here you can select Ignore Alerts
<URL> provides a compatibility list for multiple versions of OS X . You can search for an application by name or compatibility status , to quickly scan for apps that are known to be incompatible . <URL> <URL> Apps can be <URL> , and also includes iOS compatibility if applicable . You can also check for feature support , to see if apps contain the latest features available in the new OS , such as iCloud Keychain and App Nap .
Yes - it 's the same whole disk encryption . In both instances you end up with a volume wrapper and key storage to unlocks the encrypted file system where the data is safely stored . Disk Utility is a bit of a chore to set up encryption of an external drive , so I usually just wipe the drive and set it for Backups and then tell Time Machine to encrypt the drive . It handles the formatting , generating the crypto keys and lets you choose a passphrase to unlock the keys . You can use from the command line ( in terminal.app ) to show the encryption status and details . There 's nothing wrong with disk utility other than the steps involved to reach an equivalent drive setup . Here is what a fully encrypted and locked USB drive looks like when you set up Time Machine and instruct it to encrypt backups to an external drive :
end question
start question
Does an iOS virtual machine exist for Windows ?
Simple answer : No . Apple does not allow iOS to run anywhere else but iOS devices ( iPhone , iPad , iPod touch ) and the Xcode simulator . You could simulate OS X on your Windows VM application and then use Xcode to simulate an iOS device , but this would be really taxing on your computer and really not worth the effort , but you can not simulate iOS directly on Windows because of chipsets and Apple preventing it .
Several built in tools exist to assist with this sort of thing , but many of them are intended to help people with limited vision etc , whereas I understand that you want to hear particular words etc possibly as a learning tool . You can still configure certain settings to help you do this . In you can use to read out all screen interaction , allowing you to also perform a quick 3 finger down swipe across text to have it narrated to you . There are various options for altering the lnaguages and dialects , the voice pitch and quality etc , but it does all tend to compromise using your device for anything else unless you are of limited vision etc. . In the same area , there is also ; this is far more subtle , allowing you to select any text via the usual techniques , to which the option to the selection is added , and you can configure various options as per the screenshot below . This latter method is ideal for speaking snippets of text because it is a system tool , and will allow for the technique to work in any app in which you can select text . The downside is that it is intended to be an accessibility tool for visually impaired people , and the pronunciation of the text is still very much " computer speak " , resulting in some words being pronounced oddly or even incorrectly as all the narration is being synthesized rather than using a base of real natural language to form words . In the same text menu , you also have the , allowing you to pull up a dictionary definition of the word . I 've never been able to make any sense of the pronunciation hints in dictionaries that appear next to names , but if you can , then here it is to see ( You can also change dictionaries if appropriate , you should be prompted to download one if you do n't already have one ) As for 3rd party apps , I do n't know of any that are available which have the specific purpose of reading aloud content with a primary purpose of pronunciation , this sort of tihng often requires large and complex databases containing snippets of genuine voice recordings which can be cut together to read aloud text with a far more natural sound that many of the simpler synthesized techniques as per above .
Page 27 of the September 2015 <URL> states that there is not a firewall on iOS . On other platforms , firewall software is needed to protect open communication ports against intrusion . Because iOS achieves a reduced attack surface by limiting listening ports and removing unnecessary network utilities such as telnet , shells , or a web server , no additional firewall software is needed on iOS devices .
Microsoft has released a version of <URL> It is available in the App Store for users with OS X 10.9 or later .
Not at this point , no . WebKit , that which Safari for Mac OS and iOS are both based on , is supposed to support WebGL but I have yet to be able to get it work properly on Mac OS 10.6 , much less iOS . I get the impression the whole thing is too new ( relatively ) for proper support .
The usual format for this on OS X is a disk image ( aka . dmg ) . To create them you can use Disk Utility.app ( in / Appications/Utilities ) : insert the DVD you want to create the image from start Disk Utility select " New Image " from the toolbar and pick the DVD as a source . The . dmg can be stored wherever you want to To open/use it afterwards , just doubleclick it in Finder .
I 'm running OSX under VMWare , and as long as you do n't run the VM in full screen , Display Preferences shows the screen size as the current window size , minus any host window borders . With this you can resize the window manually to get close to the resolution you require . The caveat to this is that you ca n't " set " the screen size to an exact amount , but with a bit of playing about you can get the resolution within a few pixels . You will need a monitor with a larger resolution as the VM window does take away some pixels , so if your monitor is only 1280 wide , you will never get a full 1280 width with this method .
The server admin tools and associated documentation will walk you through how this works on Mac OS X . There are even worksheets that help you work through the myriad possibilities before you set up OS X Server . It depends on how the server was " set up " so perhaps you can find out whether yours expects to control the user accounts and have the clients control themselves with a local policy file pointing to the server or if the server expects to set up the mac clients as well . Hit the books and do know you can ask more specific questions later of one specific item is holding you up . I prefer using <URL> until I 'm comfortable with the specifics for each site ...
If you hold command and quickly tap tab you will cycle between your two most recently used applications without bringing up the heads up display . If you want to use a third party app <URL> has options to ignore minimized windows .
There is a wine port for OS X : <URL> From the project page : Current Status ( x86 ) Wine works well on OSX for Intel based Macs minus a proper distribution package ( Mac Application Bundle ) to fully integrate with " drag and drop " and " open " or " open with " functionality . Wine also has shortcomings with desktop icon integration and execution of certain types of DOS or blended Windows/DOS programs . ( Notice that Darwine , the original effort to port Wine to OS X , was primarily written for PowerPC Macs . Some work was done to support Intel Macs , but it is <URL> , so you are better off avoiding it . ) There are no official Wine packages available for Intel Macs as of this writing , so you 'll have to use a third-party application like WineBottler ( <URL> ) , PlayOnMac ( <URL> , for Snow Leopard and Lion ) . or Wineskin ( <URL> , for Lion and Mountain Lion ) . daviewales has mentioned in a comment below a package manager I did n't know of called Homebrew ( <URL> ) . You may want to give it a try . Otherwise you can try the commercial product CrossOver , which is basically Wine with , as Wikipedia puts it , various compatibility patches added , more user-friendly configuration tools , and commercial support . You can download a free trial here : <URL>
Search for in Lion or later ( or in Snow Leopard and earlier versions of Mac OS ) in Spotlight ( press ⌘ and Space ) . The program is in / Applications/Utilities and is the tool to see the connected USB devices and other hardware details . It is quite simliar to on Windows . Alternatively you can access it via the Apple Menu - > - > - > The System Information can save system profiler information to a file , so you could review an older snapshot to see what was connected once , but the Mac OS does n't record all the devices connected - just the ones actually connected when you run the tool and it scans the current items on the device tree .
You basically have three options for Virtualization on Mac OS X : The already mentioned ( and free ) <URL> The first solution for Mac ( and arguably one of the best ones these days ) <URL> The very famous <URL> , from VMWare Inc. . Any of these will allow you to run a variety of OSs under OS X without resorting to bootcamp or repartitioning . The last two are not free , but - depending upon your needs - vastly superior in terms of features to VirtualBox . I have the three . I have used the three extensively . In its current versions , Parallels is ahead of VMware . But this changes very often with new versions . Virtual Box is ok but slower ( to virtualize ) and has way less features . VMware is very stable . It never crashed in more than three years of daily usage . Parallels does perform certain tasks faster than VMware , but will occasionally crash the VM . ( It happened about 5 times in a two year period ) . In the end , either will work if you do n't need anything fancy .
If Windows 8 has been released in your country , you should be able to find a reseller with the System Builder version available as a DVD . Local system builders is a pretty big business in most countries so just look around for someone offering custom built Windows systems . A quick Google search on " create a DVD ISO on OS X " shows lots of how-to articles for that step . You can either use an external DVD reader ( maybe $ 30 ) or get somebody with a DVD to create the ISO for you .
On Linux , the <URL> project aims to support decoding FileVault2 . Yogesh Khatri wrote an <URL> where he suggests starting with <URL> . On Windows , the company Passware claim support for decrypting FileVault2 drives as part of <URL> . A <URL> mentions the software and highlights the feature in an included screenshot :
According to Apple , yes , iOS 5 will support the iPhone 3GS . Apple 's <URL> for iOS 5 claims that iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS iPhone 4 iPod touch 3rd generation iPod touch 4th generation iPad iPad2
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
You need to extend the windows disk size from a running windows . Here is how you do it : <URL> Now that you have extended the VMware image size , you need to start at # 6 in the link . EDIT : I do n't want to write a new answer , and the comment text-box is n't large enough - so here is a more less re-write of the link : 1 ) extend the VMware image size . 2 ) attach the HD image to an existing virtual disk of the same OS as the resized image ( Virtual Machine Libary - > [ select the VM to use ] - > Settings - > Hard Disks - > [ click + ] - > [ select the new HD in left menu ] - > File name - > Choose existing disk ... - > [ navigate to the resized image , and select the . vmdk ] - > [ choose " Share this virtual disk ... " ] - > Open - > Apply ) - if you will go the safe way , you 'll choose " Make a separate copy af the virtual disk " instead of the " Share this virtual disk ... " 3 ) Start the virtual machine that you just attached the new HD to . 4 ) Now because you are using Windows 7 , you need to go to " Start - > Computer Management - > Disk Manager " and right-click on the partition you need to extend , and select " Extend Volume " . 5 ) power off ( shutdown VM ) - and remove the HD attached in # 2 - do n't delete it ... ! 6 ) if you in # 2 choose to make a copy of the . vmdk , then you need to replace it manually in the VMware image file ( package ) - right click on the VMware image ( . vmwarevm ) - > Show Package Contents . 7 ) Power on the virtual machine from # 1 , and verify the disk size change .
With the help of <URL> , I 've compiled a list of all the connectors used on Mac portables in the last decade or so . If you stick with machines since 2009 ( actually late 2008 discounting one iteration of the 17 " MBP ) , you can get away with just a mini-Displayport adapter . Adding to that a DVI and mini-DVI adapter will cover you every Intel ( 2006 and on ) portable ( as well as most G4 PowerBooks ) , except for the first MacBook Air ( of which there are n't many , but it requires a micro-DVI adapter ) . Mini-Displayport/Thunderbolt MacBook Pro 13 " and 15 " : Late 2008 and on 17 " : Early 2009 and on MacBook : Late 2009 and Mid 2010 MacBook ( Aluminum ) : Late 2008 MacBook Air : Late 2008 and on DVI ( full-size ) MacBook Pro : 2006 to early 2008 ; late 2008 ( 17 " only ) PowerBook G4 ( 15 " and 17 " ) : April 2002 and on Mini-DVI MacBook : early 2006 to Mid 2009 PowerBook G4 ( 12 " ) : September 2003 and on Micro-DVI MacBook Air ( original , early 2008 ) Mini-VGA iBook : May 2002 and on PowerBook G4 ( 12 " ) : January 2003 model ( PowerBook6 ,1 )
<URL> allows you to AirPlay audio and video from iOS to Windows . It claims to support iOS 9 now also ( note I personally have n't tested the iOS 9 support yet ) . Reflector installs an app that acts as an AirPlay and Google Cast receiver . The app is available for Windows , Mac , Android , or Amazon Fire . Since Reflector supports receiving both AirPlay and Google Cast it can receive audio/video from iOS or Android . It 's from Squirrels , the same company that makes the excellent <URL> app ( which allows you send AirPlay audio and video from Windows and Mac to AirPlay and Google Cast ) .
10.7 ( Build 11A511 ) guest in VirtualBox 4.1 greater Whilst end user forums are currently limited to Mac OS X Server , not updated for Lion , there is <URL> . With the most recent VirtualBox it is unnecessary to convert disk images ; . dmg files are recognised . Depending on your approach , you might see : -- ( <URL> ) -- I saw that at least once . Suggestion A : await media from Apple I recommend this most strongly . Await Apple 's provision of Lion on a USB thumb drive . It may be something greater than 11A511 and if so , that greatness may be more suitable for use in virtual machines without the need to hack ( see caution below ) . Suggestion B : attempt upgrade from Snow Leopard within the virtual machine In the virtual machine : install Snow Leopard then ( honouring Apple 's license for Snow Leopard as far as possible in this situation ) use that installation for nothing other than an immediate upgrade to Lion . Attention please to <URL> . Suggestion C : hobby hacking with BaseSystem.dmg mount the hidden Apple_Boot Recovery HD use or to set aside from that volume a copy of the following file : unmount Recovery HD use <URL> with the keyword to remove the flag from the copy that you set aside if you can boot the virtual machine from that . dmg then use Mac OS X Utilities to reinstall using the electronic software distribution downloaded from Apple if at step ( 5 ) you fail , discuss in <URL> . Suggestion D : hobby hacking with InstallESD.dmg At least one Apple Exchange user reports some success with a home-produced DVD burnt from an This may be most tempting and most likely to yield immediate success , of sorts , but in my estimation : hacking with this particular . dmg ( ignoring Apple 's . app for 11A511 as a whole ) carries the greatest long-term risks . Caution ! By using any . dmg out of context , as suggested above , you may be risking the integrity of your installation in ways that we can not predict . Please consider the following extract from Ask Different Chat : <URL> With that caution in mind , my strongest recommendation is ( A ) to wait for Apple to provide USB flash media ( <URL> ) with the assumption that it will be both ( i ) greater than 11A511 and ( ii ) more suitable for virtual machines and other environments that lacked broad support from Apple on the day of Lion 's release . ( Bear in mind : day one was almost totally oriented to download-based upgrades from Snow Leopard . )
end question
start question
How do I add a wireless printer ?
If the wireless printer has joined the network , OS X should see it listed as a nearby printer . From the Print &amp; Scan pane in System Preferences , click the Plus ( ) button in the lower left , and it should show up in the popup menu . If it does n't , select " Add Other Printer or Scanner ... " In the resulting window , the " Default " Tab will show all local Bonjour printers , as well as any connected directly via USB . If you know the local IP of the printer you want to add , you can enter this in the IP tab .
A . dmg file is kind of like an USB stick in a file and can be handled more or less the same way . To install from a . dmg file you usually do the following : double click the . dmg to make its content available ( name will show up in the Finder sidebar ) , usually a window opens showing the content as well drag the application from the . dmg window into / Applications to install ( may need an administrator password ) wait for the copy process to finish eject the . dmg ( by clicking the eject button in the Sidebar ) delete the . dmg from Downloads
Probably not , but you can use the ExpressCard slot instead The model you mentioned ( 17 " MacBookPro8 ,3 late 2011 ) does seem to have a separate Wifi/bluetooth assembly , but you 'll probably have a very hard time finding a matching replacement in both size and connection . I did n't find a disassembled 17 " model , but the card in the 15 " of the same generation <URL> ( 4 antenna connectors and what is probably some sort of PCI Express cable ) . However , since yours is a 17 " , it does have an ExpressCard slot , where you can stick in a Wifi card of your choosing ( <URL> ) without even having to take the whole machine apart . Or patch around your Linux kernel with one of the BCM4331 drivers that are out there , but I assume you 've already tried that .
I use three avenues to prevent hurt feelings all around . First the policy for employee use of equipment spells out that it 's their responsibility to turn in their company equipment and assets . For iOS devices , that means that they remove iCloud activation lock and return the hardware in working order . The financial consequence of failing to do both is explained when the hardware is issued . HR can then choose to deduct that amount from any final pay check as appropriate should the employee choose not to return company property . Apple is very helpful in unlocking equipment that was bought through their channel or that you have a purchase receipt with serial numbers included proving original ownership . Any genius bar or web/phone Apple epmployee can get you started with unlocking one or several devices should you have them but not control of them . MDM solutions such as JAMF casper suite or Configuration profiles to enable remote wipe and/or iOS policies that prevent iCloud usage in the first place if desired and/or allow wiping them to a known original configuration .
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
Right click on the word and choose Spelling and Grammar from the list . Then select Show Spelling and Grammar . You 'll see the option to " learn " the word ( see picture ) . The learned words are stored in . applies to all languages and for example only applies to U.S. English . When you press the learn button , the word is added to if the spelling language is set to automatic or to if the spelling language is set to U.S. English . If you edit the files in directly , you can apply the changes by terminating the process . Just quitting and reopening applications does not apply the changes .
<URL> <URL> There are also some free alternatives , most notable : <URL> and <URL> .
Use a smart folder . Right click the Finder in the Dock Select New Smart Folder Press the plus button Select kind . Select Last Modified/Opened or whatever you want . Select ' This Mac ' Save your smart folder . When saving , make sure ' Add to Sidebar ' is checked . Name your smart folder and you 're good to go !
At the moment there is not shortcut to add/remove spaces in Lion
A PList file , like Mankoff said , is just a specially formatted XML file , so you can actually edit and create them in a program like TextEdit . Because of the specific nature of PLists to Development , however , using a special program like or becomes a much more fruitful endeavor . This is because it not only automatically formats the XML code for you , but it will actually translate the key identifiers and layers into readable words , and also for some values it will provide a drop-down menu to fill in the correct responses . Especially when dealing with iPhone plists , when multiple runtime variables can be set using the Plist , easily creating new fields and knowing what to put in them makes it so much easier . You can get bot Xcode and PList Editor from the Apple Developer website <URL> for free by downloading the latest Xcode release .
You can define a preset from the print dialog . First change the settings for what you want , and then choose the Presets > Save As ... menu . If you leave your preset selected , it will be selected the next time also , so you will never have to change it .
No - the playlists only get curated from the playlist tab . The iPods with physical buttons have an " add to playlist " functionality that worked this way but there 's nothing yet in iOS 4 or less to do a similar thing . The drawback there is everything got added to the " on the go " playlist - not an arbitrary one .
The coders at Gmail need to add it , it 's not a user option , I 'm afraid . If Google add it , then it has to go past Apple 's reviewers , to check it 's as safe as they think it is . Sandboxing is pretty tight under iOS . The feature you want is not impossible , it just needs to be implemented at source , not added by the user . The end result is no-one needs an anti-virus scanner on an iDevice ;) Try reporting it on the <URL>
That would be difficult for the conditions described . Looking for most portable solution , I think this <URL> might do the job . <URL>
Select a buddy in messages , go to the Buddies menu , then click on ' Show Info ' . In the " Info for window , go to the tab on the very right called ' Address Card ' . Next to their picture , is a checkbox for " Always use this picture " . I believe this is the option you want .
Does it have to be one of those HP printers ? No . It can be a Brother , or an Epson , or others . First , <URL> ? Second , after reading that page , at the bottom , did you follow the <URL> that was provided ? Printers not listed in this article are not supported by AirPrint . Note : Some printers listed in this article will require a firmware update out of the box to become AirPrint-enabed . See the manufacture 's documentation or website for details . The AirPrint-enabled printer must be connected to the same home Wi-Fi network as the iOS device . This is the default configuration in most home Wi-Fi networks . Now , assuming that you DID both of these things , and you did see the model printers that were being offered by all those different manufacturers ... what is your actual question . Are you asking if one of those printers listed there actually works to allow printing from your iPhone ? If you really want to stick with an HP , it can be any one of these ...
Run this Terminal command ( as an administrator ) , replacing " usersaccountname " with the user 's actual account name : When it prompts you , enter your password ( it wo n't echo ) . That user should now be able to administer printers .
It turns out the answer had been on the screen all along . There 's a + button under both the Services side and the Servers side . You can add to both .
Are you talking about a <URL> ? To my knowledge , they are predominantly single ear because they are meant to substitute putting a phone up to your ear . However , there does exist bluetooth stereo headsets that can handle music and make calls using their built in microphone . They are n't nearly as compact however , and likely not as battery efficient . Take a look at the <URL> if that is what you are in the market for . Do give the guys at the store a break when you return the product . You are a rarity to request a stereo headset as 99 % sold in stores today are single ear piece units .
While the Dock does n't have the concept of " folders " for the apps that are pinned to or running in it , as of Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard the <URL> feature can provide something similar . Dragging the Applications folder from the Finder into the " Stacks section " ( right of the white-dashed line ) of the Dock will add it as a Stack . You can then click the folder to see something like this : If you want subsets of your Applications as separate Stacks , you can create folders for each somewhere in your filesystem , and add <URL> for the desired applications . ( Note that dragging an app from the Applications folder to another folder makes an alias by default . Convenient ! ) The results look like this : All this being said , an alternative if you have OS X 10.7 Lion is to use <URL> to organize and access your apps , keeping the contents of your Dock as minimal as possible .
end question
start question
Which Macbook Pro Hi-Res screen is better for editing photos ?
In my experience I would have to say the glossy . Even though the resolutions are the same , I really think that the glossy has much better color reproductions and looks more natural . The anti-glare tends to dull the colors , making it more difficult to judge when making adjustments . In fact , both my wife and I went with the glossy earlier this year for exactly this reason ( photo editing ) . She has a lot more experience with photoshop than I , and she was blown away by the difference in color between the two .
you can add the sleep function to the touch bar through system preferences > keyboard > customize control strip and then drag the sleep icon to the touch bar , allowing you to put it to sleep by pressing 1 button .
The only other app on the Mac that can access photostream is Aperture . So your choices are migrate to Aperture - and that 's even less designed with sharing in mind - or fix iPhoto . Performance issues like you describe can be down to a number of issues - Disk Space , Ram , bunged up caches and so on . What fixes have you tried ?
The primary cons for the MacBook Pro are : heavier and more bulky compared to the Air noticeably slower HDD versus SSD at the same price point only has a 1280x800 screen resolution Note : but is <URL> than the one in the Air , with a more accurate color gamut . Things that sold me on the MacBook Pro over the 13 " MacBook Air : the MacBook Pro is more future-proof and upgradeable and offers more value for the money in my opinion . Primarily Upgradeable RAM , the Pro Comes with 4 GB and so does the MacBook Air , but the key point is that I can just order it with the 4 GB for the Pro , knowing that I will be able to upgrade to 8 GB or even 16 GB at market rate for RAM whenever I want to . I can not do that with an Air , you either order the 4 GB and shorten the usable life of your computer or pay upfront to upgrade to at most 8 GB at a premium price ( thats shoddy and I would like to avoid that ) . Secondly the MacBook Pro as of Mid-2012 version still has a standard form factor drive bay where you can purchase and install 3rd party 2.5 " SATA Laptop Drives of your choice in SSD or standard hard disk drives . And then the bonus features in order of importance to me , all of which without the need for external dongles and adapters : Gigabit Ethernet Firewire 800 port SuperDrive ( optical drive ) Standard Audio headphone jack that can do both output or input over analog or digital cables Has n't moved to the new MagSafe 2 adapter format So the flexibility and value of the MacBook Pro sold me on it , its really sad to note that all MacBooks will probably be Airs ( like the MacBook Pro Retina ) soon enough and this value option will be nothing but a thing of the past , so enjoy it while it lasts .
According to Apple , no . The iMac Retina 5K does not support Target Display Mode . Note that the iMac ( Retina 5K , 27-inch , Late 2014 ) does not support Target Display Mode . You can see it <URL> .
The following <URL> by <URL> confirms that ... It is now possible with the Panasonic/Matshita UJ167 9.5 mm slot-loading BD-ROM drive , and/or the UJ-267 BD-Recorder drive , and some extra software : Mac Blu Ray Player from MacGo . However , these blu-ray drives are not a " 100 % direct swap out replacement " : There is a slight difference with some mounting points on the top side of the drive . The problem is solved by swapping the drives ' upper casing out . ( see " How to upgrade to the Panasonic/Matshita UJ167 drive " ) Once you finish the upgrade , OS X will " recognize blu-ray discs and it will be available to the file system like any other optical disc " . How to upgrade to the Panasonic/Matshita UJ167 drive This may void your warranty . Try this at your own risk . Remove the original superdrive . ( You can follow instructions by <URL> , for example . ) Remove the top metal shell of the drive itself , by removing its four screws . You 'll also have to peel off a strip of silver tape that connects the top shell to the bottom shell . This will expose the internal guts of the superdrive . It 's this top metal shell that we need to keep , it has the mounting holes in the right spots , so be very careful not to damage it . Do not touch any components inside of the drive . You may want to look up how to do this , it 's a little tricky to free it up successfully . Now remove the top metal shell of the new blu-ray drive in the same fashion . Swap out those top metal shells , and screw the drives back together . The top metal shell from the original superdrive should now be on the new blu-ray drive . Now also swap out the small Y shaped mounting bracket from the plug-side of the superdrive and screw it to the new blu-ray drive - those two screw holes do match up exactly already . Carefully unplug the flexible data connection cable from the old superdrive and plug it onto the new blu-ray drive . Reinstall blu-ray drive .
When I first switched to Leopard I tried out spaces , both with and without an extra monitor , but I found that I just could n't get along with it whatever I tried . My current solution is to have spaces switched off , with one hot corner for Expose - all windows and another for show desktop . I also use the dock icons to show all the windows for that particular application and Opt-Tab to switch between applications , using all of these I find it is always easy to get the inforamtion I need on screen when I need it .
There are two possible answers here : You are both sharing the same iCloud / . me / . mac account . Look in System Preferences > iCloud > [ Account Details ] on both systems to compare . That your wife has shared a Photo Stream with you . Run iPhoto and look at the left hand sidebar in the section named ' Shared ' .
I use a dry microfiber cloth on my screen . I found them in a two-pack of washcloth-sized at Dollar General . If you want a cleaning solution , the Apple Store folks , at least in Madison WI , fully endorse iKlean and use it on their display models every night . I ca n't vouch because I have n't used it , but I figure Apple knows Apple well .
You do n't say how the server mac is sharing the HFS + formatted drive . I would suspect it is AFP in which case the NAS drive format is largely irrelevant . The NAS will store files on it 's storage in whatever format is best for the OS of the NAS , and expose those files through network shares in a single or a variety of formats . The client machines mount the shares and should be unaware of the underlying storage ( just as they will be unaware that it will likely be a RAID configuration of some sort ) Synology , QNAP , Netgear , Drobo and many many others all adopt this approach . The major factor is getting a NAS supplier who fully supports AFP and does not just see it as an afterthought to be tagged on with a bog standard install of the AFP packages which may be out of date or have not been tested or tuned . The introduction of Lion saw a number of NAS devices with difficulties sharing AFP until they could be patched . Of course during this period the users could have switched to using CIFS shares and keep going .
I ended up going with Snow Leopard because Leopard itself was slow ( SL offers countless improvements in how it is built , for Intel Macs only ) , and Tiger , as reminiscent at it would have been to use it , did n't have Time Machine ( which admittedly was n't a requirement in the original question ) . The reason why I did n't go for Lion is because I would n't be able to have it in it 's best iteration : Mountain Lion is reported as superior in speed ( but not compatible with this MacBook ) . Snow Leopard is running fast and smooth , and personally , I think it 's the best fit for this machine .
The size you set in Mail > Preferences for viewing and composing does not actually have any effect on what is seen at the other end . To do that you have to select the font for each outgoing individually in the New Message pane ( and I think also have it different than the font in Preferences ) . Mail 's inability to set a default outgoing font annoys many users , who sometimes then switch to Thunderbird or Entourage/Outlook instead . Also someone did an app here : <URL>
Is depends on the kind of editing you need to do . <URL> is on the App Store . Maybe <URL> too ?
That 's not " ticking , " that 's a creak from the flex in the aluminum chassis . The MBP is not a brick of aluminum but a computer inside a hollow shell . While built solid , there is still play in the materials . The sound you 're hearing is likely the case pressing against the RAM , the battery connector , or the metal protector right beside the battery connector ( or perhaps another component inside the machine ) . If you are worried , take it into Apple . But they 'll tell you the same thing .
Since your iPhone let you sign up for an iCloud account , you have full access to the web services provided by iCloud.com , which include : Contacts Calendars Mail Find My iPhone You are only limited by your computer , but still have access to the web tools . There may be ( unsupported ) ways to get some of these applications on your 10.5 Mac to sync , especially with Mail . Most of iCloud uses standard networking protocols , and therefore older programs may be able to use them . One may want to tread lightly though , since this is unsupported , and may cause issues/corruption in other parts that are supported ( ie , you would n't want to edit your contacts in a way on 10.5 even if you could , since it could break them on your iPhone ) .
Hold down the Command or Ctrl key and click on the icon or file name in the center of the title bar of text edit 's document window . Be sure to click on the title itself . The containing directory structure will be shown in reverse-hierarchical order .
I 've been monitoring my fan speeds for as long as I 've had my device . At idle , the lowest it gets is hovering around 2000rpm . The left fan is usually closer to 2100rpm , actually . The maximum speed appears to be 6000rpm , which occurs during gaming and heavy CPU loads . <URL> lets you monitor and control your fan speeds . The minimum setting is 2000rpm and the max is 6000rpm , so I think we can safely conclude that these are the standard maximum and minimum values .
According to the <URL> , <URL> , Page 20 , the maximum allowed temperature of all the new i3 , i5 , i7 cpus is 105 Celsius degrees so you are approaching the limit . However all cpus are designed in a way that they will send a signal to the motherboard in case the cpu is overheating to either shut-down the pc completely or dramatically reduce the performance ( by lowering the clock-speed ) . Studying <URL> review of the latest MacBook Retina it 's clearly visible that the Macbook pro retina automatically reduces the performance in case of really high temperature over a longer period of time . According to them while running various benchmarks in Half-Life 2 the performance of the retina model dropped by about 5 % compared to the old model which dropped by about 20 % ) . I think you do n't need to worry to much about the temperature . If the cpu is reaching its thermal limit it will automatically try to do something about it . You may even think about investing in a cooling pad as the enclosure of the mac is made out of aluminium , it acts a a massive heat-sink and theoretically you could lower the temperature by using a cool-pad for laptops and fit it underneath .
Try to Option + click on the wifi icon on the menu bar . You 'll see a lot more information about your current wifi connection . It looks something lijke this :
MacBook 's do n't have the extended keyboard which contains the additional 7 function keys ( F13-F19 ) . They 're only on <URL> ( with numeric keys ) keyboard as presented on this photo :
end question
start question
How to have multiple ( wireless ) network profiles ?
You can set up ' Locations ' using System Preferences - > Network , which should do what you need . In the Network System Preferences panel , you 'll see ( at the top ) a pop-up menu labeled Location . It will be set to Automatic . Click that menu and choose Edit Locations ... Click the [ + ] button in the panel that appears . Name your new Location . Click Done . Make sure the new Location is selected under the Location : menu , and set it up . Then , when you need to change back to the other setup , change the location back to Automatic ( or rename Automatic something more descriptive ) . When you need to change again , switch back to your new one .
Nope , not possible within Skitch . The quickest workaround I 've found to achieve that is using Keynote as a canvas , so you can combine the image in no time : open a new ' White ' theme in Keynote drag &amp; drop the 2 images from Skitch to Keynote align the images in Keynote , resize , do some edits if necessary take a snapshot with Skitch
In the network control panel , click the gear at the bottom of the interface list and select " Set Service Order ... " . In that dialog , you can move your WiFi above the ethernet display .
SOLVED ! Solution : The network i was trying to connect to , was set not to distribute it 's ID , so i typed it in or saved it somehow at some point . The fatal error is , the SECURITY TYPE does not match with the wireless router so every time , the computer ask again for the correct type/key combination resulting in , a disconnection from the wireless network :) To fix it , go to Preferences > Network > Advanced and press the plus sign and ADD THE ENTRY MANUAL !!!!!!! and you will be fine . Hope it helps , thank you all !
If minimizing windows to the application icon has not been enabled , you can unminimize all windows with a script like this : This script would unminimize the last minimized window shown in the Dock : This would unminimize all windows in the current application : You can <URL> by for example using FastScripts or Alfred .
I tried some development to a remote Mac once . It was a terrible experience . Even over a LAN , the latency of the display update speed was maddening in what should be an instant-feedback development UI . You could maybe try using virtual machines on the Mac Mini ( I do n't know how this would affect licensing , you 'd probably have to buy another OSX per virtual machine ) which would get around not being able to run more than one iOS Simulator as mentioned in the previous answer ) . While Xcode is a bit of a resource hog I think you could get away with it if its just two users . I agree that a Mac Mini per developer is the sanest solution for your wallet and the kindest one for your developers though .
See <URL> . Quote : Turn Airport Off via Command Line Turn Airport On via Command Line You wo n't see any confirmation in the Terminal that the command succeeded or failed , but if you watch the AirPort menu icon you will see the bars disappear indicating the wireless interface is turned off , or reappear indicating that wireless is activated again . NOTE : In OS X Lion , use the hardware name above instead of , e.g. .
The only visible change that jailbreaking does is the installation of the cydia app on your homescreen . what i would suggest is to go into cydia and get an app called Poof to hide the cydia icon . You can follow the guide here <URL> , or you can hide it in a folder with a bunch of other apps .
Sharing must be enabled . To see the Mac from your PC 's , enable File Sharing ( System Preferences/Sharing/File Sharing ) . You will need to take the additional step of enabling Samba sharing , since PC 's do n't use Apple 's File sharing Protocol ( AFP ) . Do this by then clicking on options , and make sure " Share files and folders using SMB ( Windows ) " is checked . Turn it on for whichever accounts you wish to authorize . In order to see PC shares from your Mac , the PC 's must be on the same network , with sharing enabled . Share a folder or something . Is it XP , Vista , 7 ? If it 's XP , disable Simple File Sharing . Do so by opening a folder , going to Tools - > Options , and find it at the bottom of View . Then right-click a folder , go to Sharing and Security , and enable sharing . If it still does n't show up , you may have a network/firewall issue , and it warrants further help . . but try that to get you started .
UPDATE : I answered my own question as follows : I bought an Apple Airport Express and set it up on my building 's wifi . Then , I connected it by ethernet cable to my Airport Extreme 's WAN port . My Airport Extreme is still functioning just as it always has , broadcasting my local wifi network . I 've been testing this for over a week now and it 's been flawless . Best of all , the current Airport Express model can be found on ebay for under $ 40 shipped .
There are a couple of ways of acheiving this : Adhoc , peer to peer , computer to computer You can create a peer to peer wireless network between devices that does not require an Access point or other routing device . This is usually known as creating an ad-hoc wireless network , or a computer to computer one , rather than an infrastructure one . I currently only have access to a machine with Mountain Lion on , and things appear different ( this method is unavailable ) , but in Lion or earlier you should be able to : Go to the menu bar , go to your network indicator and choose " Create Network ... " Enter a network name , and security settings if required On your iPad , go to Settings , go to WIFI and choose the network you just created . Enter the password if you set one and you should get connected . Any devices connected this network should only be able to communicate with other devices on the network , no routing or other traffic is available . Internet Sharing Another option is to use Internet Sharing . On the off chance that you have free or cheap hotel internet : Open System Preferences and go to the Sharing pane under the Internet &amp; Network heading . On the list of services to the left , select Internet Sharing . Do n't check it quite yet -- there 's a few options that need to be set first . Depending on what your current internet source is , select it from the menu next to " Share your connection from . " . Built-in Ethernet is a good choice , but if you have a mobile broadband dongle you could select that also . In the " To computers using " box , select and check AirPort/Wifi from the list . Click on the AirPort/wifi Options button to configure security settings if you want any . In the window that pops up , type a basic Network Name , Click OK . Setting up Mac OS X Internet Sharing The configuration portion is finished , so the only thing left to do is check the box next to Internet Sharing and enable it . A confirmation message will appear -- click Start to complete the process . Now that your Mac 's internet is being transmitted from your AirPort WiFi card to other devices , you should see an different icon in your menu bar . If you do , you 're in business ! On your iPad , go to Settings , go to WIFI and choose the network you just created . Enter the password if you set one and you should get connected . Now any machine connected to the same wifi network can route through the ethernet or dongle connection on the air . If you have no connection available through those connection , then the same peer to peer communications should be available still .
Sorry , I only know command-line tools to do the job . You can use for that ( like in ) . <URL> and , of course , . Setting Multiple " Power On " &amp; Power Off " Events Currently , it appears that pmset will NOT allow you to set more than one pair of " power on " &amp; " power off " events when using a repeating schedule . For example ... The above command would set a repeating schedule that would shutdown the Mac nightly at 2 AM in the morning and startup daily at 6:45 AM . But , if you want to set multiple " power on " &amp; " power off " events , you could specify a specific date/time and with a little scripting you could setup a schedule for a month .
Firefox <URL> is a shell scripts that will install all major versions of Firefox on OS X , and set up separate profiles so you can use them simultaneously . Currently it installs : Firefox 2.0.0.20 Firefox 3.0.19 Firefox 3.5.9 Firefox 3.6.28 Firefox 4.0.1 Firefox 5.0.1 Firefox 6.0.1 Firefox 7.0.1 Firefox 8.0.1 Firefox 9.0.1 Firefox 10.0.2 Firefox 11.0 Firefox Beta Firefox Aurora Firefox Nightly Firefox UX Nightly You can set it up so it only installs the specific versions you want . Optionally , the script can install Firebug for each version of Firefox too . It will also set icons that contain the version number : Safari For Safari , check out <URL> . Chrome/Chromium For Chrome/Chromium , install any version you want , change the app name from to e.g. for clarity , then <URL> for that version . Opera Download old Opera versions here : <URL> IE Get VirtualBox and then run <URL> . It will automatically download legal Windows images for testing purposes and set up virtual machines for every IE version you need .
As Robin says , most people would go for OS X Server , because it has tools specifically built to do just this , providing you bind the clients to LDAP . Aside from that , OS X is designed hierarchically . You could try just adding the desired . plist files in / Library/Preferences instead of ~ / Library/Preferences and then deleting said files , if they already exist , from ~ / Library/Preferences ( since files in ~ / Library generally override those in / Library ) There is also the default " User Template " hiding in the System Folder , from which all new users ' home folders are created . You could edit this , but the change would only affect accounts created after the imaged machines have their first boot .
Despite very vague information on Apple 's own website , it is not possible to extend Apple-based networks with non-Apple products . Apple only states : " Wi -- Fi base station - Any variety of AirPort Extreme Base Station , AirPort Express , or Time Capsule . " from this article - <URL>
As a workaround , you could log into the admin section for each AP and look at the active connection list .
\ = Option ⌥ + Shift ⇧ + : { = Option ⌥ + ( } = Option ⌥ + ) You can display the layout in the Preferences ( Language &amp; Text - Input Sources - Show Input Sources in Menu bar ) .
You can purchase a Moshi ClearGuard keyboard protector <URL> and use it on your wireless keyboard . I have one in use at home in the kitchen/family room for our AppleTV 3rd gen. Comes in handy when I 'm cooking and want to use the keyboard as a remote without having to wash my hands ! BTW / Silicon is an element ( # 14 on the Periodic table . ) Silicone is a flexible synthetic polymer used for adhesives , lubricants , cook-wear , insulation , and water-proofing .
The Bluetooth profile necessary for stereo audio , <URL> , is <URL> ( aka " Leopard " ) . As you use 10.4 ( aka " Tiger " ) , the answer to the first part of your question is : Bluetooth audio only works in 64 kbit/s mono quality via the <URL> in 10.4 . Probably not what you want for music listening , even if the headphones support it . As to the second part of your question : You are stuck with wireless solutions working via the audio jack , USB or FireWire . In the case of USB / FW solutions ( if such wireless solutions exist ) , check these for 10.4 compatibility before you invest .
SBProfiles will let you set up profiles for lots of settings on your phone - including sound and vibration . Here 's a YouTube video : <URL> Intelliborn once had an app called MyProfiles ( <URL> ) but it has been discontinued and only works on iOS 4
end question
start question
Possible to automate entering star ratings and play counts for identical/duplicate song in iTunes ?
Here is my little script to do what you are asking for . Tested on a couple of tracks on my iTunes 11 under Snow Leopard and it run just fine . EDIT : You can get a glimpse of what is going on by looking at the output it sents to the Events pane . Just run it inside the Applescript Editor and click on the Events &amp; Replies buttons to unhighlight them . EDIT2 : To limit the script you can change the line to
Yes . Purchased . m4a files contain the purchaser 's name &amp; email address used in the related Apple ID . A quick way round it is to just re-encode them as AAC . With iTunes in Music view , My music right click the column header &amp; make sure ' Kind ' is showing . click that column to sort by Kind scroll to find ' Protected AAC ' songs . right-click/Get Info [ or ⌘ Cmd i ] then see the File tab [ iTunes 12 ] or the Summary tab [ iTunes 11 or earlier ] This will show the purchaser info . To remove ... Preferences > General > Import Settings ... Make sure it 's set to AAC Encoder ( &amp; iTunes Plus for better quality ) Then for each protected song ... right click or File Menu - Create AAC Version . Then delete the old protected versions . You 'll have to do that alphabetically , as in your current sort view , they wo n't show in the same place in the list . Examples of tagging before &amp; after re-encoding as AAC ... Incidentally , it was proved empirically back in 2007 that the audio itself contains no watermark . <URL> Before - from iTunes Store I 've blurred anything that could possibly be identifying After ...
One star is certainly rated higher than none , but in practice , marking one star for the songs you really do n't want to shuffle is a great practice . I have several " utility " playlists to weed out songs and having one star is one of the exclusionary criteria for the source of iTunes DJ my zPartyTracks smart playlist criteria are all of : Album Rating - is not - one star Rating - is not - one star Genre - is not - holiday Time - is less than - 12 minutes As I 've got many songs rated above 1 star , those never seem to show up in playlists that prefer higher rated songs , and the one star songs are relegated to being specifically included even though they did get one star .
Just found <URL> on Lifehacker . I think it 's exactly what you 're looking for . The post talks about a patch called MMFix , which changes the media control daemon to stop exactly this from happening . Apparently , it comes with a one-click installer . And , if some reason you would like to remove the patch , just run the one-click installer again and the original rcd daemon will be restored . ( Works on OS X 10.7 Lion , too ! )
Open the Mac App Store . On the Featured tab , in the right sidebar , there is a link called Account . Under Settings > Reviews and Ratings , click Manage . You can edit / delete your reviews there .
The Music app is pretty limited in terms of the metadata it displays . At the moment it 's not possible to view the play counts for songs . Third party apps can access your music collection , but I 'm not sure how much metadata is exposed to them . It may be possible to see play counts with a third party app , but I do n't know for sure , nor do I know of any apps that do this .
The AppleScript for this is pretty simple : You can make this easily accessible by creating a Service . Open Automator and create a new document . Select the Service document type . Set the Service receives : menu to . Drag in a module and paste that code into its text box . Save the service and give it a name . You 'll now be able to activate it by going to the current app 's menu and choosing Services - > Stop iTunes ( or whatever you named the service ) . You can assign a keyboard shortcut by going to System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Services , finding the service ( it should be under General at the bottom ) and adding a shortcut .
Workaround in iTunes 11 : Click on the Up Next button and press clear . It will stop after the current song regardless where you start the song from .
<URL> , promo codes can only be redeemed for apps themselves and not In App Purchases : Promo codes do n't work for In-App Purchase products , including issues for apps in the Magazines &amp; Newspapers category . Update : It 's <URL> since October 28 , 2016 , see <URL> . <URL>
It appears that as the OS ships , <URL> , but third party solutions have been developed . <URL> appears to be one such solution . <URL> also seems to add some script triggering abilities . I can see it can trigger scripts on <URL> and it can <URL> . <URL> I have no personal experience with these programs or their vendors .
Finder has a menu item found under Go ( " Go to Folder ... " ) where you can type a full path . The command + shift + G keyboard shortcut makes it handy to summon .
The size you set in Mail > Preferences for viewing and composing does not actually have any effect on what is seen at the other end . To do that you have to select the font for each outgoing individually in the New Message pane ( and I think also have it different than the font in Preferences ) . Mail 's inability to set a default outgoing font annoys many users , who sometimes then switch to Thunderbird or Entourage/Outlook instead . Also someone did an app here : <URL>
There are commercial tools that do this very well . Each is a drop in the bucket if you depend on them , but are in the $ 25-35 range since they do many things other than just this one single task . <URL> might be better at a single key command to fill in both a username and password , but <URL> is also very awesome at what it does and might be more useful in the long run if you do n't need a password generation/wallet replacement . <URL> - from where I sit , the best tool for improving web form management securely . It integrates with just about every browser and it very actively being developed . <URL> - also , the best of class for taking short snippets and expanding them no matter what app you need the typing assistance . They do different things and are both on the App Store . Check the developer web sites to see if they have free demo versions - especially if you do n't feel you will need them or have concerns about buying without seeing them .
It used to be that two USB audio interfaces/mics would require you to create an aggregate device in order to use them both at the same time with OS X . As this was still the case in early 2014 ( see the Macworld article , below ) , it probably is still the case today . However , there are differing reports when it comes to identical USB devices . Back in 2011 , an audacity user was testing this specifically <URL> : So , far from being the outlier , Aggregate Device is required any time you plug in two identical USB sound devices . But in 2013 , Blue Microphones themselves <URL> : Because of the nature of USB devices , you wo n't be able to use two of the same USB microphones at once . Since they have similar digital thumb prints your computer wo n't be able to distinguish the devices as separate devices . With that being said , you can use two different USB devices/microphones at once with no problem . As far as being able to use it within a specific program you would have to find out if it allows multiple USB connections [ ... ] So , without further information , your best bet would be to try to create an aggregate device from both mics , and then test with an application which can record multiple channels ( which I assume you already have since you want to do this in the first place ) . <URL> gives details : Plug both USB microphones into your Mac , venture to the Utilities folder ( / Applications/Utilities ) and launch Audio MIDI Setup . In the bottom left corner of the resulting window click the plus ( + ) button and choose Create Aggregate Device from the menu that appears . To the right you 'll see a list of all the audio devices attached to your Mac , including those two mics . Tick the Use checkboxes for the two microphones ( if any of them have multiple entries , look for the one that has a 1 in the In column ) . As you do so , subdevices entries will appear above the list of audio devices . This tells you which mic is using input channel 1 and which is using input channel 2 . If you like , click on the name Aggregate Device in the column to the left and change it to something more intuitive such as " Two Mic Setup . " If you are able to do that , then the resulting device should be both mics , one on each channel , so they can be recorded separately ( or , potentially , recorded as stereo and separated later ) . Of course , if only one of the mics appears in Audio MIDI Setup then it 's possible you wo n't be offered the option of selecting them both when creating an aggregate device . Update : Sadly , <URL> suggests it will not be possible but , if you contact Blue , they should be able to ' reprogram ' one of your mics so you can get this working as an aggregate device : Bue Yetis have identical digitial footprints and therefore no matter how many you plug in , they will be recognized as a single device . I contacted Blue and ultimately I was able to send one of my Yetis to them for reprogramming and now my Mac will recognize it along with another Yeti in order to create an aggregate device . Fair warning , this process took over 2 weeks and I had to pay out of pocket shipping , they paid FedEx ground ( signature required ) back to me .
The easier way to do this is with <URL> . For example : supports options to supply a user name ( -- user = user ) and password ( -- password = password ) if anonymous FTP access is n't available . And a -- quiet mode so it 's - friendly and does n't fill up your local inbox without messages for successful downloads .
If you log in to the iTunes Store with the same Apple ID , you can . Go to the Purchased section ( located in the sidebar on the main page ) and re-download any songs you wish .
As of iTunes 10 ( or possibly 9 ) , the main library window has the option to do exactly what you want . You need to have it in Album List mode ( View menu - > as Album list ; or the 2nd option in the view controller : Then select the " Album by ... " pulldown and select Album by Artist/Year : You should be all set and have a nice organized list of albums sorted by artist and year .
I 'll check my computer when I get home , but everytime I update the ratings on my iPhone there is definitely network activity ( The network spinner is displayed everytime I change the rating ) . So it is definitely updating the iTunes Match library . Whether it updates the PC at home I 'll have to see . I 'm still waiting for it to upload about 600 songs . Edit : I confirmed that ratings and play count definitely are updated right away . PC to device changes take a little longer . I had one song disappear from my phone on my way to work because I accidentally removed it from match the night before and it took some time to propagate .
The columns and metadata that iTunes supports is hard coded unfortunately . There 's no way to add a custom field or column to the browser . You might be able to get a similar effect with some combination of smart playlists and/or some external scripting , but there 's nothing built in that will do what you need .
Downloading &amp; saving as webarchive A command line tool named <URL> will download URLs and save them to format . You can install this tool via <URL> ( alas , not homebrew ! ) or compile it with XCode . I am a XCode dummy , but succeeded with instructions found <URL> . How to operate : Nice file names This lenghty one-liner for terminal allows you to configure the desired URL and will download a YYYY-MM-DD-prefixed webarchive file : This will save a webarchive to your Desktop : If you are not sure what is , enter in Terminal.app ( and press enter , of course ) . Cron I would rather use , as " <URL> " . There is a nice launchd editor named <URL> . Have fun !
end question
start question
Combine powerpoint presentations without changing template/background ?
Unfortunately , this feature is not currently available in PowerPoint 2016 for Mac . If you would like to request this feature , please leave us your feedback at the <URL> . This will help us prioritize new features in future updates . <URL> The link in the help article goes to the general PowerPoint UserVoice page . The specific feature request on UserVoice can be found at : <URL>
Switch to Fullscreen mode , there you have a black background color . And then your background is black :
Here are the steps to save multiple images in Preview into a single multi-page PDF . Select all of the images you want in your PDF , right-click and choose open with Preview In Preview 's Sidebar drag the images into the order you want them to appear in your PDF Select/highlight all the images to be included in the PDF document ; otherwise only a single image may end up the PDF document Then from the " File " menu choose " Print Selected Images " ( or " Print ... " in recent OS X versions ) and then " PDF > Save as PDF "
Not presently . iOS multitasking however is quite different than say the multitasking in Android or Mac OS X . The app unless it specifically is using one of the 7 methods to run in the background is " frozen " and wo n't consume any resources until it 's brought back to the forefront . Essentially the fast app switching feature as part of iOS 4.0 is a large part of why you saw so many apps being updated to work with iOS 4.0 multitasking .
I occasionally have the same problem , usually only after I decline a call by pressing the lock button . A reboot fixes it though ... try rebooting !
Yes , this can be done without OnyX . First head to System Preferences > Desktop &amp; Screen Saver > Screen Saver and select one of the screen savers included in OS X , or a third party screen saver that you 've previously installed . Whichever one you choose , just make sure it 's selected as the active screen saver , even if you have it set to never start in the " Start After " duration drop-down menu . Next , launch Terminal ( located in the Applications > Utilities folder ) , copy and paste the following command , and press the Return key on your keyboard to execute it : Source : <URL>
I do n't know how to do that with Preview.app or iPhoto , but for this purpose you could use an online photo editor . First hit on google here is <URL> - and it does the trick . ( upload the image and you can make it white in several ways , e.g. by pressing B or G after you have set the main color to white , though there wil be more intelligent ways )
Unfortunately , this feature is not currently available in PowerPoint 2016 for Mac . If you would like to request this feature , please leave us your feedback at the <URL> . This will help us prioritize new features in future updates . <URL> The link in the help article goes to the general PowerPoint UserVoice page . The specific feature request on UserVoice can be found at : <URL>
I have found <URL> post showing an AppleScript that you can execute to force that . I have my desktop images set to change every 30 minutes in random order . Sometimes the desktop will display an image that displayed earlier in the day , and I wanted a way to ' advance ' the image easily . The following AppleScript will cause the desktop image to change , in whatever order you have set , each time it is run : And this is the script : Please check the link and the comments for more similar or complete alternatives . Note : I have not tested this . UPDATE I 'm sorry to hear that it did n't work for you , yet it does for me on Snow Leopard with the following script : WARNING This assumes that you have [ X ] " change picture ever x timesteps " [ X ] Random Order The above works for me . I ran it from the AppleScript Editor several times to make sure it was working and it indeed does change the Wallpaper .
So , I FINALLY figured it out ... Instead of deleting the rw disk image , it is enough to rename it .
It appears the correct answer is I can not do this unfortunately .
Yes . Xcode has built-in support for targeting specific devices with your app . It 's as simple as selecting the target device from a drop-down list . This could enable you to create an initial version that targets either iPhone or iPad , and then later switch to Universal and submit it as a new version . The App Store will then automatically recognize that the new version of the app is Universal , and you would need to add additional screenshots , etc. for the new devices .
The Mac mini ( mid 2010 ) is extremely finicky accepting RAM with a faster clock-speed ( some work , some do n't ) . You must use 1066 MHz or buy a pair that is known to be free of issue . For some reason that particular model was <URL> ( many posts on the internet regarding its inability to run under these conditions ) . For what it 's worth , the new Mac mini ( mid 2011 ) do not suffer from the same problem , accepting higher clocked RAM without complaint .
Wake on Lan works great on Macs with the following configuration : Connected using an Ethernet cable . Port forwarding if you 're behind a NAT Router . Enable wake on network access A sleepy Mac ( not Shutdown , it has to be on sleep ) That 's it !
First , you can only merge pdf if they are not protected , if this is the okay : Open both pdf Enable the sidebar in each windows of Preview , then select " Thumbnails " view Drag &amp; drop the cover ( inside the sidebar ) of one pdf into the sidebar of the other pdf . With this method , you can completely merge two pdf or selectively drag &amp; drop the pages you want to merge to create a completely custom new pdf . You can also extract pages from one pdf still using the same manipulation , but drag &amp; drop to the Desktop .
Yes ! You only need to enter from safari and not from the app . You choose the song you want to listen to , press the home button , swipe up to multitask and press play !
If you press and hold the Home button down and keep it down the whole time you are asking Siri the question , letting go of the Home button will signify " end of question . " It takes a little getting used to but it works great . This is not exactly what you asked for but it solves your problem .
No , iOS handles all the allocating and de-allocating of memory ( RAM ) on its own in the back round . Apps have three states , open , suspended and closed . If an app is suspended which is what usually happens when you close an app and it winds up in the tray ( when you double tap home ) and you need more RAM for you game lets say then ios will automatically make room on the stack for the game by closing the apps that are suspended ( in the tray , in the order they were opened , first to last ) which will open up more memory for your game . In short do n't worry about it . You can close them yourself though if you wish by double tapping the home button then long pressing the app ( s ) you wish to close then pressing a red and white circle that will appear in the upper left hand corner of the app icon .
You might be out of luck if you do not have the originals , as you know now the 2010 was compressing the pictures . First save the picture to hard drive and open it with something like iPhoto . If you like the quality there we can continue . If you do not like the quality it is the end of the road , no advanced settings will help here . You could report the picture file size here , like is it in 500k - 1Meg , or more or less than 100k . In second case your only option is to keep the picture size as small as possible to retain the quality ( resolution ) . EDIT : If the pictures look good in original presentation then lets try this . Do not copy paste . Use presentation mode ( full screen ) and make a screenshot ( press cmd + shift +4 ) . You will get a cursor allowing you to select the picture. , and once you have done that it will save it . Now take look at that result first , and if happy then import it in to power point .
No it does n't trigger to run any process . Because the process is always running . The process for doing these kind of things is <URL> . Click <URL> for more information .
end question
start question
how to force sync of calendars on iPhone ?
EDIT : This has been fixed in recent versions of iOS . Please see @LukeWilliams answer which describes simply pulling to refresh the calendars in the calendars list . For deprecated versions of iOS : As of iOS 5 there is no super easy/obvious way to do this . What I have found that works , is opening Settings > Mail , Contacts , and Calenders > Tapping the email account you 'd like to refresh > turn the calendar off > wait while it deletes it > turn the calendar back on . sometimes by forcing a New Event , it triggers syncing .
There 's been much debate and discussion around this topic . I believe it was beneficial for iOS back in the v3 and v4 days but now it 's not . Craig Federighi even came out recently saying it 's not necessary and it does n't increase the battery life . Apple has built-in their memory management the proper time to suspend and/or kill an app when necesssary . The only time you should force-close an app is if it has become unresponsive .
<URL> is a great app for doing all of the command-line stuff necessary to enable Continuity , and it claims to be able to work with USB dongles .
Yes , the best way to sync cross platform is via google . By far the easiest most care free way to sync all contacts , calendars , email etc is to have all Apple devices , this is how Apple meant for this service to be used . Google has done a good job of making this service available to people working on multiple platforms .
Do not delete the download or you will lose the rental . The only method for transferring rentals is between two devices is when you start by renting it from a computer . This is <URL> under the section worded <URL> . If you download a rented movie on your iPhone 4 or later , iPad , iPod touch ( 4th generation or later ) , or Apple TV : It is not transferable to any other device or computer . You can get help from Apple to accomplish this move if you are not certain if your software is the correct version or are having difficulties with your account . They might issue a one time refund , but this is n't intended to be something you can regularly do . If you have a TV and an Apple TV , your best alternative might be to AirPlay the movie , but on Lion , you will need third party software like <URL> to get video and music from your iOS device ( your phone in this case ) to play on the mac . Please research this option well ( especially the returns policy before buying ) , since it says it plays videos and it may not work with protected content like a movie rental .
Damn ... tried to switch to english language at several locations ... Google website , Google calendar , iPhone itself ... ... setting english at <URL> while viewing with iPhone Safari did the trick . The calendars selected there now sync with my iPhone ! Sometimes we need to ask a question to find a solution ourself .
The only way I 'm aware of to do this is to use a jailbreak tweak called Springtomize . Apple will not allow you to do this natively since it affects the aesthetic quality of the device . That 's just Apple !
Yes , you can add an OS X Server calendar as a separate account through Settings → Mail , Contacts , Calendars → Add Account → Other → Add OS X Server Account . This is a completely separate account to your iCloud account . You can allow sync outside of your LAN by forwarding the relevant ports .
For watchOS3 : Press and hold the Side Button Press and hold the Digital Crown For watchOS2 : When the app that you would like to terminate is open : Press and hold the Side Button and wait until the shut down screen appear . Then let go of the side button . Press and hold the Side button again until the home screen appears . Your formerly active app has now been terminated . PS : The Side Button is the button below the Digital Crown .
I have exactly the same set-up :) Mac , iPhone , iPad and girlfriend . I 've got a bunch of calenders , and so does my girlfriend . In Google Calenders , hover on the agenda you want to share and hit the little arrow on the right . A new menu pops open and select " Share this agenda " . Now you can invite other people to this agenda by submitting their e-mail address . And you can give them rights ( read , write , read/write ... ) I hope this works ! If not , please let me know cause it 's a delight to work with a Mac , iPhone , iPad and girlfriend . Trust me , I know ;-) EDIT To get the agenda of your girlfriend , look for the label " Other Agenda 's " on the right and paste your girlfriends ' e-mail there . And if your girlfriend has shared her agendas with you , they will appear on yours .
fingaz 's answer is not quite correct -- they are talking about when you uncheck the " compilation " box in the Get Info window in iTunes , not turning off " Group Compilations " . The short answer is no , at least not at this time . If you want them to not be grouped as a separate " artist " , you would need to alter the metadata in iTunes such that they are n't compilations any more . If this is a feature you would like to see in the Music app , you can tell Apple yourself on <URL> .
iOS 6 combines your phone number with your Apple ID email address , which makes it possible for others to iMessage your phone number and have those Messages sync across your devices . Whereas , previously , with iOS 5 , one had to use Apple ID email addresses only in order for it to sync across devices . First , you need to make sure all your devices are on the same Apple ID . On each iOS device ( iPhone , iPod Touch , iPad , iPad Mini ) : Open Settings.app Go to " Messages " and make sure iMessage is On . If iMessage is on , " Send &amp; Receive " will appear below it . Tap on it . Make note of the Apple ID at the top of the page . Select your phone number and email address ( es ) that you want to sync to that device . On each Mountain Lion Mac : Open Messages Click the " Accounts " tab in the top . Select your iMessage/Apple ID account , and make sure " Enable this account " is checked . Select your phone number and any email address ( es ) that you would like synced . The most important part is that everything is consistent across all the devices . Note that only new iMessages will sync - history will not . If you are still having trouble getting new iMessages to sync across the devices try : Disabling then re-enabling iMessage on each device that is n't being synced to . Delete all your previous conversations : <URL> that they had to delete all of their conversations before things would sync up . Make sure you have your phone number added to your <URL> .
Theres been <URL> online of messages sync being a bit buggy if you do n't set it up exactly right . Heres a few solutions that should get everything syncing nicely for you : Firstly , you need to have all devices set up to the same Apple ID iOS Devices ( iPhone , iPod Touch , iPad ) : Navigate to Settings > Messages . Make sure iMessage is turned on . Tap on Receive At . Check your Apple ID . Make note of this Apple ID . Tap on Caller ID . Use your email address . If you use your phone number ( assuming you &#8217; re on an iPhone ) , then the non phone devices ( including the Mac ) may not ( and probably won &#8217; t ) see the messages . Mac version : Navigate to the Messages app . Go to Preferences > Accounts . Add the same Apple ID as you used on the iOS devices . In a nutshell : everything needs to be consistent . Use the same Apple ID everywhere and an email address as a caller id for best results . If things are still not syncing , try the following . Delete all your previous conversations : <URL> that they had to delete all of their conversations before things would sync up . Make sure you have your phone number added to your <URL> .
<URL> ( free ) I found the link to it on <URL> along with some other info about graphics switching . fast access via menu icon auto/manually switch between discrete and integrated graphics power source-based switching growl support open source
You can use <URL> . It uses an hidden file stored on the iPhone recording an history of location . It has been a little buzz <URL> when it came out on almost all media worldwide . From the description of how to tool is working , it will even work with a backup file of the device . So you can use it on a Mac where the iPhone has been sync ' ed and backed-up . PS : I do n't want to go in the discusion " is it a good thing to track people etc. . . " . Just trying to answer the OP question ... edit Now available for windows on <URL> .
You can double click the Home Button to see recently run apps and choose the previous one . There is not a hardware or software back button as there is on Android phones . Here is an apple article on <URL> .
At first , I thought there would be a straight-forward , albeit hidden , solution . However , after doing some digging , it seems that something that should be a simple swipe or click to do is more complicated than that . This is going to be a little long , but hopefully will be incredibly helpful . I was going to post this earlier today , but did not get the chance to make this whole post until tonight . Boxcar From what I 've seen , <URL> is one of the best ways to get push notifications for tracking hashtag mentions . Both the iOS app and the web client allow a user to add a varying amount of sources to get information from . Twitter , email , RSS feeds , etc. can all be collected into Boxcar and keep track of all of your updates . Boxcar is not made specifically for what you are trying to do but the iOS app has the option of adding filters , where a group of sources can be viewed as one folder and have a key phrase that is picked out from all the sources to create a push alert . What I did in Boxcar that worked was create an RSS feed using Queryfeed.net to generate an RSS feed for the term #hashtag . Queryfeed is extremely useful for this because Queryfeed can create an RSS feed for Twitter , Google + , and Facebook using specific search terms . After adding all the sources that you may want ( Twitter accounts , RSS feeds , etc. ) you can create a filter in the iOS app where you can select which sources you want in the feed , as well as other settings for updates . There is a lot of customization that a Boxcar user can do , especially in tracking certain hashtags or trends . It is a little more work than some may want to put in and it is not problem free ( in my experiments with Boxcar today there was definitely a lag in getting RSS updates at first , and the web client and iOS app are not exactly intuitive in their own unique ways ) but it definitely does allow someone to track and receive alerts for specific hashtags . IFTTT There is another option that I wo n't delve into as much as I did Boxcar simply because in my experience , it is a little more finicky . <URL> is an app that operates in If-Then statements . An example they use on their about page is as follows : if I post a picture to Instagram , then save that photo to Dropbox . " If " s are called triggers ( in this case , the mention of #hashtag on Twitter ) , and " then " s are called actions ( getting an iOS push notification when a tweet is made using #hashtag ) . Combined , triggers and actions make Recipes . A Recipe connects Channels ( the channels you would want to use are Twitter and iOS Notifications ) . In essence , IFTTT links one application 's actions to get a reaction from another . While the user interface is a bit easier than Boxcar , IFTTT Recipes are one trigger , one action . You can not , for example , have a feed like in Boxcar that searches for a specific term across multiple platforms , like finding the use of #hashtag in Facebook as well as Twitter . My ( limited ) personal experience with IFTTT is that occasionally Recipes do n't want to work and I did not have the patience to figure out why . However , IFTTT is supported in Boxcar , so trying both and seeing which works best for you wo n't be much of a hassle .
Maybe you 've already tried this but I 'll suggest it anyway . Open Contacts and tap the arrow in the upper-left corner labelled ' Groups ' if it exists . Ensure you have selected the right group of contacts . If you need to re-synch because the above did not work you could try this : Open the Settings app Open Mail , Contacts , Calendars Select the account causing problems Turn Contacts off and tap Delete From My iPhone if prompted Turn Contacts back on and tap Sync when prompted
The springboard controls the layout of apps on iOS and is confused . Generally , it 's not a deep corruption of the database ( which you fix by restoring the phone , setting up as new and installing things again from scratch ) so here are some things to try : Turn on airplane mode in Settings app ( tells the download process to chill ) Restart the device ( more chilling - starts fresh , frees up RAM ) Connect to iTunes Then you should be able to deselect the problem app ( removing all traces of the attempted download ) and then finally put that app on the device . The airplane mode is the most important thing since the device will try to fix itself and lock iTunes out until it realizes it ca n't . Once you have gotten the stuck app resolved , turn off Airplane mode to resume calls , data and WiFi service . If it does n't resolve , you may have to erase the phone and restore it from a backup or anew .
This was n't intended to be a Jeopardy question , but I think I 've figured it out . On the iPhone , go to Settings " iCloud and set Contacts to Off . On the computer , turn off iCloud contact syncing Connect the iPhone to the computer Click on the iPhone button that appears top right in iTunes Go to Info Check Sync Contacts Select Selected Groups Select the group you want synced .
end question
start question
Export non-Camera Roll Photo Albums to PC ?
You can only transfer photos out of a device that were taken on the device or are otherwise in the Camera Roll . Photos synchronised to a device over iTunes are not able to be synchronised in reverse or otherwise taken from a device .
In a sense the basis of your question is in error . While iMovie is saving videos to your camera roll , this is n't using any extra space on your iPhone . That 's why you get the error you 're getting after deleting the files - because that 's where iMovie is trying to access the video from . Basically , what happens is the video is saved to your camera roll , but project specific info is saved within iMovie . Once you have totally finished a project , you can export/share/save the final version and after that you can delete the video you took from your camera roll ( if you want ) . If you like , you can actually prove this to yourself by doing a simple test : Go to Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud usage In the Storage section , tap on Manage Storage Wait for the list of apps to appear ( this may take a while if you have lots of apps ) . Tap on iMovie ( likely to be in your top 10 ) Take a note of how much space is used up by Documents &amp; Data Now go to your actual iMovie app and take a 30s video Go to your Camera roll and try to email this video to yourself You should get a warning saying that this attachment may be too large to email . This message will give you the size of the video . Take a note of this . Cancel the attempt to email the video . Repeat the first 5 steps . You should note that while your iMovie Documents &amp; Data have grown a little , it will not have grown by anywhere near the size of the actual video itself . The reason this has grown is because it 's storing project info , not because it 's storing the video again . Hopefully this little test will put your mind at ease . Do n't forget to delete your test video .
It depends on how you have defined the shortcut keys . The files responsible for storing these preferences are in the usual place : ~ / Library/Preferences You could simply move the files that store the preferences over to the new Mac : com.apple.symbolichotkeys.plist com.apple.universalaccess.plist com.apple.iWork.Keynote.plist com.apple.iWork.Pages.plist If you were good at parsing JSON or XML , you could do the export to a text file as well using <URL> .
The reason the adapters from apple have such a high price is because the product have a chip inside that will make sure the product keeps working . Cheaper product often do n't have such a chip . It is possible that those products work , but they can stop working at a random time . There are products from other companies that are also supported by apple because they pay a licence to develop such products . Every product that has the " made for iPod , iPad and iPhone " logo on it 's cover are supported by apple .
I highly recommend importing your photos at full resolution , on the off chance that you ever want to crop or make a big print or display on a high res screen in the future . With Apple Photos , you can import at full resolution and it will upload the full image to iCloud . Then , under Preferences : iCloud Photo Library select Optimize Mac Storage . Photos will now automatically switch to thumbnails when you start running low on space , and will automatically download the full-res version whenever you need to edit , view or export an image .
No , not straight from the iPad . The Camera Roll is like a smart folder : it contains all items that were stored as pictures on the iPad from apps . You ca n't move pictures from there to another album , just like you ca n't move songs from the iTunes library to playlist . However , if you import the pictures on your computer , then delete it from the iPad ( you did n't specify your OS there , but assuming Mac OS X : with iPhoto , it simply asks you whether you 'd like to do so after the import is over ) , syncing the pictures that were in the Camera Roll back onto the iPad will make them appear only in the albums you 've configured on your computer , not in the Roll anymore ( since they were not added from the iPad ) .
You can delete it ! Hide works only for moments , so in moments hidden photos wo n't appear
Drag the photos from the album to your photo stream . Careful though ; I did this and ca n't find a way to undo what I 've added to my photo stream !
<URL> is an application which can export WhatsApp chats in several formats , including HTML pages and Word documents with intenal links to attachments ; this allows easy and comfortable reviewing of the exported chats . CopyTrans Contacts is not free , but a limited trial is available ; the trial allows up to 50 actions to be performed , and a full export of a WhatsApp chat counts as a single action ; therefore , the trial version is more than enough for exporting the full contents of one or more chats .
Sure - just make an intelligent playlist with the following criteria : date added in the last week mediatype is music do n't forget the checkmark for refresh automatically at the end
You can use the current version with other hardware , but it is n't trivial . The LED Cinema Display connects to Macs using a Mini DisplayPort , which is n't popular on non-Apple hardware . However , you can get a converter like <URL> that lets you use the monitor with an HDMI connection . So , if the other machine has an HDMI out you could use that . I 'm sure you can also find converters to use with VGA or DVI outputs . The next version of the display will ( almost certainly ) use ThunderBolt instead of Mini DisplayPort . The physical connector is the same , but the data that travels over the cable is very different . These converters may or may not work with ThunderBolt ; we 'll have to wait for the product to come out and for someone to test .
You can not transmit the output of your Windows screen through an iMac display , but there is one way to work that you may find quite appealing : Microsoft Remote Desktop . MS has a remote desktop client application that is a free download from the App Store . On your Windows machine , you change System preferences in Control Panel to enable remote access . In the Remote Desktop app on your iMac , you create a machine profile that specifies the Windows computer name or IP address , your account username and your password . It supports fullscreen mode , so your Windows login will be plenty big on your 27 " display . I use the application daily to remotely administer Windows desktops and servers all over the country . From the comfort of my MacBook .
I 'm fairly certain the green light is hard-wired to the camera , there 's no way to activate the camera without activating the light , precisely for privacy reasons . If you 're really concerned about it , you can always just use a piece of electrical tape to cover the camera ( or fold a piece of cardboard over the top of the lid for a non-sticky solution ) . Frankly I would n't worry too much about the risk of malware . That particular piece of malware ( <URL> ) was contained fairly quickly by Apple , it 's very unlikely that you could be infected by it now , unless you maintain an unpatched system . There have been a few OS X security issues lately ( such as <URL> ) , and they get a lot of press , but the actual amount of harmful software out there for a Mac is extremely low . My advice is to keep your system up to date and avoid downloading files from questionable sources . But other than that , do n't worry too much , unless you have a highly sensitive job ( in which case there should be other people whose job it is to worry about it ) .
Taken from the privacy file displayed when turning Siri on - off . You may choose to turn off Siri or Dictation at any time . To turn off Siri , open Settings on your iOS device , tap General , tap Siri , and slide the Siri switch to " off " . To turn off Dictation , open Settings , tap General , tap Keyboard , and slide the Enable Dictation switch to " off " . If you turn off both Siri and Dictation , Apple will delete your User Data , as well as your recent voice input data . Older voice input data that has been disassociated from you may be retained for a period of time to generally improve Siri , Dictation and dictation functionality in other Apple products and services . This voice input data may include audio files and transcripts of what you said , related diagnostic data , such as hardware and operating system specifications and performance statistics , and the approximate location of your device at the time the request was made .
It 's quite easy to see indeed . If the two images match ( left ) , all photos were uploaded to the Photo Stream . If they do n't match ( right ) , some pictures have n't uploaded yet . NB : Photo Stream will only work over Wi-Fi , syncing only the latest 1,000 pictures taken in the last 30 days .
Have you tried <URL> ? They say that it lets you easily share your mouse and keyboard between multiple computers on your desktop . There are some <URL> which show how it works .
<URL> is a great option . It 's fast too . Connect iphone , copy the files to your desired directory , disconnect . Connect other iphone , copy files to desired location on iphone . Boom ! Drag n drop ease . Free download , and cheap too . edit : it allows you to see entire disk media folder :)
On iOS 7 Open the Photos App and make sure you are in the " Photos " section from the three icons at the bottom of the screen ; Look at the top of the screen and make sure the view is " Moments ; " Now you can tap individual thumbnails one at a time to select them , or you can tap the word " Select " that appears at the top of each grouping to select an entire grouping . On iOS 6 Go to Settings → General → Usage → Photos &amp; Camera ; Swipe on the " Camera Roll " entry ; A " Delete " button appears . This solution does not work on iOS 7 ( last tested on iOS 7.0.4 ) . It is probably a bug . Any iOS , but using a computer If you have iOS 7 , you can use Image Capture on your Mac to delete photos from the iPhone without importing them : Plug the iPhone to your Mac with the iPhone cable ; Quit iPhoto if it launches automatically ; Launch Image Capture ; Select the photos you want to delete ; Click the red icon to delete the photos . <URL> <URL>
I updated my answer because all of it was wrong : You will want to use an applescript for your preference setups . Here is the code for some of them and screenshots of the actual plist so you get an idea of the options possible . IF this does not apply straight away , you might need to restart the computer . Do n't forget to save applescript as an Application . NOT script Trackpad/Mouse In here , it varies . It is either for mouse , for bluetooth mouse , and for trackpad The example above changes right click to be left click as well Keyboard Unfortunately , I could not find a preference for keyboard . I will keep on searching though . Dock This was just an example . Switch autohide with whatever option and YES with value or boolean . Booleans are YES and NO ( unlike in scripts " true " " false " ) I put a picture on the end so you can see all the possible options for all the options . Disable Dashboard I also could not find how to . Though it is presumably in Dock options : Mouse : Bluetooth Mouse
Here is the visual comparison of Apple TRRS plug and a standard TRS plug . On the top you can see a 4-pin headset connector . A headset connector needs to be using the same TRRS standard , or it will not function properly if at all . On the bottom you can see a 3-pin headphone connector . Any headphone connector will work fine . Standard 3.5 mm jack stereo headphones have a 3-conductor configuration of TRS ( Tip , Ring , Sleeve ) . The pinout for these connectiors is : Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground . Connectors for headphones with a mic have an additional ring which results in a 4-conductor TRRS configuration ( Tip , Ring , Ring , Sleeve ) . There have been different TRRS standards : The original OMTP configuration , which was created by Nokia and has a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Mic , Ground . AHJ ( American Headset Jack ) with a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground , Mic . CTIA , named after <URL> , which replaced AHJ and has the same pinout . CTIA jacks have improved compatibility to support not only AHJ but also OMTP . CTIA is by default <URL> device manufacturers . Source : <URL> Wikipedia has a short <URL> for which device uses which standard . At last a few points to note : Plugging an OMTP headset into an AHJ jack , and vice versa , will result in the audio-out being inaudible or very quiet . Converters to switch between the two types of headsets are readily <URL> , but do add extra bulk , and may not work reliably with remote control functionality . Apple uses a CTIA/AHJ connector arrangement , but uses a non-standard microphone and volume control signaling method . Simple commands like Play/Pause and Skip however should work across modern mobile devices .
end question
start question
What can we do now that Facebook iPad app crashes on launch after update ?
Sadly , unless you have a computer with that accounts signed version of the old Facebook app , you ca n't get the old version from the iTunes Store . Deleting the app should have removed all preferences , so you can only make sure the crashes are being reported to Apple and hope the app is popular enough to get a bug fix rapidly . To restore the old app from a computer , be sure to delete the faulty app before connecting the iPad to the computer . Then add the Facebook app from the computer being careful to not update it there .
It 's doable with a reboot proxy , i.e. you 'd rename , e.g. , and then create a symlink to the bash script that has the command ( s ) you what to execute before the reboot and then lastly it executes . I actually have this setup on my Mac running OS X 10.8.5 and it works well . I 'm trapping both and commands . Which are what 's run when clicking the Apple menu > Reboot ... and or Shut Down ... commands . Note : It 's best to have a second bash script to toggle the state of the original file and the proxy bash script as it has to be set back before OS X updates are done that will touch the file ( s ) . This is the code in my bash script that has a symbolic link for both the and commands after the original were renamed with a extension . Feel free to adapt it for your use . Contents of Let me add that from a security standpoint there are those that would argue this is a bad thing to do and I 'd say to some extent that 's true under the right conditions however since I 'm the only one that has ever and will ever touch my Mac and I have several layers of security running beyond the built-ins , I personally have no issue using such a method .
<URL> say to keep it for troubleshooting and/or if you need to send it in for warranty service : <URL> " 2x1GB is worth so little so you 're better off keeping it for troubleshooting purposes . " <URL> " I would hold on to the memory ; if you ever need to take it in for service , it 's better to have the original memory in it . " " Keep them for warranty " <URL> " Apple guidelines are that if you do have 3rd party hardware installed , they wo n't service it . "
This is addressed several times on the Apple Forums . It is a common problem . I will list a few of the answers that have worked for others . Before starting , do the obligatory iPad reboot . 1 ) From the iPad desktop click the stalled app . It will either restart the update process or report the " update failed " . If it fails you will then be able to restart the update from within iPads App updater . 2 ) If you have a desktop Mac , from iTunes go to menu Store > Check for Available Downloads . This should download the updated App to your iTunes . Then re-sync with your iPad . 3 ) Delete the app from your iPad then reinstall . I found that option 1 worked flawlessly for me .
At the very least , make sure you sync your old one to your Mac before you sell it . When you sync , it should copy purchased items from your iPod to your Mac . If you have time , back up your iPod : Connect it to iTunes , then right-click ( or control-click ) and select Back Up . You can then restore your new iPod from that backup . This will restore your mail accounts , sync settings and app data to the new iPod . It will not restore the correct locations of your apps or home screen folder contents .
After being told on the Apple Discussion boards that this ca n't be done , I found a solution . I re-entered all the original log in information into the account details . It took a bit to get them to stick , because iPad kept trying to verify the account , which it could n't do , because the legacy server was n't responding , but I finally got it . Once the I had the original credentials entered , all the original Inbox and Sent emails were back . One important key : Although I did n't change my email address , the new server did require a different username syntax . The old username was just " name " while the new username was " name@mydomain.com " . That little change is what caused iPad to decide it was an entirely different account .
Yes - if you trust Apple to never lose the photos , you can delete all your local copies . Pay attention to which devices have full resolution images and which have " optimized " settings . Also , I 've been doing this for iTunes Match for some time . I have only lost a few dozen songs in two years of trusting the cloud . For that reason , I now set alarms every 6 months to download a local copy of all the songs from iCloud and back that up to an external HD . I 'll be doing the same with my iCloud photo library to be sure I never lose all the photos . I would add , that if the thought of losing a dozen photos or <URL> if your account should get messed up for engineering to work out the problem is n't your cup of tea , you might keep your originals on hard drives and in filesystems you know you have the tools to work with directly .
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
This question was answered by updating to iOS 7.1 . I 've since turned all the features of the phone back on ( e.g. , background app refresh , notifications , use my location , all the processes that I tuned off trying to troubleshoot ) and my phone just lasted three days with normal use .
The built-in application is called Grab . You can find it under the Utilities folder in Applications . You can also use keyboard shortcuts to take screen shots . Here 's a quick guide from <URL> : In Mac OS X , you can use simple keyboard shortcuts to do all sorts of things , including capturing images of what 's on your Mac screen . For example , you can take a screen shot of your entire screen by holding down the Command and Shift keys and pressing a 3 . If you hold down the Command and Shift keys and press 4 , Mac OS X turns the cursor into crosshairs you can use to select whatever portion of your display you 'd like to capture in a screen shot . If you immediately hit the Spacebar after typing Command-Shift-4 , Mac OS X replaces those crosshairs with a little camera . Using the camera , you can take a screen shot of the Dock , the entire menu bar , a single open menu , the desktop , or any open window .
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
I am assuming this process will work out to be the same as the current situation with iPhones : Backup your iPad using iTunes . Plug new iPad into same computer . Restore new iPad from old iPad backup . When this is done with an iPhone , the new iPhone will be configured exactly as the old one - save games , email apps , photos , everything is transfered . What happens is actually that the backup contains all app data + configuration . The rest is basically a list of stuff that should be synced from your computer to the device ( e.g. music , photos , apps ) .
The predominant theory as to why the current Facebook app for iOS is so sluggish is that the app : suffers from its heavy use of JavaScript in a UIWebView component which does not currently benefit from the " Nitro " Javascript engine which is available to Mobile Safari is poorly designed The app uses very little native code , and thus most of your interaction takes place within a UIWebView displaying HTML and executing Javascript . Essentially , anywhere where an app is displaying something that looks and acts like it 's " embedding a web browser " , that 's a UIWebView . In very simple terms , the Nitro Javascript engine makes Javascript " faster " . iOS 4.3 brought the Nitro engine to Mobile Safari , and IOS 5 brought the Nitro engine to web shortcuts launched from the home screen . This is one potential reason why your use of Facebook within Mobile Safari seems so much more responsive . As of iOS 5.1 , UIWebView does not benefit from the Nitro Javascript engine . This issue has been recently discussed on the Mobtest blog , " <URL> " with a number of comments in <URL> . Within the current app , Facebook has recently increased their promotion of additional iOS apps : <URL> <URL> <URL> These apps -- ranging from " old news " to " brand new " -- seem to do a good job of focusing on doing a single Facebook-related task well , in some cases adding support for something which the general Facebook iOS app does not even support .
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
System Integrity Protection in 10.11 can be disabled , though it 's not something you should do lightly . You can disable SIP entirely by doing the following : Reboot your mac Hold ⌘ R during reboot From the Utilities menu , run Terminal Enter the following command Alternatively you can re-enable SIP while still allowing to work by also running the following : Note , that when doing so you 'll get the following warning : This is an unsupported configuration , likely to break in the future and leave your machine in an unknown state . Once you reboot , will work as it did in Yosemite .
there is a commandline app called that you have to run as root . for example will give you the list of apps that are set to update . You can then run This wo n't let you install a new application that you have n't already downloaded though .
I need the bundle identifier to be the same as the previous version of the app . I do n't have that same identifier . The identifier is transferred along with the app , so once the app is transferred you continue to use the old identifier which has been transferred along with it . Therefore you are free to submit updates as if you were submitting updates to the old app . Do I need to create a new provisioning profile ? Yes you will . You can do this from the Member Centre or Xcode as you would have done for the app on the old account .
Your computer iTunes is waiting for the iPhone to " fix itself " and clean up from the interrupted sync . The mobile iTunes database ( and I 'm sure several others ) will need to be rebuilt to clean up after an interrupted sync . You can see/test this by disconnecting your iOS device in the middle of podcast or music syncing . If you then immediately start up iTunes for iOS - you will get an Updating LIbrary screen while it itdbprepserver does its work . You 'll get a " verifying message " until these post-sync and interrupted-sync cleanup activities finish . Once iTunes on the desktop has " verified " the phone is ready to start another sync , it commences with the normal backup and sync activities . My timing shows the interrupted recovery to take twice the time of a normal sync completion but usually less than a minute either way .
Back up your iPad with iTunes . Back up that hard drive . Unplug that backup and store it far away from any internet connection . If you do update Sykpe by mistake , restore the iPad from the backup . It wo n't keep Skype from updating , but it will preserve your ability to undo the update .
Facebook updated its chat system , breaking Adium 's support . You can still connect to Facebook but you need to setup the account as a Jabber account . Your username will be . The server is . The port is and you should not use SSL .
end question
start question
Why is java always running ?
Try typing this into terminal : This should output details about which jar file is open in the runtime . Alternatively , to find out which applications are using the Java Runtime select java in the activity monitor and clicking on the blue i icon . Click and see if it gives you a clue which application launched the java environment . You 'd be surprised which applications depend on Java ! You could also try going into the Java System Preference , clicking the Java Tab and choosing . You 'll see a list of registered Java applications that might help you find the culprit .
In OSX 10.9 and above this is all in Activity Monitor app under the Energy tab . It shows your battery life over the last 12 hours , and while it was plugged in is highlighted in green . It also shows you what apps are sucking on your battery and how much they are draining at the moment , and on average .
exFAT is a file system optimized for flash drives , meaning storage devices without moving parts where seek times are constant . It sounds like you 're using it for a mechanical hard drive -- which is what 's causing the poor performance that you 're experiencing . You should reformat the drive to HFS + or FAT32 and only use exFAT for solid-state drives . ref : <URL>
Can you try downloading again or ensure that the about box says " v18 .0 " ? v18 should fix this bug ( we have n't pushed the auto-update due to some unresolved issues with hybrid graphics cards . )
<URL> is a relational database engine . You might have heard of MySQL ? It does a similar sort of job . Apple , for reasons unscrutable and strange , decided that they wanted to bundle PostgreSQL in some Mac OS X versions as a pre-installed application . Consequently it comes with some versions of Mac OS X. Additionally , some 3rd party software will bundle PostgreSQL because it uses it to store and manage its data . It wo n't always be obvious what the program is . PostgreSQL generally uses little CPU , RAM or disk I/O unless it 's actually being used for serious work , so it 's fairly safe to ignore it . If you 're really determined to get rid of it ( say , you think it might be stopping your non-SSD-based mac from spinning down its hard drive ) then stop it and leave it installed but not running . If nothing breaks , disable it in launchd , but do not uninstall it . That way it has no effect but is easily restored if you discover there was a problem after all . ( Note that PostgreSQL databases are n't compatible across versions . If you delete an installed copy of 8.2 then decide you wanted that data after all , you would have to install a compatible build of 8.2 to read the data ; installing the latest 9.3 release , or even 8.4 , would not work ) .
TotalTerminal might be a better option . TotalTerminal has a visor mode that allows it to stay on top of all the other windows . You can choose to place it anywhere on the desktop , of course , and choose to have it slide out from one of those positions when you use CTRL - ~ key combo or anything else you 've set up . Plus it 's free .
The answer is no , Safari does not provide any built-in functionality or shortcut ( to the non-existing functionality ) to restore the last closed tab . The only functionality that Safari currently offers is : Reopen last closed window Undo Close Tab ( as part of the Undo event chain ) The first does just that , re-opens the last closed window , including all the tabs that were open when it closed . The second works as you already know , it only works if it 's the last thing you did , or you have to undo other things which is the caveat you noted above . Looking at Safari Extensions , there are a few Tab managers around , however none of them specifically note their support for Tab Undo 's except <URL> and this functionality was removed from the product for Safari 5 ; as the developer notes that Safari 5 now provides this as part of the Undo chain Developing a solution for this while it 's not trivial , is n't something that is going to be impossible as Apple have done most of the hard work . :D Safari provides event propagation to Safari Extensions , and the particular one you would be interested in is <URL> . Of course determining a method of distinguishing between the CloseEvent 's for Windows ( with each Tab receiving its own CloseEvent ) and singular Tab CloseEvents ... well there 's the hard work .
The feature I 'm after is called : Instant Hotspot It seems like an iPhone 4S can not do this feature . From <URL> , it 's an iPhone 5 or newer . <URL> . Sad.Panda :(
Well after an hour on the phone with Apple support , 2 phone restores and 1 iOS upgrade , we finally got to the bottom of this . Turns out the feature ( to disable uploading of burst photos to PhotoStream ) DOES work as intended . It 's the wording of the feature description that is more than a little confusing . The text below the feature states : Only favorite Burst Photos will be uploaded to your Photo Stream The trouble is , to me ( and to the techs at Apple that I spoke to ) , that sounds like no part of a burst photo will be uploaded until you have chosen one of the photos in the burst , as a favorite . This is not so . What it actually means is that the entire burst will not be uploaded . But if you have Photo Stream turned on , a single photo from the burst WILL be uploaded . And unfortunately , it 's not the first frame . I 'm actually not sure what criteria iOS uses to decide which photo to upload , but it seems to be the first photo that it thinks is " the best " somehow . So , the bottom line is that Photo Stream is an all-or-nothing proposition . Either every photo you take ( including a single frame from any burst photos ) will be uploaded , or nothing will be uploaded . There is no way to selectively upload photos on a case-by-case basis , unless you either leave Photo Stream off and manually share photos you want in your stream every time , or turn Photo Stream off &amp; on between each photo you do n't want to upload ... but then you lose and have to re-download all your photostream content each time . Not a real great solution either way . I feel Apple should re-word the description of this feature to make it more clear what the expected behavior actually is , but I wo n't hold my breath on that .
Eventually I found the basic solution : For Java applications in general you can specify that they are ' headless ' , by adding the option to your java application . ( also posted to stackoverflow ) .
You can add the location into your executable path . Step 1 : Use an editor to open ~ / . profile Step 2 : Add the actual path into the file . For example , I added / Users/work/documents / fun/scripts into it and my ~ / . profile looks like Step 3 : Restart terminal , and issue which command . You should see the path of your program , and should be able to run the program regardless of your location . Or another way , move the program into the existing executable path . To see existing executable path .
The following conditions must be met in order for dictation to work : You <URL> . You should n't be using audio on your device ( e.g. if you are on a FaceTime call , the button will not appear . ) You must be focused in an text field which is formatted for normal text ( more about this below . ) Developers ( and even <URL> ) can choose which keyboard layout will be visible to the user , via the <URL> property . <URL> of several different keyboard layouts and what they look like on an iPhone ( without dictation ) . The dictation button is available in the following keyboard types : Standard ( UIKeyboardTypeASCIICapable ) But is not available in the following : Telephone ( UIKeyboardTypePhonePad ) URL ( UIKeyboardTypeURL ) Email ( UIKeyboardTypeEmailAddress ) Zipcode ( UIKeyboardTypeNumberPad )
It 's a boring answer , but it looks like Afloat has been updated to support Lion : <URL>
The journaled file system practically eliminates the chances that the filesystem itself will be in an inconsistent state after the next reboot . But " consistent " is not the same as " correct " . Before journaling , the filesystem structures themselves could become damaged which could lead to more corruption occurring after the next boot . So journaling limits the damage to whatever files were being written at the time of the crash . If a file was being written at the time of a crash , the odds of its contents being incorrect are about 100 % . Exactly what manner of incorrectness would depend on exactly how it was being written at the time . If data was simply being appended , then the last few blocks will probably be truncated off when the journal is replayed . But if bits of data were being modified throughout the file ( such as in a database store ) , its likely to be in a very inconsistent state . Applications which write files in that way sometimes have their own consistency checks for that purpose . But most files in a typical OS X system get written sequentially . In fact , many programs write a temporary file and do n't move it in to replace the old version until the new version has been committed to disk . This ensures that even a forced shutdown in the middle of writing a file only loses the new version , but preserves the old one . Bottom line : something bad will happen to any data being written at the time of a crash , but how bad depends on the application .
The magnet can save your computer . Let 's suppose it 's on a table connected to AC . If someone pull the cable with his foot by just walking by , the MacBook wo n't fall on the floor , the magsafe will just pop .
The 64-bit version of iTunes you downloaded contains 64-bit drivers for Windows 7 , however the application itself is still a 32-bit application . You should see your iTunes installed in ( default ) C : \ Program Files ( x86 ) \ and the iPod helper files installed in C : \ Program Files .
Apple computers have long been considered " virus free " although Apple stopped pushing this as a selling point earlier this year in the wake of several Apple targeted viruses . The truth is that a virus can be programmed for mac much like a software application can , the reason for the lack if infections on mac was merely the same as the reason for lack of some apps in the past , the relative unpopularity vs windows machines meant it was less practical to program for mac . With macs now being more popular than ever before , Apple now has to implement strict measures to hold on to their clean , virus free image , hence Gatekeeper being added to Mountain Lion .
One way to do this is to install a boot loader such as <URL> . This will present you with a menu similar to the following when you start up your computer :
You have two main options . Depending on what you want exactly and how much of your current user information/settings you want to migrate . Manually This is the method I prefer . i believe that when doing a clean install the point is to get rid of all the extra junk that is just sitting on your computer . To do this you need to manually backup your stuff data . Just go through all your folders and copy the stuff to an external HD . ( Desktop , Documents , Downloads , Movies , Music , Pictures , Public , Sites , Bookmarks , Adress Book , Mail , etc ) . You leave all your settings/preferences behind . This makes for a real clean install . Using backup utility I would suggest using <URL> . It 's free and works on Tiger . With this clone your current hard drive and after doing a clean install Lion will ask you if you want to import your stuff from a previous installation and you can select the clone you just made . Keep in mind that this will also copy back all the preferences/settings and junk you might have accumulated . Thus in my perspective defeating the point of a clean install . Combination This is probably the best option . Make a clone with CCC and then instead of having Lion automatically bring back your data , do it yourself manually . This way you will have everything saved from the clone and you will be able to bring back only the important data you want and not any overhead .
160 degrees Fahrenheit , if it is CPU temperature , is normal for MBP . MBPs are designed to run pretty hot , with the aluminum case as the main heatsink the casing gets uncomfortably hot sometimes . If you want to remedy the problem : use a laptop stand ( I use Belkin Cushtops , they are really comfortable ) , put your laptop on steady , heat-transducing surface ( human skin , blankets or soft chairs are bad -- wooden/plastic/metallic tables are good ) , open up the casing and clean the dust ( can make it ~ 10 degrees Celcius cooler ) or , use less video - or CPU-intensive application =)
end question
start question
Why do Apple 's latest MacBook Pros cap the RAM limit at 8GB ?
The limitation imposed is based on the chipsets used on the computers motherboard . For example , the noted Apple maximums you mentioned for the MacBook Pro and the Mac Pro , are smaller than the maximums that those machines can address in practice . The MacBook Pro tested maximum is 16 GB according to <URL> . And as for the Mac Pro its maximum is 128 GB according to <URL> . As noted on Intel 's Specs , the CPU supports a different maximum than the chipset on the motherboard does . The <URL> supports up to 288 GB . And as for the <URL> it supports up to 32 GB . So these limitations come from engineering decisions made by Apple based on what kinds of chipsets are selected to be installed on the motherboard and what those chips support is what enfoces the maximum amount of RAM that a particular Mac can address at or below what the CPU can actually address . As for why Apple under rates their maximum numbers for RAM on some Macs , thats for Apple to know and for us to wonder . However , admittedly it is a nice practice to <URL> for whatever reason Apple has . Although , the Mac Pro supports more RAM than Mac OS X can address , according to OWC 's testing on Mac Pros , <URL> , but other 64-bit operating system can get to the full 128GB .
Go for it ! You 'll lose the jail break ( duh ! ) but it 'll restore to a normal state like any other iPhone .
My new Mac Pro has 6 " USB " busses , 12Mb/s , and two " USB High Speed " busses . 480 Mb/s . One of the " USB " busses shows Bluetooth on it , but none of the others seem to be in use . The external connectors belong to the two " High Speed " busses . Buss 0xfd has one of the front and two of the back connectors . Buss 0xfa has one of the front and one of the back connectors .
The primary cons for the MacBook Pro are : heavier and more bulky compared to the Air noticeably slower HDD versus SSD at the same price point only has a 1280x800 screen resolution Note : but is <URL> than the one in the Air , with a more accurate color gamut . Things that sold me on the MacBook Pro over the 13 " MacBook Air : the MacBook Pro is more future-proof and upgradeable and offers more value for the money in my opinion . Primarily Upgradeable RAM , the Pro Comes with 4 GB and so does the MacBook Air , but the key point is that I can just order it with the 4 GB for the Pro , knowing that I will be able to upgrade to 8 GB or even 16 GB at market rate for RAM whenever I want to . I can not do that with an Air , you either order the 4 GB and shorten the usable life of your computer or pay upfront to upgrade to at most 8 GB at a premium price ( thats shoddy and I would like to avoid that ) . Secondly the MacBook Pro as of Mid-2012 version still has a standard form factor drive bay where you can purchase and install 3rd party 2.5 " SATA Laptop Drives of your choice in SSD or standard hard disk drives . And then the bonus features in order of importance to me , all of which without the need for external dongles and adapters : Gigabit Ethernet Firewire 800 port SuperDrive ( optical drive ) Standard Audio headphone jack that can do both output or input over analog or digital cables Has n't moved to the new MagSafe 2 adapter format So the flexibility and value of the MacBook Pro sold me on it , its really sad to note that all MacBooks will probably be Airs ( like the MacBook Pro Retina ) soon enough and this value option will be nothing but a thing of the past , so enjoy it while it lasts .
I found the answer on AskDifferent 's sister site Superuser.com : <URL> In Macintosh HD / Library / Preferences / Audio there are two audio setting files . Delete them . Set your sound to the desired setting . Restart . This solved my issue .
With regards to your question , there does n't seem to be a way to mount it at a specific point , hover to mount it at boot , have you looked at the <URL> application ? Make RAM Disk is an application that provides an easy way to create , format , and mount a RAM disk in one shot . If you add the application to your Login Items it will automatically create the RAM disk at each boot . PS : Tested this on OSX Lion without any issues . For completeness sake the following is from the Readme File : How do I use it ? Just run it . By default , it creates a 64-MiB RAM disk named " RAM Disk " . Can I have it create a RAM disk on startup/login ? Yes . Add it to your Login Items in the Accounts pane of System Preferences . How do I get rid of the RAM disk ? Click on the Eject ( ⏏ ) button next to its name in the Finder 's sidebar . Alternatively , use Disk Utility ( in / Applications/Utilities ) to eject it . I want to create a bigger or smaller RAM disk or to create it with a different name . How do I do that ? Hold down the Option key while launching Make RAM Disk ; it will present a window wherein you can change the size or name of the volume . If the " Save settings for next time " checkbox is checked , the settings you enter here will be saved ( obviously ) ; if not , they are forgotten just before quitting . Remember : the Option key for the Options window . Can I change the options without actually creating a RAM disk ? Yes . As long as the box is checked , the options will be saved , whether you create a RAM disk or not .
Yes . In almost all cases , OS X software is hardware-agnostic ( as long as the hardware comes from Apple ) .
From <URL> : Mac to Mac screen sharing , using the username/password , is done in a secure manner . Using a VNC client and the " VNC viewers may control screen with password " is not secure .
The cones in almost any speaker will break down over time . Various environmental factors will determine how long a speaker lasts , but overdriving the element can definitely have an adverse effect . It 's impossible to provide any precise data but in short , you 're probably shortening the life of the speakers ( by an indeterminate amount of time ) by running them at maximum volume but , provided you 're not hearing any distortion from the speakers , you 're not damaging them by doing so .
The thing about these limits is that the carriers and iPhone models are all different . For instance , the iPhone 5 should theoretically be able to handle up to 14 connections , but both AT&amp;T and Verizon limits it to 5 . As far as I have understood , it is hardware-limited , and therefore it is not affected by iOS version . I have started on a list which anyone may suggest an edit to if they come up with new information . Feel free to comment as well . iPhone 3GS supports up to two peers combined through USB and Bluetooth-tethering . <URL> iPhone 4 : <URL> , <URL> AT&amp;T - version supports up to three Wi-Fi peers , three via Bluetooth , and one USB peer . Verizon-version supports up to five Wi-Fi peers , three via Bluetooth , and one USB peer . iPhone 4S supports up to five Wi-Fi peers . Unconfirmed iPhone 5 supports up to five Wi-Fi peers . ( AT&amp;T and Verizon confirmed <URL> ) iPad 3rd gen is currently unknown . iPad mini is currently unknown . iPad 4th gen is currently unknown . Please note that Apple have not disclosed any of these limitations , they <URL> : The maximum number of supported connections may vary depending on your carrier or iPhone model . Apple have also stated in <URL> about all iPhone-versions and the third-gen iPad that : Depending on your wireless carrier and , the maximum number of Wi-Fi connections may be limited to three at one time .
I 've had bad RAM that still allowed the machine to boot - a stick of memory in my Mac Pro apparently failed gracefully overnight . The first step would be to check system profiler to see if the memory is being recognized . If indeed it is , there 's a version of MemTest for OS X : <URL>
A similar question to this is noted here <URL> They recommend using the ulimit command , but they were unable to successfully limit the amount to what they desired . I think the problem that they ran into was the fact that the option being set - u or - v was not accounting for the memory paging system , eg you can only allocate X amount of space for you process in real RAM , but we can page you out to virtual memory all day long . Note that this may be Dangerous disabling Virtual Memory , it could result in your Mac just locking up , etc when it runs of of RAM . Try running ulimit with arguments - l , - m , or - v however as noted in the ulimit man page it up to the OS if it will pay attention to these settings or not as noted . ulimit : ulimit [ - SHacdefilmnpqrstuvx ] [ limit ] Modify shell resource limits . Provides control over the resources available to the shell and processes it creates , on systems that allow such control . Ca n't really find any definite source that confirms if OS X ignores ulimit or not , but after the referenced ulimit fail If you can get ulimit to work for your needs by itself then give it a go , if not a combination of ulimit and or disabling virtual memory may be able to let you set up that 3 GB limit on select processes . FYI here is a good link for more information on <URL>
This is n't the answer you want but it 's the answer you should listen to : iMessage is n't designed for sending huge long messages . Write an email instead . But if you really want an answer the max characters is 18996 but the catch is that iMessage on OSX ( 10.10.5 ) wo n't let you paste in a single block of text that big . Try breaking up and pasting in smaller 1000 character chunks if you must use this platform to send large amounts of text .
Apparently they are compatible . I just tried it and the machine is zipping along now . It seems that the difference between the modules is latency and caching , which are close enough that the RAM will still work just fine .
Yes - the good splitters mix the pins correctly to provide mono microphone and stereo output in the same jack . You can of course get breakout boxes like the Griffin iMic and have the benefit of a cleaner D/A circuit at the expense of carrying another device that 's plugged into USB . Just like everything - some of the expensive products are over priced and some of the cheap ones are worthless . I 'd go with a name brand - especially if their products are carried on the Apple Online or stocked in the retail stores . Lion does add a control where you can select the speaker icon in the menu and switch from input and output . As to the rationale - unless an engineer from Apple steps up , we 'll have to speculate . Here are the reasons to have fewer ports . ( They 're not al good , but they are reasons ) Simplicity - the iPhone / iPad / iPod touch all have one port . Many people do n't need or want the confusion of knowing which port they plugged in to their mac . Just as you really appreciate having two , many appreciate having only one stereo jack . Internal simplicity - one less switch , one less moving part , several solder points . Internal spacing is far more important than external space . If you look at <URL> - you will see there actually is n't room on the logic board for another connector . The design would have to sacrifice an USB port or the SD card slot to make room for a second package without reducing the space for the battery . These macs are packed incredibly tightly and despite the clean appearance of excess external space , inside they are packed like proverbial sardines in a can . This lack of space likely cuts features from the smaller macs like a redundant mini headphone port .
The flash storage makes a huge difference ( a fresh system boots in about 15 seconds , apps will start instantly etc. ) , and the new MBA does not need to throttle the CPU when it gets hot . So you will probably notice a big improvement . See <URL> , for example .
All white Macbooks can certainly be upgraded to 4 and - in some cases - 6GB of RAM . Depending upon your model , you should check <URL> and go from there . I believe other vendors ( Crucial , Newegg , etc. ) will have similar pages with similar info ( and similar prices ) . I 've brought different memory upgrades from OWC and never had a single failure so far . I have an old Macbook 4.1 White Core 2 Duo 2.4 and can go up to 6GB . So best thing to do is check your exact Macbook model and see what they offer .
After looking through the updates to Mail in Mavericks , it looks like I have bad news . There does not appear to be any way to disable Mail in Mavericks from storing local copies of messages ( of course , you can save some space by preventing Mavericks from storing local copies of attachments ) . If you are hard-pressed for space to the point where a few GB of local mail storage is of particular concern , then your best bet is likely either to use an email service which supports automatic message archiving ( so that you can search through an archive which is stored on the server , thus freeing space on your machine that the archived messages would have taken ) or routinely remove messages from your inbox and store them elsewhere ( e.g. , on a NAS ) . As it seems your goal is to have your messages readily accessible for search and other purposes , the first option is probably more likely to suit your needs . One possible way to set up the second option ( i.e. , routinely moving messages out of your inbox ) might work well for you . What you 'll want to do is create a rule which automatically forwards your email to a second account ( what email service you use for this account is entirely up to you ) and then deletes the forwarded email from your inbox ( you could have this done automatically once the messages is read/a certain numbers of days old or via a keyboard shortcut , whichever is preferable ) . This way , your local storage will remain small ( only unread messages or recent messages , depending upon how you configure your rule ) , but the external account will have a complete archive of your messages . You can then access this archive in your browser without impacting available local free space .
I am not aware of any manual that contains this information but here is a breakdown , since this is one of the big reasons I got a MacBook originally . The mini display port allows you to add an additional monitor to your MacBook . Support for this is built into the OS directly so you simply connect your external monitor using the correct MD/VGA or MD/HDMI or MD/DVI connector if the monitor does not have a display port and then you can configure how the displays work . This is done under the option in . From the screen shot below you can see I am running a second monitor on my MacBook Pro at the moment and I have set the second monitor to be to the left of the main one by simply dragging it 's rectangle to where I want it . You can also move the menu to a different screen by grabbing the white strip on the primary screen and dragging it to another screen you want it on . Each display can have it 's own separate resolution and even separate backgrounds . The relevant preference panes will automatically show a dialogue on each screen if it supports multiple displays , for example the will show on both screens . You can also choose whether you want to mirror the display or use it as a second screen . In mirror mode it simply mirrors everything on your main display .
To enable a retina rendered Eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist using your favorite text editor . Just above Place this : Then , make a copy of the app so that OSX will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
end question
start question
Taking care of the hard drive in my MacBook ?
Assuming your computer has a magnetic drive ( and not a SSD ) , when you close the lid , it will take a few seconds for the computer to write some things to the hard-drive ; even if it looks fast , it really takes a few secs of " background activity " . It could be 1 sec , but it 's there . So as a general rule , it 's always good to gently close the lid ( hitting the lid with the keyboard can cause damage to the screen and the hard-drive if it 's too strong ) , and give the computer a couple of seconds to process the sleep state . Once you 're sure that the box is sleeping , you can pack it up and carry it , always remembering that the Hard-Drive is a mechanical device and as such , it 's very fragile ( compared to other pieces ) . This does n't mean that you have to treat your box as if it were <URL> , but mechanical drives and hits are not friends . With that said , I 've seen laptops fall from 1 meter ( tables ) to the floor and work for years without a hard drive failure , and on the other hand , small hits against a table ( by raising the laptop 1 cm and letting it fall onto a table ) rendered hard drives inoperative . So as you can see the drives tend to be more fragile than not , even when you can never be sure . I remember about 10 years ago , we were on vacations and for some reason , one of the guys found a box of <URL> and we started a fight . Note : They hit really hard and I have pictures of a candy tatooed in my back in red . All in all , one of these candies bounced and hit a guy 's laptop while he was creating a playlist in WinAmp ( yeah , we were that old ) . The computer crashed ( Windows XP ) and the hard drive never worked again . The candy story was just a way to illustrate that you can never be sure about hard drives . Regarding a car : unless you 're going to go to the <URL> , there should n't be a problem . Remember , vibrations and hits may hurt your hard drive , keep it as quiet as possible . they guy whose laptop broke still hates us . I have an old macbook that I carry everywhere , on and off and I drop in bed , I move it , I put things on top of it ( books , etc ) . and it still works ...
I have heard good things about the <URL> . It provides a mounting bracket for whatever hard drive or SSD you want to put in there . <URL> shows how to install it in a Mid-2010 MBP , which is close in design to the Unibody MacBook you have . Instructions according to the guy in the video : Remove the bottom panel Disconnect and remove the Wi-Fi/Bluetooth antenna . Disconnect optical drive and put the connector onto the Optibay Put your hard drive into the optibay Follow the steps in reverse to reassemble your computer . The dangerous parts are when you pop up the delicate connectors with , say , an iPod opening tool . So the Wi-Fi may not work afterwards , and you would be on your own since Apple does n't support modifications . But overall , it is n't so bad . It looks like an easy fix .
Yes this does matter depending on the sata speed of your hdd , ssd and the laptop . My 2011 MacBook Pro supports 6 Gb/s to the original hdd and 3 to the Optical drive . My ssd supports 6 Gb/s and my original hdd supports 3 gb/s . Obviously , I did not put the ssd in the optical bay caddy ( which would have been less work ) . Instead , I moved the original hdd to the caddy an placed the ssd where the hdd originally used to be . This way , my ssd runs at 6gb/s and my hdd ( still ) at 3 Gb/s . Good luck !
I did the same to one of my old macs and opted for Crucial Memory and a Western Digital hard drive . Their still going strong and I 've had absolutely no problems ( and the WD drive is really fast )
It seems you have another system - in that you are able to post the question . If it is a mac , you can start the problem system in <URL> ( if it has FireWire ) , connect it to the working system with a firewire cable and you should be able to change the name remotely . If you can start in single-user mode <URL> that may allow you to bypass the problem . If you start in verbose-mode , ( same link as above ) , you may be able to see the problem . If you can start from the Lion recovery disk , or a DVD , that will also allow you to change the drive name . Finally , if you do get the system restarted , I urge you to check it through Disk Utility ( applications > utilities ) . I hope this helps .
Assuming your computer has a magnetic drive ( and not a SSD ) , when you close the lid , it will take a few seconds for the computer to write some things to the hard-drive ; even if it looks fast , it really takes a few secs of " background activity " . It could be 1 sec , but it 's there . So as a general rule , it 's always good to gently close the lid ( hitting the lid with the keyboard can cause damage to the screen and the hard-drive if it 's too strong ) , and give the computer a couple of seconds to process the sleep state . Once you 're sure that the box is sleeping , you can pack it up and carry it , always remembering that the Hard-Drive is a mechanical device and as such , it 's very fragile ( compared to other pieces ) . This does n't mean that you have to treat your box as if it were <URL> , but mechanical drives and hits are not friends . With that said , I 've seen laptops fall from 1 meter ( tables ) to the floor and work for years without a hard drive failure , and on the other hand , small hits against a table ( by raising the laptop 1 cm and letting it fall onto a table ) rendered hard drives inoperative . So as you can see the drives tend to be more fragile than not , even when you can never be sure . I remember about 10 years ago , we were on vacations and for some reason , one of the guys found a box of <URL> and we started a fight . Note : They hit really hard and I have pictures of a candy tatooed in my back in red . All in all , one of these candies bounced and hit a guy 's laptop while he was creating a playlist in WinAmp ( yeah , we were that old ) . The computer crashed ( Windows XP ) and the hard drive never worked again . The candy story was just a way to illustrate that you can never be sure about hard drives . Regarding a car : unless you 're going to go to the <URL> , there should n't be a problem . Remember , vibrations and hits may hurt your hard drive , keep it as quiet as possible . they guy whose laptop broke still hates us . I have an old macbook that I carry everywhere , on and off and I drop in bed , I move it , I put things on top of it ( books , etc ) . and it still works ...
I 've done a remote wipe on a MacBook Pro with an SSD running Mountain Lion because I was n't sure how else to securely wipe the SSD . So I can answer some of your questions . To start with , Mat Honan was wrong when he said that the purpose of the PIN was so that " the process can be reversed . " It is to prevent the thief from using the computer . I believe the thinking is that if the computer has to be taken to Apple to be unlocked , then it is much more likely that a stolen computer would be recovered . Yes , when you remotely wipe the computer it does a secure wipe . Apple even warns you that it could take as long as a day . However , if your drive was encrypted with FileVault 2 , then it is not necessary to erase the disk . It is sufficient to securely erase the encryption key ( s ) stored on the disk , so that 's what they do . It 's very quick and as secure as the underlying encryption system is , which for now is very secure . You can not recover the drive with the recovery key once the encryption key ( s ) have been erased . Before starting to wipe the disk , though , Apple installs some kind of lock on the system that prevents you from booting it up from the internal or an external drive . I do n't know the details of how this works , I only know that I did not find an obvious way around it . EDIT I did this a second time and this time I wrote down the steps . After the laptop received the remote wipe instruction it emitted 2 short beeps and then froze , displaying the spinner ( not a beach ball ) , and then rebooted After reboot , it displayed a Grey screen with the message " Enter your system lock PIN code to unlock this Mac " and options to sleep , restart , or shut down . I entered the PIN code pretty much right away After a brief delay the laptop rebooted into the Recovery partition and asked about installing a system ( either a new system via the internet or an old system via a Time Machine backup or other computer to clone ) I then rebooted the computer into Target Disk mode and examined the drive from another computer . The drive is no longer seen as an encrypted drive and I could find no signs of useable data on the drive , though to be fair I did not try anything too fancy . I have faith that the encryption key was wiped and that all I would find is encrypted data for which I no longer had the key . Now back to our original story ... Below is from memory , so might be slightly wrong in some details . You can read another person 's account of the process from <URL> . ( They were able to recover files from their unencrypted mechanical drive , but I believe it was because they entered the passcode and interrupted the wipe before it finished . ) I think that after the remote wipe started and the lock screen came up on the MacBook Pro I did not wait very long for it to finish wiping the drive and entered the PIN to see what I could see on the drive . ( I never saw anything on the drive , but I also did not take it out of the computer and send it to DriveSavers for them to check out . ) I do n't recall exactly how I got to powering down the machine post-wipe . Anyway , after the wipe and power-down , I attached an external Mountain Lion Install drive and powered up the computer . I got a flashing folder with a question mark ( meaning it can not find a boot drive ) . I rebooted , holding down the option key to get a choice of boot disks . I had a choice between Macintosh HD ( the internal drive ) and the external drive . I picked the external drive and again got the flashing folder with a question mark . I rebooted again , holding down the option key again , but this time chose " Macintosh HD " . Then I was presented with a screen to enter the unlock PIN . Which I did . I was then back to the screen where I could choose a boot drive , but this time the internal drive was labeled " 10.8 Recovery HD " or something like that . I again chose the external drive and it booted fine . I was then able to reinstall the OS and all was normal from there . I did n't see about trying to put the computer into target disk mode but Apple is pretty savvy about encryption and security so I expect that the PIN code lock is in the firmware and the computer just wo n't do anything until it 's unlocked . I also suspect that Apple can unlock the computer with some secret procedure , but that would only restore the computer to normal operation : whatever was on the disk would still be gone to the extent the computer was able to erase it before you got it to Apple . ( The MacObserver article states that they were not able to put the computer into target disk mode until they unlocked it when it was just remote locked . <URL> stated in a follow-up to his original article about getting hacked that the Apple Genius he eventually got to help him " had been able to reset the firmware password " even though he " could n't crack the PIN " . ) What makes the encrypted drives so secure is that all you need to erase is probably just one file system block containing the encryption key ( s ) , so it '
It looks like your hidden file in your Desktop is corrupted , which will cause this issue for sure . You can restore this by using Terminal . Open Terminal.app Type Type Now , if you see a list of all your Desktop items , you 're in the right place . And make sure you check whether or not the file is there Now , type When you 're prompted hit ' y ' Log out and in again Mac OS X should have rebuild this file and your icons should be ok . Let me know if you have any issues with the steps , I 'm glad to help you .
It seems the theoretical limit is <URL> hard links on an HFS + volume . Indirect node files have a special identifying number called a link reference . The link reference is unique among indirect node files on a given volume . The link reference is not related to catalog node IDs . When a new indirect node file is created , it is assigned a new link reference randomly chosen from the range 100 to 1073741923 . The limit for links to a single file is <URL> , the maximum number of a UInt32 , which is about four times larger than the volume limit , which you 'll exhaust first . linkCount For indirect node files , this field contains the number of hard links that point at this indirect node file . As a practical matter , this design is quite strange , and suffers from performance issues . The more hard links you have on a volume , the slower it will be to create a new one , as the system must first find an unused link reference number , then insert it into the metadata directory . Then that metadata directory must be searched to dereference a hard link . You may begin seeing performance problems with only a few thousand links ; your great-grandchildren wo n't live long enough to create a billion if you start today . In practice you 'll notice this most often when <URL> , which use hard links extensively .
Yes - Apple provides an internal SATA drive with standard connectors but custom firmware . <URL> if you take the screen off carefully you can replace it , you may have to buy a bracket to secure it SSD that do n't match the existing 2.5 inch drive mounting screws . Looking at the steps it does n't seem to be to complicated to do but with the 5k iMac you need to be extremely careful since you have to remove the speakers . I would paste in the step by step images however there a load of them and you would be better off going to the site and taking a look at the images . Also make sure you have the right screw drivers since its a t20 screw you would need a T20 * 100m screw driver .
The Apple provided Disk Utility ( and shell command ) will allow you full RAID control over internal and external drives . You do have to erase the drives to add the RAID capability , but then you can join those drives into RAID . That is the only potential drawback to implementing RAID storage on the Mac . Drive spanning , JBOD , striping and mirroring are all possible with Mac OS X software RAID . Lion brings the concept of physical and logical volumes to the OS , but RAID on Snow Leopard is also very fully functional . If you brake a mirrored RAID set - the drives are valid when connected to the same mac and portable to any other mac . You are not locked into a proprietary standard and do n't need any additional software for any of this functionality . and are free sync tools - very scriptable , powerful , and free .
I definitely would not use electrical tape . Honestly , if for some reason you do not have the plastic tab that came on the HDD , then you can go without it when you replace it with the SSD . The opening is large enough you can get a finger between the SSD and the side rails , should you ever need to replace it . You can see <URL> for another opinion on the matter .
OS X does not offer this functionality . smcFanControl and the iStat widgets are the typical go-to choices for this issue . I personally use smcFanControl . It gives me both the temperature and the ability to monitor fan operation .
What is the benefit of using flash memory in the Macbook Air ? How does the use flash memory compare to SSDs ? What are the benefits ? The Macbook Air uses an SSD . Apple markets it as merely flash memory because in the consumer market there are only two storage types - flash and hard drives . The typical consumer Apple is aiming for does not know what SSD is , nor do they care . But they do know what a " flash drive " is , and due to aggressive marketing they believe it 's better than the alternative . It 's a custom form-factor SSD , but it uses a SATA flash controller , and the Air reads it just as if it were any other SATA drive . OS X does , however , understand it as an SSD and treats it slightly differently from a hard drive in order to use it to its full potential , but in every other respect it 's just a custom form factor SSD . The reason Apple uses a custom form factor SSD is for size , weight , and - most important to Apple - cost . They have both Toshiba and Samsung on the line for supplying these SSDs . When they get a poor price from one , they go to the other . They need this because the SSD is one of the few things in the Air that requires custom PCB layout and comes from multiple suppliers . The pinouts and circuitry are different between the samsung and toshiba flash controllers , so they ca n't build them into the main PCB as Apple would prefer , without locking them into one vendor or the other . The flash market is so volatile right now that they ca n't lock themselves into just one supplier , especially since some 80 % of Apple 's revenue comes from products that use copious amounts of flash . If they thought they could get a better price manufacturing their own flash , they 'd have their own plant - or ten . Instead it 's cheaper to play the major flash producers against each other to get the lowest cost . So : The Storage in the Air is a SATA interfaced SSD It 's not on the main PCB to give them the ability to use different parts from different suppliers It 's not a 2.5 " , 1.8 " , or SATA slim interface because they needed it to be smaller - they designed their own interface , but it 's still SATA , just with a different low insertion force connector They are n't using the latest and greatest chipsets due to cost and power consumption They are n't using hard drives due to size , weight , and power consumption
Allow me to recommend you the <URL> ones . You have an " extreme RE " ( which I believe you wo n't need ) and the Pro , which is arguably one of the fastest and most secure drives so far . I 'm sure you can google for comparisons with other drives but I 've installed a various numbers of SSDs ( albeit not only in Macbooks ) and the OWC ones are what I 've chosen for me . Jeff Atwood himself made a comparison ( but he didnt include the OWC at the time ) , which you can find <URL> . Do n't forget to read through the comments , as there 's value in there too . I 'd say that excluding the OWC ( which I prefer ) , the Crucial C300 should be the next in line .
Boot Camp does n't require you to reformat your drive . HFS + partitions can be live-resized by the Boot Camp Assistant or the Disk Utility without going through the trouble of erasing everything . No file on your Mac OS partition will be affected . There is , however , the case where you 've had your computer for long and Mac OS has written files all across your drive . In this case , you will need to defragment your drive , in order to put all your files in a nice contiguous space on your hard drive , so that all the remaining space is contiguous too and a partition can be made there . As far as I know , <URL> can do this for about $ 15 . ( Disclaimer : I never did it and ca n't guarantee it will work . But it should . Can someone confirm ? ) The other way , if you have an external drive , is to copy all your files to this external drive using a software like <URL> ( free ) , reformat your drive , then copy them all back to your drive . Everything should be like before and you 'll have no hassle except the time required to copy back and forth ( your programs and your serial numbers and the such will be intact ) .
You should definitely try resetting the SMC , since it 's a known fix for fan issues . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
You can not do this on an active partition . You need to boot into Recovery Mode which will let you delete the unwanted partition and resize the main partition . Select the whole drive then the Partition tab . <URL> PS Make sure you have a Time Machine backup before doing anything .
What would be the purpose of disk encryption if the key can get recovered from the encrypted disk itself ? Unless you find it in the Keychain ( and I 'm not even sure it 's there in the first place ) or somewhere else where you may have written it down , you are out of luck .
This will work with the right toolkit ( see links below ) since the system software ( Mac OS X ) is almost hardware-agnostic , especially if you use a newer system than the original one . Actually some of the different MacBook Pro Mid 2010 models were sold with the same hard disks ( the 500 GB serial ATA ) . The only thing you may have to adjust is the screen resolution . Hard Disk Replacement/Swap : <URL> <URL> But why do n't you just use a Firewire 800 cable , start the MacBook Pro 15 " in Firewire Target disk mode and connect it to the MacBook Pro 17 " ? You may even start your MacBook Pro 17 " from the Target mode MacBook Pro 15 " by choosing the latter in System Preferences - > Startvolume . Update : Hard Disk Replacement/Swap : <URL> The standard of the Serial ATA interface changed from 2.0 ( MacBookPro6 ,1 ) to 3.0 ( MacBookPro8 ,2 ) . If the MacBookPro8 ,2 contains a SATA II hard drive it will work , if it contains a SATA III hard drive it should work ( depends on the hd ) .
end question
start question
How to limit search only to file name instead the content of files ?
When you 're in the Finder , hit Command + F. Notice under the Search : bar there 's some options . Use the pulldown to select Name . Then set the next to Matches , Contains ... and type in your search string .
You can always use the terminal command with the option : [ Option - P will ] Overwrite regular files before deleting them . Files are overwritten three times , first with the byte pattern 0xff , then 0x00 , and then 0xff again , before they are deleted . If you 're not handy with the Terminal , just : Open the Terminal.app ( Found in / Applications/Utilities ) . Type and drag the folder which contains the file you want to delete , to the terminal window . Type and hit Enter
Turns out it needs to be on the internet initially , in order to set up Home Sharing . But once Home Sharing is set up , it can access content on your Mac as long as your Mac is on the same local network , and has iTunes running .
The <URL> is really useful for these sorts of things .
In Lion and Snow Leopard , you can create a network from the AirPort menu and choose whatever SSID you please . The same dialog should be available from the network preference pane in System Preferences if you prefer that avenue .
<URL> lets you assign arbitrary tap/swipe/click gestures to arbitrary commands . It supports Lion .
You can press ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + . while the dialog is open , which will toggle show/hide hidden files . In OSX 10.9 and up ( Mavericks , Yosemite , ... ) you need to be in the List View of Finder .
Search by Kind One of the most useful ways to narrow down a search is by using the keyword . This allows you to restrict your list of results to a certain file format . For instance , if you type , Spotlight will pull up only PDF files containing the words " time " and " machine " . You can also limit your search to e-mail messages , music files , System Preferences , applications , and more . While the original Spotlight recognized only a limited number of file types , the Leopard version can look for files created by specific applications , as well as certain file formats . Searching for or will find files in one of those formats , and searching for or will show only documents created in one of those programs . For a list of useful keywords , see " My Kind of Keyword . " But remember , for the keywords to work , you must have the appropriate categories enabled in Spotlight 's preferences . you can get more info <URL> or <URL> .
This code will do it for you : Note that stripping the last three will get rid of the extension . If that is n't what you want to happen , let me know in a comment .
Even easier than that , on Mac OS X you have what is called a " me " card . Which is a special vcard that is tied to your account name and profile picture . You can open up address book and edit your name and it will mirror that in iChat and everything else .
You can create two folder actions , one for images : one for videos : Both should be setup to receive files from Downloads folder . The first step filters images and videos files . The second step moves those files in the appropriate folder . Be sure that folder action is attached to your directory ( right click on directory , ) . To let Automator wait for the download to complete , you can add a step , before the step , similar to this :
<URL> is a great app for doing all of the command-line stuff necessary to enable Continuity , and it claims to be able to work with USB dongles .
Open up a terminal window : ⌘ space and type Terminal . Hit enter when its highlighted . When you get to the terminal prompt , type the following command : You wo n't get a response at the command line , but once you restart Safari it will no longer open them in the browser . To take it a step further while you 're there , you can keep it from opening them once they are downloaded with this one : This last command achieves what the other answer suggests .
You can add the System files and File visibility attributes to the filter bar : Files that start with a period are still excluded though . This makes Finder show hidden files : <URL> includes system files by default , but it does n't include hidden files unless you specify kMDItemFSInvisible = 1 .
<URL> Put something -- a contact , a photo , a video , a file -- on the Mover table , connect two iOS or Mac OS X thingies to the same Wi-Fi network and slide away . It 's that simple , really . ( Yep , you can also use Bluetooth between iPhones , iPod touches and iPads , if you 're on the go ! ) ∞ labs , the developer of Mover , shut down a while ago and the app is no longer available .
The easiest way to format any disk is to use Disk Utility ( in ) . Just start the application , select the drive to be formatted in the left column , make double sure you 've selected the right one and select the file system type , partition sizes etc. on the right hand side .
I found an app ( paid ) that will do the above : <URL> . Disclaimer : I have n't tried it yet .
Does n't seem to be possible . Even the limited Help for Grab.app suggests using Preview to convert away from TIFF . I presume you need " Timed Screen Captures " otherwise you would use the keyboard shortcuts ? Note that you can take the grab , then copy the image without saving ( CMD+A , CMD+C ) , then ALT+TAB to Preview.app , then CMD+N , then save . Not very elegant . You could also just deal with Grab.app saving as TIFF , but then set up an Automator action that watches a folder and converts TIFF to whatever you want each time a TIFF shows up in the folder . This ought to be fairly easy and transparent way to use Grab.app and get the file formats of your choice .
Since Mail does not have a predefined filter ( in Smart Mailboxes ) to get the 50 last received messages , I can imagine you could achieve something like this in an AppleScript . The AppleScript should : get every message in Inbox sort the list by date select all but the most recent 50 ones delete selected Then , create a Mail rule that will be triggered whenever a new email arrives ( e.g. you could trigger it on the condition that Recipient contains an " @ " or that Sender is not empty ) , and have the rule execute your AppleScript . To get you started on how to write an AppleScript that processes Mail messages , see the script you can find in :
Your brother 's Apple ID probably still has his phone number associated with it for iMessage . The smoothest way to deal with this is to have him disassociate his phone number from his Apple ID . Apple has a self-service web site that explains how to accomplish this : <URL> If that does n't work , this older KB article has a helpful section <URL> . If he has other Apple devices ( Mac or iPad ) that are using his Apple ID , your iMessages may be being delivered there . If none of those devices are available when you send him an iMessage , your phone will eventually offer you the opportunity to resend the message as an SMS or MMS . Unfortunately you ca n't disable iMessage on a per-contact basis .
end question
start question
How can I change my desktop background every time I log in ?
First you select the folder where your custom background images are in the left section , then you just select and choose in the dropdown .
This behaviour happens beacuse the dock just launches an app . Finder is classified as an app , so it will open/show the app window , you will need to open a new window within the app . You can use the keyboard short cut CMD + N , and if you are not in the app press CMD + Tab to open it first . You could possibly try using <URL> , which makes custom keystrokes , so you could assign O to opening a new finder window
Switch to Fullscreen mode , there you have a black background color . And then your background is black :
You can directly copy to/from the desktop to/from fullscreen mode using drag-and-drop . You need to go via the desktop " preview " window of mission control ( at the top ) : Here 's a <URL> demonstration .
I found the answer on AskDifferent 's sister site Superuser.com : <URL> In Macintosh HD / Library / Preferences / Audio there are two audio setting files . Delete them . Set your sound to the desired setting . Restart . This solved my issue .
Yes , this can be done without OnyX . First head to System Preferences > Desktop &amp; Screen Saver > Screen Saver and select one of the screen savers included in OS X , or a third party screen saver that you 've previously installed . Whichever one you choose , just make sure it 's selected as the active screen saver , even if you have it set to never start in the " Start After " duration drop-down menu . Next , launch Terminal ( located in the Applications > Utilities folder ) , copy and paste the following command , and press the Return key on your keyboard to execute it : Source : <URL>
You can go to Settings > Notifications > Messages and change the Repeat Alert option to Never . This will stop it from bugging you twice !
macs do have hibernate and sleep , the default on newer machines is a combination . the closing of the lid saves to disk for hibernate but on wakeup if the battery has not run out it wakes from sleep . <URL> You can change it from the command line Or via <URL> <URL>
<URL> explains it very nice . Basically you are modifying a " User Template " file , which is used to create a fresh new user every time you log in as a Guest . If you 're not quite sure on how to do it just ask for help . :)
Out of the box there is no themeing capability in Mac OS X , you can however modify some of the colours used by Mac OS X in the Appearance Preference Pane in System Preferences . If you 're serious about themeing however there are 3rd party applications you can get to help with this : <URL> - manages and changes icons . <URL> - does most everything else . If you 're interested in available themes that work with ThemePark check out <URL> Otherwise a fairly good resource is the forum at <URL> .
In column view in the Finder , you can resize columns by positioning the mouse pointer over over the thin line that separates column panes , and dragging it to the left to make it narrower or to the right to make it wider . To make the Finder remember the new width , <URL> while dragging the pane separator to the desired width . The <URL> alludes to the fact that holding down option resizes " all columns at once " but does not explicitly say that this makes the change persistent .
I have spent the better part of 6 hours researching this exact question , it appears that the answer is NO . I miss the mobileMe gallery more and more .
The solution is called . It can remember your passphrase for the session . You run the agent with ( might be even running in your session already , so check before using ) and add the key to the agent using : it will prompt you for a passphrase . The further connections using this key will not prompt you for the passphrase .
You would need to change sounds in : There are : and ( self explanatory ) . I recomend to make backup of those files before swap .
Yes you can , with <URL> . It 's a free app that sits in your menu bar ( you can hide it if you want ) . It works all the way back to OS X Tiger .
Unfortunately I 'm unaware of any way to do this without a workaround . Here it is : Go to preferences - > signatures and create one that uses the font color you want to use . You have to select the text , right-click , go under font and pick the color from there ( at least on my Lion machine ) Set that signature as your default When you compose a new message , put your cursor on the beginning of the line that the signature is on , hit enter a few times , and when you start typing your message it will be in that font/color . There will be a blank line at the top that is formatted black , which you can backspace to delete , just make sure you 've started typing something first or it will set it back to black .
I do n't believe Google has a public bug tracker . However , there is an unofficial one available at <URL> . I did some extra looking , and there does n't seem to be anything like Apple 's own <URL> or the <URL> . Thankfully , Gmail.app has a built-in mechanism to send feedback with . Starting with your inbox view , open the menu by tapping on the menu icon in the top left . Then : This will provide you with a form to send feedback to Google .
When you go to shutdown/restart , unclick the check box to disable the resume feature , which is likely what is opening all these windows ( that were present upon shutdown ) . If this does n't do it , check that these applications are not in your user start up list .
You can use VNC to remotely control your Mac . There 's instructions around here to turn on the built-in OS X VNC server ( it 's pretty straightforward ) , and a <URL> ( I linked to a Google search because I do n't know a particular good viewer for Windows because I do n't use VNC on Windows ) .
Not so far . You can do decide whether to turn on the sound or not for particular app ( if it enables user to turn off the notification sound ) . But you can not change the notification sound globally or per-app ( not at least in iOS 5 ) .
end question
start question
How to hide " Siri app suggestions " in iOS ?
Go to Settings > General > Spotlight Search and you 'll see a switch for Siri Suggestions at the top of the screen . <URL>
I do believe that you are attempting to add Free apps to your wishlist . When you try this you do not get the open to add to your wishlist , just as you never could gift a free app . Try again on a paid app and you should see the options Add to Wish List and Gift appear before Copy Link .
Go to the photo in Photos , tap Edit , then tap the Crop button to show the Rotate button . Tapping the Crop button is what 's new here as in iOS 7 this was n't required .
Check this question for the sentence structure you need to use to achieve this : <URL> Add " list name " reminder " new item " on " date and time " Example : " Add activities reminder basketball practice on friday at 2pm . "
The command-line way : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) and type replacing with the POSIX-style path to the folder you want to hide ( for example , a folder on your desktop called test would be ) . To unhide it , type . The freeware way : I have n't used it , but I 've seen the app <URL> , by Altomac .
All the photos that are taken in a burst sequence share a " BurstUUID " in their EXIF data . This is how applications know they are related . For example I just took a burst of images , installed <URL> and ran against the directory with the burst images . This is the output . For another application on Windows ( or any other platform ) to recognise and show these images as a group it will need to be rewritten to recognise this new EXIF tag .
No , not without jailbreaking . If you 're willing to jailbreak your phone , there is a tweak called <URL> ( no idea how they came up with the name ) which lets you select which direction the app switcher goes in . ( Note : if you have updated to iOS 9.1 , there 's no jailbreak utility currently available for it and there is <URL> . )
I use Hazel with an applescript to keep my filename extensions hidden . Hazel is just a way to make sure that anytime I create a new file , the applescript gets run on it . The applescript is pretty easy -- you can see all three lines of it in the screenshot below . I also like to set the color labels by file type , thus the selection of only PDFs and the red color labels . You can skip both of those if you like . Just to be clear , you do n't need to use Hazel . You could use folder actions or an automator workflow to initiate the applescript on the files you want to change .
Within Xcode you can specify that an app is iPad only under the " Deployment Info " section of the target 's General settings . Beyond that the way to limit an app to certain devices is by specifying features in the Info.plist under the key . You can see the options listed on Apple 's developer website here : <URL> Unfortunately there does not seem to be an option that limits an app to iPad Pro devices only . You can specify " arm64 " which will limit your app to iPad mini second generation and above , iPad Airs and iPad Pro devices . But I ca n't see an option that says devices that support Apple Pencil only .
Yes , in iOS 8 you can set a limit to the time period of the messages . So , not an actual amount - like the 200 messages on your Android - but you can limit it through Settings > Messages > Keep Messages menu option where you 'll see the following flavors : Forever 1 Year 30 Days
There are two , both from Facebook . It 's available in the Messages section of <URL> , as well as the standalone <URL> . The standalone app uses a denser interface , and would be an improvement if you were going to use this heavily , but the section of the complete app is n't much worse .
You ca n't . Must contact Apple Support to do it . How can I update or change my iOS Developer Program account information ? Please <URL> for assistance with : Address changes Contact information updates Company/Organization name updates or changes <URL>
This should work with iOS 7 and above . Go to the Settings app and tap the Cellular icon at the bottom of the screen . Anything beyond that , you will have to check your phone bill . <URL>
Are you just using the dictation feature ( the microphone button on the keyboard ) , or sending email or texts/iMessages through Siri ( holding down the home button , telling Siri to send a message ... ) ? If you 're using the Siri function , when it prompts you if you want to send it , you can ask Siri to " read it to me " or " review it " and it will be read back to you . If you 're just using the dictation ( which technically is n't Siri ) , your best option is to use VoiceOver , as <URL> .
My idea , you could try to run a server on it for back-up purposes or website hosting maybe ? I do n't know if you 're interested in that part at all . . If it 's a big power waste , you 'd better get rid of it and buy a replacement instead of wasting the cash on power :) Trashing it is the last option left IMO .
It is currently not possible to save or share a slideshow . The only output is to the device screen itself or over AirPlay .
Yes this really is one long command -- make sure to run it all . Replace with actual website , and with the relevant version of the simulator that you 're using .
You could edit out the birthdate information from those contacts you do not want to see in the Birthdays calendar . Another way to accomplish this would be by manually adding the birthdays you do want to see to a new or existing calendar and then disable the Birthdays subscription .
App Store is divided by countries it is available in and each country 's App Store is a separate entity . For an end-user ( me , you , anyone who buys apps basically ) there is no cross-over between them . If you 're from Finland you 're most likely using Finnish App Store ( possibly with interface in English ) . Only users of the same store will see the reviews posted in it . Reviews are not shared between individual ( country ) stores so it is perfectly fine for reviews to be in country 's native language .
In a word ? Nope . The app store provides a couple of facilities for getting applications , but all of them are for the most recent versions . There 's a chance that you may be able to use un-delete software on your iTunes App directory and recover it , if the data space has not already been overwritten . Otherwise , you must preserve IPA 's that iTunes throws into the Trash , else they 're pretty much gone forever . Additionally , to the best of my knowledge , IPA binaries are unique on a downloaded system , for DRM purposes , so I believe you can not simply obtain an archived version from a friend , and send it back into iTunes .
end question
start question
Do multiple AirPort Expresses keep iTunes audio synchronized ?
According to Wikipedia : The AirTunes part of the AirPlay protocol stack uses UDP for streaming audio and is based on the RTSP network control protocol . [ 12 ] The streams are encrypted with AES , requiring the receiver to have access to the appropriate private key to decrypt the streams . [ 13 ] The AirPort Express ' streaming media capabilities use Apple 's Remote Audio Output Protocol ( RAOP ) , a proprietary variant of RTSP/RTP . Using WDS-bridging , [ 14 ] the AirPort Express can allow AirPlay functionality ( as well as Internet access , file and print sharing , etc. ) across a larger distance in a mixed environment of wired and up to 10 wireless clients . See the page <URL> . Notice the part where it says that UDP is used for streaming audio . UDP does no error correction . When using TCP ( most of the time ) , when I send a packet from A to B , I send it , I get confirmation , then I send the next packet . When I get confirmation , part of that confirmation is an error check code . If it does n't match with the error check code that I generated when I first sent the packet , I know the data has been malformed in some way before reaching B , and therefore I send it again . If I have to send that packet a bunch of times before it is successfully read on the other side , that would " sound like " something unexpected . Lag is a bit different -- lag happens when there 's a delay of some sort , or the line is saturated and it actually takes ( some arbitrary amount of ) time for the signal to get there . That could happen under either model . The difference is , with UDP , if packets get lost or corrupt , it does n't matter . iTunes will send whatever data is required to represent the song now . And now , and now . If you miss it or it gets malformed , oh well . It will keep sending only what is pertinent now . Long story short : you should be fine . Any glitches will probably be short and sweet . And , out of sync ? Probably not discernible to any human .
Apple used <URL> as their marketing name for 802.11 Wi-Fi . Due to legal reasons it was called AirMac in Japan . AirPort was used for all hardware products ( access points , routers , cards ) . It was also used everywhere in Mac OS X in the user interface . For a couple of years now the use of the word AirPort is restricted to hardware products ( e.g. AirPort Express ) . OS X and iOS use Wi-Fi ( or local variants like WLAN for German ) to refer to 802.11 networking in the user interface ( menu bar and system settings ) . See these screenshots with the <URL> word use . AiPort in old version os OS X <URL> Wi-Fi in current version of OS X in Japanese , English , German . Screenshots from the <URL> <URL> found . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Your computer iTunes is waiting for the iPhone to " fix itself " and clean up from the interrupted sync . The mobile iTunes database ( and I 'm sure several others ) will need to be rebuilt to clean up after an interrupted sync . You can see/test this by disconnecting your iOS device in the middle of podcast or music syncing . If you then immediately start up iTunes for iOS - you will get an Updating LIbrary screen while it itdbprepserver does its work . You 'll get a " verifying message " until these post-sync and interrupted-sync cleanup activities finish . Once iTunes on the desktop has " verified " the phone is ready to start another sync , it commences with the normal backup and sync activities . My timing shows the interrupted recovery to take twice the time of a normal sync completion but usually less than a minute either way .
It 's less a bug than getting the people to send you an iMessage to your email and not your phone number . The database actually has two accounts for you and since they are not merged / unified on the server end , you will end up with two accounts / two endpoints and messages to one are not combined with messages to the other . iMessage in iOS6 does a much better job of unifying several emails and phone numbers , but in 5.0.1 there is no unity . I still like to have one address for my " caller ID " so that contacts tend to reply to my preferred account .
Try the steps detailed at this URL : <URL> Find your Mac 's MAC address for the Wi-Fi network interface . See How to Find Your Mac 's MAC Address for instructions . Open the AirPort Utility application . ( It 's in Applications → Utilities . ) The window shown below appears . Click the AirPort Extreme 's icon . The status pop-up window appears . Click Edit . The settings window appears . Select the Network tab . The window shown below appears . Click the + button under the DHCP Reservations field . The window shown below appears . Enter a descriptive name for your Mac in the Description field . From the Reserve Address By menu , select MAC Address . Enter your Mac 's MAC address in the MAC Address field . Enter the static IP address you want to assign to your computer . For more information , see step 9 in How to Set a Static IP Address in Mac OS X. Click Save . Click Update . The AirPort will restart to apply the changes .
I dug around for quite a long time to find this answer and finally found out that under the info box , there is a drop-down menu in the Info box under Info > Options : And the drop-down menu allows you to choose where it will show up : All that converting was done for nothing ...
Every Mac with two headphone sized jacks has one for in and one for out as the hardware is specialized for one direction . You do n't need to repair the computer to remedy this if you are OK with an external DAC such as the <URL> . The Mid 2009 MBP have identical physical connectors soldered on to the logic board , so even if the jack parts themselves are physically identical , they are wired to different parts of the sound in/out circuitry for both analog and digital and replacing that mounted part that would require a high level of soldering skill . The cheapest repair for this issue is the flat rate repair from Apple but even that is pricey when you could use tape or some other physical aid to keep the headphone in the jack as the metal latch no longer holds the pin properly .
It 's not been shown ( yet ) how to hack apart the Time Machine process on Lion sufficient to do what you ask ( skip the sparse storage format ) . I too was bitten by early network based sparse bundles . Since mid 10.6 ( maybe 10.6.5 ) - I 've been unable to break Time Capsule based despite repeated tests to be really mean . This includes pulling the power of the capsule in the middle of backups repeatedly to regain confidence . This is n't something I 'd do on my main backup , but the Snow Leopard implementation is now rock solid in my eyes . Realize that by having a less reliable network , this sparse format is actually more reliable overall and has checks and balances to make sure you get a good backup even when bad things happen .
<URL> including <URL> is a collection of useful scripts that you can run from the Finder or the command line . Of course they all use iTunes to process data , but you might find it more convenient than having to use iTunes ' GUI and mouse commands to convert files .
The " recording " label usually appears when you press ' q ' key to record a macro . It is not recording what you are typing , it is recording a command sequence to be re-used for later use . See : <URL>
See <URL> . Quote : Turn Airport Off via Command Line Turn Airport On via Command Line You wo n't see any confirmation in the Terminal that the command succeeded or failed , but if you watch the AirPort menu icon you will see the bars disappear indicating the wireless interface is turned off , or reappear indicating that wireless is activated again . NOTE : In OS X Lion , use the hardware name above instead of , e.g. .
There are two modifier keys that allow you to view grouped info for multiple files ( note that the names are derived from what the Finder 's menu item changes into when the relevant modifier key is pressed ) : ⌥ + ⌘ + I ( alt/option + cmd + I ) : This opens the Inspector , an independent window that tracks info for whatever the selected files in the focused Finder window are . The Inspector updates as you change selection ( or change which Finder window is focused ) , and remains until it is closed . ^ + ⌘ + I ( control + cmd + I ) : This opens a Summary Info window , which aggregates info on multiple selected items . Unlike the Inspector , however , it is static and always displays info on whatever items were selected when it was opened , regardless of changes to which items are selected in the Finder , or which Finder window has focus .
There is a second clipboard in OS X , called the kill-ring . Press Control ^ + K to " kill " ( copy ) the rest of the current line to the kill-ring , and Control ^ + Y to " yank " ( paste ) it .
Your apps by default are downloaded to the location ' C : \ Users \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Media \ Mobile Applications ' . Take a copy of the apps from this location and back it up on an external hard drive , flash drive , DVD or a different machine . When you re-install or move to a new machine , simply bring the apps back to the new PC and drag-drop them on to the apps section of iTunes .
When you go to Gmail , you should now see a ' notes ' label in gmail . This will hold your notes , but you can not edit them in gmail .
The article is about reverse engineering the <URL> part of the Airport Express device . The AirPlay feature allows iTunes to <URL> to the unit and you can connect a set of speakers or an amplifier to it via the 3.5 mm stereo jack . However the protocol ( and the key ) AirPlay uses is not documented , and if I want to implement the same feature on other hardware ( for example make my linux gateway computer have the same functionality as an AirPlay device ) , I have to reverse engineer the protocol ( the language both devices speak over the network ) and re-implement it . The interesting part is that AirPlay uses <URL> to encrypt the audio stream , and the private key is located only on the device . By obtaining this key , the last part of the puzzle is found . After I wrote this , I have found <URL> , which describes it ( probably better ) than me .
<URL> does what you want . Also see <URL> on SuperUser . The only major limitation of Relaunch is it does not ( yet ) support Spaces ( virtual desktops ) .
The Airport Express/Extreme allows monitoring via SNMP if you enable it via the Airport Configuration Utility ( version 5.6 ONLY ) . Apple removed advanced configuration parameters from Airport Configuration Utility 6.0 . <URL> to get a full access to all configuration parameters of your router . SNMP configuration is located under Advanced settings . From there , ANY snmp polling engine can get traffic as a whole . You would be hard-pressed to find anything that could differenciate traffic between devices that is n't a real router ( Cisco , etc ) or custom built Linux box . I just found this during a quick serach : <URL> via <URL> allows you to monitor any SNMP device with a pretty interface .
iTunes starts playing what is currently selected . For me for instance the playlist selected was " Most recently added " , so when I hit the play button on the keyboard , the first song from this list starts to play . The only way I know of to solve your problem is to enable random play in iTunes . This is easily done by clicking the snaked arrow button next to the cover image in the top view . If it 's highlighted blue , random play is on . Quitting iTunes and hitting the play button again will play a random song from the library . Drawback : Whenever you changed that ( because you do n't want to have random play but want to listen to an album ) you have to remind yourself to enable it again before closing it . AFAIK there 's no preference setting for that .
You could create a launch agent , that starts when you first log in and re-starts if exited . Although I 'm sure the app has created one for it self , and some setting might not be set correctly . Create on is quite simple . Here is an example if BetterTouchTool was installed in folder , and had the executable in MacOS folder in the bundle . You 'll have to restart after creating and saving this plist file in folder . If you do n't wish to restart , you can run this to start the agent : You can change the value of program argument to what ever you like and read more about launch agents by typing in the Terminal . This will tell you about all the available options . There are also GUI apps to create these plist files for you , my favourite is <URL> . Though I would recommend you contact support for the app first , because this can result is in unexpected behaviour and mess with it 's functions . Like even if you force quit it now it 'll automatically launch ( it depends on the value of SuccessfulExit key ) .
end question
start question
On iPad , is there a way to go to " end of list " or " end of page " -- besides going to " top of page " ?
Unfortunately , there is no easy way to scroll to the end of a document other than by swiping repeatedly . It would be nice if Apple could add a specific gesture for this common action . If enough people request this feature at <URL> maybe they will add it into a future version of iOS .
<URL> is a great option . It 's fast too . Connect iphone , copy the files to your desired directory , disconnect . Connect other iphone , copy files to desired location on iphone . Boom ! Drag n drop ease . Free download , and cheap too . edit : it allows you to see entire disk media folder :)
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
launchd and the Login Items pane of Accounts preferences are the two places that normally start a process when you log in . If you do n't see the item in System Preferences - > Accounts - > specific account - > Login Items then you will have to look into launchd . Basically the LaunchAgents and LaunchDaemons folders in ~ / Library Lastly , if they are not there , then it 's a system level launchd task that you might want to use launchctl to show or look in / Library instead of the user level library . Most people just have to manage the preference pane . Here is a snap of mine showing the Activity Monitor selected and ready to be deleted if I press the -- button .
Have you seen this other question / answer ? <URL> The Finder has built in video encoding and you could even use these to set up watch folders and attach a pre-set conversion using Automator if you found one setting that you prefer ...
I 've done some research for you , and I did n't seem to find anything except paid applications , and one that is a half solution . I only found these three ( paid ) options : <URL> ( free trial , $ 32 for the full version ) Audio Hijack Pro will allow you to boost your sound pretty easily . Upon opening the application , click " System Audio " in the list on the side : Then at the top , click " Hijack " : Once Audio Hijack Pro is hijacking your audio , go to the Effects tab and where it says " Click here to insert effect " , click and under the 4FX Effect , click Gain . You 'll then have two dials to control the gain . Use these dials to boost the volume . In my use of Audio Hijack Pro for boosting volume , this seems like a viable solution . <URL> ( free trial , $ 6.99 , on sale right now for $ 4.99 ) Boom lives in your menu bar and has a simple slider to boost the volume . If you click on the button , you will be presented with an equalizer and numerous other nifty controls : <URL> ( free trial , $ 19.99 for a license ) Hear is a little more complex than the other applications . It is jam packed with features , as you can see from this screenshot : <URL> ( free and open source ) I 'm not including VLC as a complete solution as it may not work in your specific case . However , it is a half solution . You may be wondering why I include VLC as a solution . Here 's why : VLC boosts the volume of movie and audio files up to 400 % . If you open an audio/video file , adjust the volume slider and it will boost the file 's volume :
Start Safari Access bookmarks ( the Book icon on the toolbar ) Pick ' Reading List ' ( Top entry in the table with the glasses icon ) Unlike InstaPaper , the Reading List just collects links ( not content ) so you need to be online to access the articles .
Press and hold the Home and Power Button until your iPhone / iPad reboot ( ignore the " Slide to turn off " ) , you can release both buttons when you see Apple logo . You can even read the official <URL> .
When viewing your calendars at iCloud.com , click the " shared calendar info " button next to the calendar of interest ( Button is white for unshared calendars , green for shared ) . In the new window , check the " email me when this calendar is changed " box . Now , whenever someone else updates the calendar you will get an email with the change .
Not sure if this is a complete list , but this is a pretty good start from Apple : <URL> Here is another link to an image of the shortcuts : <URL>
The CPU percentages shown in Activity Monitor are 100 % for each virtual core . Therefore , for your hyper-threaded dual-core processor , 400 % is 100 % . In my case , the hyper-threaded quad-core in my Mac means that 800 % is 100 % .
There 's no default , but you could probably use AppleScript to accomplish this . Hmm ... EDIT : Make an AppleScript to run this shell script :
Unlike Chrome , Safari does n't seems to use a webpage for the top sites but rather another programmatic view . As you might have seen , the webinspector does n't work on this page .
While the Dock does n't have the concept of " folders " for the apps that are pinned to or running in it , as of Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard the <URL> feature can provide something similar . Dragging the Applications folder from the Finder into the " Stacks section " ( right of the white-dashed line ) of the Dock will add it as a Stack . You can then click the folder to see something like this : If you want subsets of your Applications as separate Stacks , you can create folders for each somewhere in your filesystem , and add <URL> for the desired applications . ( Note that dragging an app from the Applications folder to another folder makes an alias by default . Convenient ! ) The results look like this : All this being said , an alternative if you have OS X 10.7 Lion is to use <URL> to organize and access your apps , keeping the contents of your Dock as minimal as possible .
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
This blog post helps confirm the problem : <URL> The experimental tool to fix the lag issue is here ( also linked from the blog post ) <URL>
I 'm pretty sure you 're ( sadly ) limited to the fields in the view options windows ( cmd + j ) .
Yes . The command will do exactly what you want . To use it just type and either drag the folders you want to compare into the terminal window or type the folders ' path yourself . The is to recursively compare any subdirectories found , and the toggles diff into brief mode . Without it , diff , will not only tell you which files are different , but also the actual line-by-line differences for any text files that exist in both locations but are not identical . On the other hand , <URL> is a great Application to compare text , images and folders in a very neat and clean way . You can even merge changes with it .
If you 're comfortable in the Terminal , you can use rsync to copy some files from one place to another and it 'll give you summary stats on the speed : E.g. rsync -- stats -- human-readable ~ / Desktop/Large-File / Volumes/OtherDisk/Dir You can also type into the terminal just the command : ( note there needs to be one or more spaces after to end that command and break before the source and destination file names are provided ) Then drag the file / folder you wish to copy and drop it onto the terminal window , followed by dragging and dropping the destination directory . Dragging and dropping a file / folder onto a terminal window will place that file/folder 's path into the terminal window . Dragging a file is preferred in most cases since it will handle a space in any folder or file name . In this case the space needs an \ to indicate not to end the file name exactly opposite of needing the space earlier . The output of the above command will be similar to :
You can send a notification from the command line with this <URL> utility . Getting the notification data off a site can be fairly involved , requires at least some decent scripting and/or web coding knowledge , and is probably a better question to pose on <URL> . The basic outline of such a script would be : Open a site Send login data if necessary Scrape the page for the data you need ( unless you 're lucky and the site has a JSON or XML API , in which case you can parse that ) Send the appropriate data via the terminal-notify utility This sort of thing may be more common in the future though , as Safari 6 and Mountsin Lion add support for <URL> , which will allow a site to display notifications , when Safari has an open tab for that site . Support for this needs to be coded into the site however , so it 's not really an end user solution I 'm afraid .
end question
start question
How can I run a hardware test in lion ?
If your mac shipped with Lion , you should be able to run the hardware test by simply holding D when your computer boots . If your mac did not ship with lion , you will need the original install disks to boot into the hardware test mode . <URL>
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Mission Control and change the settings for " Move left a space " and " Move right a space " or disable them completely .
OK , as it turns out the test user can only be used from within the sandbox environment , which makes certain sense . This is described <URL> .
These apps ( and the full screen mode ) require APIs that are not available on versions prior to Lion . Even if one could purchase Mail separately , it would n't run .
You can switch which monitor is the " Primary " monitor by opening the Displays in Preferences and dragging and dropping the menu bar to your secondary monitor . That should make fullscreen apps use your other monitor .
It all depends on how each app is developed . It 's a safe bet that Apple would implement this feature on most of the apps included in OS X as well as the iWork and iLife apps . I would argue that another question just as important is which third-party apps have this feature . Not every third-party app that runs on Snow Leopard has Resume automatically when executed in Lion . This is a case-by-case situation , on which third-party app developers have to modify how their apps handle individual documents . Sometimes they have to make minor modifications , sometimes it may involve more complicated changes . The same goes for all the other major document management features in Lion ( such as Versions ) . Hope this helps .
Your best bet is to follow the instructions on this <URL> . Things you 'll need : Flash drive bigger than 4 GB ( 8 GB + would be best ) InstallESD.dmg ( extracted from the OS X Lion App , if you 've saved it prior to the upgrade ) There 's an alternate method mentioned <URL> . Note : If you do n't have the Lion Install App , follow the instructions on this <URL> to download it again .
This is addressed several times on the Apple Forums . It is a common problem . I will list a few of the answers that have worked for others . Before starting , do the obligatory iPad reboot . 1 ) From the iPad desktop click the stalled app . It will either restart the update process or report the " update failed " . If it fails you will then be able to restart the update from within iPads App updater . 2 ) If you have a desktop Mac , from iTunes go to menu Store > Check for Available Downloads . This should download the updated App to your iTunes . Then re-sync with your iPad . 3 ) Delete the app from your iPad then reinstall . I found that option 1 worked flawlessly for me .
To uninstall AdobeAIR by hand , quit any unnecessary applications ( specially applications that might use AdobeAIR ) . Then delete the following files and folders . / Applications/Adobe/Flash Player/AddIns/airappinstaller ( alternatively remove the / Applications/Adobe folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) / Applications/Utilities/Adobe AIR Application Installer.app / Applications/Utilities/Adobe AIR Uninstaller.app / Library/Frameworks/Adobe AIR.framework / Users/Shared/Library / Application Support/Adobe/AIR ( alternatively remove the / Users/Shared/Library folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) The following files are in your Home Folder ( represented by ' ~ ' ) . You can access this Library folder by holding down ⌥ while accessing the Finder menu Go > Library . ~ / Library/Application Support/Adobe/AIR ( alternatively remove the ~ / Library/Application Support/Adobe folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) ~ / Library/Caches/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller ~ / Library/Caches/com . adobe.air.Installer ~ / Library/Preferences/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller.plist ~ / Library/Preferences/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller.plist.lockfile ~ / Library/Preferences/Macromedia / Flash Player / #Security / FlashPlayerTrust/air .1.0 . trust.cfg ~ / Library/Preferences/Macromedia / Flash Player/www . macromedia.com/bin/airappinstaller These files were found by scanning the file system before and after installing the latest version of AdobeAIR to see the file changes that were made .
There 's no way to turn the touch input off temporarily , but you can prevent the Apple Watch from stopping workouts early . When you start a workout just go to the watch face the way you normally would , the Workout will run in the background and ca n't be stopped until you go back to the app and it stop it yourself . It 's not perfect , as you ca n't see your live progress , but it still works .
To see all graphics supported modes use the alt key before clicking on Scaled in display preferences . To see it in 19:9 use a Thunderbolt cable to a TV . ( assuming you have those ) If you have a Mac like I do ( MBA 2012 ) then using the Thunderbolt you can get up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on your HDTV .
Use the built-in CUPS web interface to get detailed printer information : <URL>
You can disable it through Terminal with the following command : It can be re-enabled with : With OS X 10.10 Yosemite or 10.11 El Capitan , you can go to System Preferences → Mission Control and switch Dashboard to off .
Apple decided not to include X11 in Mountain Lion : <URL> But there is now a native version of GIMP for mountain lion which requires no X11 : <URL> However , if you need to run the old version of GIMP you can download <URL> as mentioned in the apple support document linked above . When you try to run GIMP again , you can find Xquartz in Enjoy GIMP !
Launchd will run your jobs next time the mac wakes from sleep . So if you shut down your mac , this wo n't work . You will need to put your mac to sleep to get your daily script to run when the mac wakes if the last time it should have run was during the sleep duration . man launchd.plist : If the system is asleep , the job will be started the next time the computer wakes up . If multiple intervals transpire before the computer is woken , those events will be coalesced into one event upon wake from sleep . Or in other words : You do n't have to do anything specific , it 's the default behavior anyway . If you also want to run the command once after reboot , add to your launchd plist .
In Lion , the trackpad double-click speed slider and a few other trackpad options have been moved to : .
Go to configuration by type in address bar and press enter key then enter scroll in filter box , now you can change all scroll options .
<URL> works for me at OS X Snow Leopard : When an email is sent using PHP 's mail ( ) function , the email is piped through to the smtp_catcher.php script . The smtp_catcher.php script saves the email into a local folder as a . emlx file . The email is opened through Apple Mail and displayed on the screen ( woo ! ) .
Run your first instance as usual , by clicking the icon . Run the second one from terminal ;
A new , better answer . First I used virtual box . Then I used browserstack Now I use parallels Around for a few years but lately made robust and even friendlier . It 's even easier than the others , setup is easier , saving state is easier , keyboard-mouse integration is better . Generally its better . Only item of note is that it cost about $ 80 which should be petty change for most developer who are paid that in an hour or two . Paid software is actually my preference - it gives me some confidence that it will actually be maintained going forward . Plus I 'm a developer ... paying a. . . developer . Seems like a good thing .
end question
start question
Why does GPS on the iPhone use so much power ?
To obtain a semi precise GPS position , you need at least three satellites ( but usually four or more is required to obtain a decent degree of precision ) to triangulate your position . The more you have the better the accuracy . A GPS receiver needs to power its antenna , and constantly process the signal sent by each satellite . Remember that satellites are continually transmitting messages . ( 50 bits/sec as far as I can remember ) Satellites emit messages specifying their exact location , trajectory , speed , the time each message was sent and the rough location of all the other satellites in the constellation . By comparing this info to the time the signal was received a distance from the satellite to the receiver can be determined . When you have three or more satellites you can triangulate your location in three dimensions relative to the positions of the satellites . The iPhone ( and other phones ) use A-GPS , which is designed to ( believe it or not ) among other things , make the GPS work better in poor reception areas ( cities ? ) and reduce the amount of information that the receiver needs from the satellites , thus saving battery power from the Antenna . The parts of the GPS signal about location , speed and orbital trajectory usually drop out first when in low reception , that 's where A-GPS fits in , feeding that info for every satellite in that part of the world to the phone , from a central database via the mobile network . Now the phone just has to search for the short timing signals from each satellite , which are easier to receive than the other parts of the transmission . When all that information is calculated , an algorithm ( there are a few as far as I know ) is used to compute the position of the actual receiver . Now add to that the fact that GPS messages are encoded and that satellites broadcast the messages at about 50 bits per second . And that each message is really a subset of frames with time , position , error correction , etc , etc. . There are more factors involver , but for the purpose of making this simple , the GPS 's cpu must constantly use the radio ( already power hungry ) to capture the signal ( which may be weak ! ) for usually four or more ( sometimes up to 20 ! ) satellites that are constantly sending packages , then it must decode and process them , perform calculations to analyze the results and in some cases draw a map or feed an application with the info . As you can see , this sounds easy but it 's not . There 's a lot of CPU processing involved in the back ( plus the antenna 's power ! ) So the GPS power consumption usually comes from the real time nature of the operation . Powering the antenna , listening for information and processing it , uses power , more than just a standby radio antenna ( the phone ) waiting for a call . Plus the A-GPS uses also the phone 's radio and ( if available ) Wi-Fi networks to determine its location ( and use less GPS info ) , which means , more power is used at the same time . The <URL> page has a lot of detailed information if you want to get the specifics and/or dive into more GPS geekery , including the math and error correction stuff .
Yes , the MagSafe power adapters support dual voltage ( 100-240V ) . According to the specs on Amazon for the <URL> : Input : AC 100V ~ 240V 50/60Hz So long as the local input provides power in that range , you 'll be able to get a local MagSafe compatible cord and your US MBP will be fine .
iCloud backups the following : Photos and videos in the Camera Roll Device settings ( for example : Phone Favorites , Wallpaper , and Mail , Contacts , Calendar accounts ) App data Home screen and app organization Messages ( iMessage , SMS , and MMS ) Ringtones Visual Voicemails It might be due to your app data size and also if this is the first time backing up then it will take a bit longer . Have a look at this <URL> , it will explain why else it might take longer .
If you want it right now , why not plug the phone into the Mac &amp; use Image Capture , in the Applications folder - which is the importer ' behind ' Photos.app . You can also set it to auto-launch any capable app , including itself , when a device is connected [ or do nothing ] &amp; set exactly where your imports should be saved . You can also dictate whether it should auto-delete from the device afterwards , or alternatively you can manually delete any selected pictures . <URL>
I do n't have an iPhone 4 to test this , but I assume Core Location will do . <URL> <URL> is also an option , and comes with some more information .
<URL> , the 4th gen iPod Touch has 256MB , not 512MB like the iPhone 4. : Breaking news : the iPod Touch has only 256 MB RAM , same Samsung part markings as iPad .
Well - at the most basic level iOS and Mac OS X are the same kernel and startup processes using launchd and standard unix-heritage programs . iOS has full sandboxing and arguably tighter access control infrastructure to build up - so in some ways , iOS does more to start up than Mac OS X does . Once you add on mac things , of course it is more extensible so many people have much bigger loads to lift on an OS X reboot than an iOS boot . I would argue that all the above arguments are moot and to a first approximation , you are seeing the CPU capability of the Mac hardware shining as well as the read speed of the mac storage as opposed to the iOS storage and the effects of more RAM being a better advantage and more than offsetting the larger library and binary size on Mac OS X.
I would say there is n't really any default music player on the iPhone . You could say that Apple 's Music-app is the one that opens when you press " Play " on the lock-screen or the " multitasking bar " , but there 's no real advantage in that . To answer your question , no . You are pretty much unable to change any default things in the non-jailbroken version of iOS . With that said , you can do some tweaks having jailbroken your device . If you would like to use Siri to play your Spotify music , there is a jailbreak app for that called <URL> . Other than that , you could use the jailbreak app <URL> . It makes the Spotify-application the one used on the multitasking bar .
Almost all apps downloaded from the Apps Store are full ( self-containing ) updates or upgrades . They completely replace the updated app . The only exception updating your system with the App Store.app are security updates ( e.g Security Update 2015-002 ) or system updates ( e.g. System Update 10.11.1 or Combo Update 10.10.5 ) which do n't necessarily replace an app/framework/resource but often only parts of it .
Have you looked at <URL> ( nVidia only ) or <URL> to do just this ? Both technologies are made to leverage the GPU .
Yes , the GPS does not need cellular data or cellular service to work . It will get better results when GPS is offline if it can poll the location database and trilateralate from both Wi-Fi and cellular towers , but GPS is generally better than the these secondary sources of location data . The phone should connect to Wi-Fi regularly to keep the location database up to date - perhaps while tethered to your iPhone 5 for optimal results . For most situations it will work almost as if it were connected to cellular data and the cellular data switch was off .
PNG is not only useful for allowing transparency : PNG is a <URL> , while JPEG uses a <URL> . Also PNG does compress screenshots pretty well ( unlike camera photos , which is why Apple uses JPG for those ) . More info if interested : Also , <URL> is worth reading ( it 's basically one of the main references on the topic and contains enough details to spend the day on it ) . Excerpt : For the Web , as of early 1999 , there are two image formats with ubiquitous support : JPEG and GIF . JPEG is very well suited to the task for which it was designed -- namely , the storage , transmission , and display of photorealistic 8-bit grayscale and 24-bit truecolor images with good quality and excellent compression -- and PNG was never intended to compete with JPEG on its own terms . But PNG , like GIF , is more appropriate than JPEG for images with few colors or with lots of sharp edges , such as cartoons or bitmapped text . PNG also provides direct support for gamma correction ( loosely speaking , the cross-platform control of image `` brightness '' ) and transparency . I 'll discuss these in more detail shortly . GIF was the original cross-platform image format for the Web , and it is still a good choice in many respects . But PNG was specifically designed to replace GIF , and it has three main advantages over the older format : alpha channels ( variable transparency ) , gamma correction , and two-dimensional interlacing ( a method of displaying images at progressively higher levels of detail ) . PNG also compresses better than GIF in almost every case , but the difference is generally only around 5 % to 25 % , which is ( usually ) not a large enough factor to encourage one to switch on that basis alone . One GIF feature that PNG does not try to reproduce is multiple-image support , especially animations ; PNG was and is intended to be a single-image format only . A very PNG-like extension format called MNG has been developed to address this limitation .
Save a plist like this as : Then load the plist with or by logging out and back in . is supposed to open an application hidden and without raising any windows . For some document-based applications like TextEdit , it opens a new visible window if the application is open but has no visible windows . and the option for were added in 10.8 . The option is only shown in the help message and not on the man page .
As another answer pointed out , iOS 8 <URL> , much the same way FileVault encrypts a hard drive on a Mac . The more data you have , the longer it will take to de-crypt or re-encrypt all this stuff as you toggle it . The secondary reason for this is by design : Mac OS and iOS have <URL> , as most are aware ( side note : how cool is it iOS auto-fills ' underpinnings ' after I type ' UNIX ' ?! ) . UNIX systems implement a <URL> , which is designed to resist brute-force attacks because it takes so damn long . While the effectiveness of this technique has waned as processors become faster and more powerful , it 's still noticeable as the little spinny thing on your login screen just before you log in to your Mac , which would make sitting there and typing random passwords very annoying ( read up on pam_unix if this interests the developer side of your brain ) .
The answer you are expecting wo n't satisfy you because the cost of making those devices is much less then the price they sell them for ... But in order to answer your question , I 've made a table . Unfortunately , I did n't find any records of the iPod touch 16GB and 32GB , but I expect they are quite alike . I 'm sure Apple does get his share on the sold subsidized iPhones too . The difference between US and Europe is the difference between a locked iPhone and an unlocked iPhone ( because in Belgium , you pay this much for an iPhone ... ) <URL> is an interesting article about the difference in production costs between an iPod touch and an iPhone . And if you want to know what an iPhone costs in detail ( every part ) , take a look at <URL> . So , although it seems like Apple is making an awe full lot of money on these devices , Apple invested billions and billions of dollars in R&amp;D , design , production , marketing , distribution , stores , packaging , ... So in the end Apple is still taking a lot of profit on these devices , but not as much as you might think . In my opinion , they get paid for their hard work . To answer your question why the iPhone costs more then the iPod touch , I think it 's because , as you 've pointed out , the design is quite similar so most of the costs of the iPod touch mentioned above ( R&amp;D , design , ... ) are already recouped with the iPhone , since the iPhone was released before the iPod touch .
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
Although Nathan has a valid point for wall charging , from personal experience it is possible to discharge the battery while it is plugged into a powered USB port . Even though my iPod Touch 2nd Gen was plugged into my MacBook , playing Need for Speed Undercover was sufficient to cause the device to power down due to low battery . It seems that a powered USB does n't provide sufficient charge to offset the drain caused by a graphically intensive game . To sum up : if you are worried about exhausting the battery while charging , use a wall charger .
The activity recorded on the Apple Watch is separate from the activity recorded on the iPhone . As such each is recorded as a separate source in health.app . Also only activity recorded on the Apple Watch is reflected in activity.app . Source : <URL> - Apple Software Engineer <URL>
OS X has a bit of mouse input lag and acceleration . You can fix this by installing <URL> . It works great for me in CS : GO . You can enable and disable it separately for the mouse and trackpad from the preference pane .
OS X applications are actually special folders which contain numerous smaller files , resources , binaries , localization settings , etc. . When the Finder opens a folder with a lot of apps , it needs to do a lot more than it would to open a folder with the same number of ordinary documents . At the very least , the Finder needs to check for the localized name of each app and load each app 's icon . It will also need to check whether it can launch the app , checking if it 's Intel , PPC , Universal , or Classic , possibly checking if it 's 64-bit or 32-bit , too . It 's possible the Finder is gathering other info as well , possibly checking the folder structure of each app to verify it 's actually an app , or checking its info.plist for file type associations , etc. . Lion may also verify that each app is listed in Launchpad . Of course , the more apps you have , the longer this process will take . I would guess that , unless your Macs are starved for RAM , the only way to make this process faster is to startup from an SSD instead of a conventional HD . Or perhaps delete all unneeded apps ( that were not installed by OS X ) . Also , the first time after each login , the Applications and Utilities folders may be slightly less responsive initially , even after the apps have shown up , because the Finder also needs to examine each app to calculate its total file size .
end question
start question
What version of Silverlight works with the latest 10.7 release ?
Silverlight - 5.0.61118.0 MacBookPro9 ,2 50 - 10.7.5 ( 11G63 ) 5 - 10.8.2 ( 12A269 ) Silverlight Prefs come up just fine . Installed programs : Chrome 24 Safari 6 Firefox 18 All updates iLife iWork Office 2008 Adobe CS3 VLC Smart Notebook
Silverlight - 5.0.61118.0 MacBookPro9 ,2 50 - 10.7.5 ( 11G63 ) 5 - 10.8.2 ( 12A269 ) Silverlight Prefs come up just fine . Installed programs : Chrome 24 Safari 6 Firefox 18 All updates iLife iWork Office 2008 Adobe CS3 VLC Smart Notebook
There are a variety of iOS icon templates available for free on the web -- the best I 've seen so far is from <URL> -- that will offer up this information ( and possibly even obviate the need to know entirely ) . There is even a ( very ) short discussion about the corner radii . A quick search for will return a lot of similar results .
You can change this setting later at any time . It does n't affect the AppStore . The region setting will affect the availability of certain features which are n't available in all regions yet such as Apple Pay and Apple News . Apple News is only available if you set your region to Australia , UK or US . Apple Pay is additionally available in Canada .
The <URL> , specifically the <URL> , has pretty detailed information about it . Depending on several factors , I summarize the following : Resolution max . recommended high profile encoder settings , for a 16:9 aspect ratio over wifi : Dimensions : 1920 x 1080 Total bitrate : 40000 kbps Video bitrate : 39000 kbps Keyframes : 90 Framerate A frame rate of 10 fps is recommended for video streams under 200 kbps . For video streams under 300 kbps , a frame rate of 12 to 15 fps is recommended . For all other streams , a frame rate of 29.97 is recommended . There is tons of more info , but in short , the specs say : " Yes ! " you can stream a 1080p movie through Airplay . And there are several examples of " Airplay-enabled-games " , like first person shooters , that work just great . However , the crucial factor will be your wifi network as this will determine your lag/delay and - probably - most limiting factors . So there will be a significant delay on any 802.11 N based wifi network . And therefor , there will be lag with latency-sensitive audio/video interactive purposes , like games . For movies , it should be no problem though . Summarizing : The limitations of wifi transfer speeds is n't near to your perfect world when connected through a cable .
Same Answer as given <URL> : Basically you want to use the System Image Utility to create a bootable . dmg you can than put on a USB drive . Have a look at <URL> , it covers this process in detail ( you probably can leave out some steps ) ; this should get you started .
You can enter events to specific calendars by holding down the + button See here the entry from iCal help : Add events to a calendar You can add any kind of event to your iCal calendars . For example , you can add meetings , doctor appointments , and family activities . You ca n't add events to a calendar you subscribed to . Open iCal Click Add ( + ) at the top of the iCal window or press Command ( ⌘ ) - N. Events are added automatically to your default calendar . If you want to choose a different calendar for the event , hold down the Add button ( + ) , and then choose a calendar . To change your default calendar , choose iCal > Preferences , click General , and then select a calendar from the Default Calendar pop-up menu .
See this <URL> . Basically , you have to edit the plist for Lync , and enter a registry key equivalent . The explanation is below : Basically , the equivalent to the registry keys for windows needs to be entered in the Lync config plist file on the mac , a file named MicrosoftLyncRegistrationDB.xxx.plist that you can find in ~ / Library/Preferences/ByHost . In it , you will need to create an entry for each segment of the reg key path for the DisableServerCheck flag ( all lower case ) . It should look like this : hkey_current_user \ hkey_current_user \ software \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ communicator \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ communicator \ disableservercheck The value for each of the path segments is " < > " and type string . For the disableservercheck flag , the type is " Number " and the value is 1 . You can use a plist editor ( there 's a few free ones for the mac , or you can also use Xcode ) to edit the plist file . The screenshot below shows you how it should look like .
Sync your iPod Touch configuration back to iTunes and then sync your iPad with iTunes ! For syncing your iPod configuratuon you must only connect it with iTunes . Every time it will be created a backup of the device . After that you connect your iPad ( which has been restored to default factory ) with iTunes . Then you can do the following steps which are described on the <URL> ( Restoring your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch ) .
OK , this might be somewhat opinion-based , however ... Possible , yes . Worth it , no . Possible There are tools &amp; online guides far too long to repro or précis here on how to achieve it . It requires hacking the firmware &amp; needs re-hacking at each update - These guides from MacRumors are as good as they get , one for <URL> &amp; another for <URL> . Worth it ? The 1,1 &amp; 2,1 are really end-of-life &amp; now very slow compared to a ' modern ' machine . I really guess it depends on your budget , but you can get an absolute top-flight 5,1 [ or the smart money goes on a 4,1 with the Apple upgrade kit ] with two 6-core hyperthreading Xeons @ 3.46 GHz &amp; 64GB RAM for under # 1800 in the UK . Your existing drives will just carry over [ though idk about the OS itself , mine did from a 3,1 to 5,1 ] . The Geekbench scores on those are about 32k , that 's slightly under the current top model ' trash-can ' at 33k . I just checked the score for the 2.66 Mac Pro , 6k . I took the latter path , even though I was only moving up from a 3,1 - which is now in the hands of my partner &amp; very happily running El Capitan . I wanted a speed boost &amp; the upgraded 4,1 was right on the money for me .
There 's a first time for everything but , but basically : no . Unless you have found the mother of all security bugs , so humiliating that it would overshadow Apple 's entire Mountain Lion release , the bug to end all bugs and live on in infamy , it just is not going to happen . Not to mention , fixing and testing bugs generally takes time . The fastest Apple bug fix ever , to my knowledge , took <URL> but that 's very unusual for a company its size . In general it takes weeks , in many cases months , even years .
In quality terms , HDMI is identical to DVI , but some TVs see DVI as a " computer input " and HDMI as a " media input " , and may give you slightly different options . I 'd have a quick search online to see if anyone 's used your model TV with a Mac Mini , just to make sure . By the way , unless you 're running it a great distance , there 's no advantage whatsoever to an expensive HDMI cable . The cheapest one you can buy is as good as any other !
According to <URL> , an Apple spokesman stated that the touch-screen iPod Nano does not run iOS .
OpenSSL is deprecated officially . It exists ( for what little time Apple allows going forward ) to not break software that does n't either migrate to Apple 's alternative or bundle SSL internally with the app . See the Apple Developer link for the deprecation announcement : ( the other links are easier reading / more synthesis of the why as to the what ) <URL> <URL> <URL>
You can upgrade to Mountain Lion from both Lion and Snow Leopard ( SL ) . With SL you will need to be running the latest version 10.6.8 and then you can just buy it through the app store . check this link for more details : <URL> You just need to make sure your machine can handle Mountain Lion which you can see with this app from the app store <URL> OS ' are like normal apps - they can be installed on up to 5 machines . Good Luck on the upgrade :-)
This <URL> you 're running . Leopard : <URL> Tiger : <URL> Newer Macs can use ... Snow Leopard/Lion : <URL>
<URL> . Because of that , you will continue to be able to upgrade to iOS 9.3.5 at any time in the future . Apple continues to sign the last available firmware for all devices , which will be iOS 9.3.5 for the iPad 2 . Examples of how the last supported version of iOS for a device continues to be signed : <URL>
I need the bundle identifier to be the same as the previous version of the app . I do n't have that same identifier . The identifier is transferred along with the app , so once the app is transferred you continue to use the old identifier which has been transferred along with it . Therefore you are free to submit updates as if you were submitting updates to the old app . Do I need to create a new provisioning profile ? Yes you will . You can do this from the Member Centre or Xcode as you would have done for the app on the old account .
You have to migrate all your code to Swift 1.2 if you 're using Xcode 6.3 . If you go to Edit > Convert > To Latest Swift Syntax , it will help find many of the changes . However , there 's still a lot of manual editing to do . In the long run , it will serve you better to keep your Swift code at the latest version so that future migrations are easier and so that you can take advantage of future enhancements to the language .
It keeps holiday music out of my playlists , off my iPhone , until I want to overdose on them from December 24th through 25th every year . For that alone : I love the check box .
end question
start question
Is it possible to automate FTP in Terminal ?
The easier way to do this is with <URL> . For example : supports options to supply a user name ( -- user = user ) and password ( -- password = password ) if anonymous FTP access is n't available . And a -- quiet mode so it 's - friendly and does n't fill up your local inbox without messages for successful downloads .
No , unless you buy a specific mouse The option to define custom mouse acceleration curves was present in OS X 10.4 , but apple simplified it in 10.5 , and removed it entirely in 10.6 . <URL> is a supposedly forthcoming pref-pane that completely replaces the OS X mouse HID kext . However , development is really slow , or stalled . Personally , I have poked about a bit in the kernel myself , but am unfamiliar with kernel programming . Fixing the mouse acceleration on OS X will at minimum require a custom kext , which is non-trivial to code . The option that is out there is to buy a Microsoft mouse , and use it on OS X. Microsoft has released <URL> for their mice that <URL> . Essentially , the windows " Enhance Pointer Precision " option applies linear velocity-based acceleration to the mouse movements , e.g. the distance moved is proportional to the speed the mouse moves . Think of it as basically having the DPI of the mouse inversely proportional to the mouse 's speed . OS X on the other hand , has a stepped acceleration curve , where the mouse moves at one DPI when slow , and another when moved faster then a threshold . There are pref-panes that let you disable OS X 's acceleration curve , but none that allow you to substitute windows . As far as I can tell ( and this is opinion ) , this curve is optimized for trackpads . In my opinion , it is more then useless for mice ( using a mac mouse actually damaged my mousing efficacy on windows , which really affects my work ( CAD Stuff ) ) . Personally , I have entirely dispensed with the idea of using a mouse on OS X , and ust bought a Magic Trackpad .
I do not know if there is such a possibility to have this as a default behavior but you could simply move the application to your user application directory or anywhere else . Finder by default creates an alias when you drag an application out of the folder . However , if you hold down the " Command " key while dragging your applications , they will move to wherever you drag them . If you want to go a geekier route , you can also use Terminal and execute this command : After promting for your login password everything is fine . Be sure to be administrator of your system . This certainly works for me . I can use the application as usual and it receives all updates via the Mac App Store .
No , this is not possible since iBooks does not support bulk importing of content from other applications on an iOS device . The three ways to add books to iBooks are : Purchase from the iBooks store and download Sync books through iTunes Send a single book ( not several ) from another application on the iOS device with the Open In ... iBooks option Also , iBooks does not have the concept of folders and folder hierarchies . It does have Collections , but there is no way to map folders to Collections from iTunes or any other source .
Even if the creation tools are gone or hidden very well from us , you point out Lion is happy to keep running a user that has been migrated in so you can take advantage of that to get what you had back again . Lion makes it several steps with some minor " complications " - but you should be able to Migrate another user shell in and move your current data into that older style account . It 's slightly tricky to juggle the users - you 'll want a backup and need to set up a second admin account to do the move . You 'll delete the user , but not the files and import the old user ( clear the old data ) and finally move the new data into place using the old storage mechanism . You 'll need one of a running Snow Leopard system or boot disk ( to make and then migrate a FileVault 1 user ) a backup of the system from Snow Leopard days ( even if the user data is wrong - you just need the account settings and shell sparse bundle to migrate in again ) I keep an external USB drive with 15G partitions around with the last OS but no real user data . You could install Snow Leopard onto an external disk or partition and make shell user with FileVault 1 enabled or you could use any backup from your Snow Leopard time to move in another copy of your user with FV1 - and simply move the current contents into the old encrypted sparse bundle storage . Let 's start a new question if you want advice HOW to actually do this ( since it will depend on your specifics ) - this question stands well just with the simple fact that the built in tool to do this is n't available on Lion .
You can disable it in System - > Hardware as far as I remember .
No , since the screenshots are simply taken from the pixels shown on-screen or off-screen . However , the screenshots can be turned into vectors using software such as Adobe Illustrator , but the result wo n't be exact .
The only thing you can do is to copy a cell without borders over the one that has . If you type the info in first at least you do n't have to remember it .
I actually have found one solution : <URL> Usual warnings concerning ( non - ) confidentiality of data etc. apply .
Firstly , you should be sure why you would like to do this and what a fresh environment would provide . This is going to be a bit tedious to do since you have multiple sources for the installs . For homebrew , follow the steps in <URL> . For MacPorts , follow the steps from the <URL> page . For PHP and Apache , it may not be simple to revert them to what the OS came with if you installed these outside of solutions like homebrew , MacPorts , MAMP or XAMPP . The non-tedious way , which may take longer to complete , is to Clone your drive ( using a tool like <URL> or <URL> or <URL> ) . Reinstall the OS afresh . Then use Migration Assistant to bring everything over from the clone . You would have to uncheck the " Other files and folders on ... " option in Migration Assistant to prevent it from bringing back the locations that homebrew , MacPorts , etc. , use . This method would also skip many files ( like in / Users/Shared ) that you would have to copy over manually from the backup .
Here is my little script to do what you are asking for . Tested on a couple of tracks on my iTunes 11 under Snow Leopard and it run just fine . EDIT : You can get a glimpse of what is going on by looking at the output it sents to the Events pane . Just run it inside the Applescript Editor and click on the Events &amp; Replies buttons to unhighlight them . EDIT2 : To limit the script you can change the line to
Yes , restarts are possible . Hold the home button and the lock button until the Apple logo is displayed.Switching it off &amp; on is the same as restarting .
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
You can use xattr . This copies the tags from file1 to file2 : The tags are stored in a property list as a single array of strings : If the kColor flag in com.apple.FinderInfo is unset , Finder does n't show the circles for colors . If the kColor flag is set to orange and the file has the red tag , Finder shows both red and orange circles . You can set the kColor flag with AppleScript : prints the value of the bits used for the kColor flag . Red is C , orange is E , yellow is A , green is 4 , blue is 8 , magenta is 6 , and gray is 2 . The flag that would add 1 to the values is not used in OS X. Edit : you can also use <URL> : tag can be installed with or .
As described in Apples <URL> : To delete the Keychain completely , you have to deselect in the iCloud Account details under system preferences . After that , turn off the Keychain usage on every device that is using it . This will delete the complete keychain . Turning on the will result in a clean keychain . If you want to edit items stored in the iCloud keychain you can do so via the Mac OS X keychain app or from your iDevice in the Safari preferences . Mac OS X example : On the left , select iCloud and delete / edit items on the right .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
To your questions : Is it possible to upgrade the SSD at all ? I have heard rumours that they are soldered in after 2010 , and are not replaceable . Yes , it should be possible , <URL> have done it . This video ( How to Upgrade/Replace the Hard Drive in the 2011 15 " MacBook Pro ) shows the procedure ( just for information , I understand you do n't want to void your AppleCare warranty ) : <URL> . My city and country ( Tallinn , Estonia ) has no official Apple stores that I know of , but does have Apple-authorised resellers . Are they the appropriate place to get this done ? Yes , I 'd definitely go to an Apple authorized reseller . I could find Premium resellers in Tallinn ( see <URL> ) : You can select another country/language from <URL> ( though I used the trick explained here <URL> ) .
After installing Acrobat , there should be an Adobe PDF entry in the list of printers ( System Settings - > Printers ) . Alternatively , you can try <URL>
More reading on <URL> indicates that the warranties are not honored internationally for iPads and iPhones . If you buy somewhere and it breaks , you will likely have to send it back to the country of purchase . Apparently , this is because most countries have their own warranty laws .
Text is copied in rich form in iOS 3 + . You can try it by copying some text in Safari and pasting it to Mail . But pasted text format will depend of the app . For example , the SimpleNote app only paste in plain text format , since the service does n't not support image and text styling . There is no native way to see the copied text in HTML form . You 'll have to find an app to do that .
end question
start question
How can I change notification sounds on iOS ?
Not so far . You can do decide whether to turn on the sound or not for particular app ( if it enables user to turn off the notification sound ) . But you can not change the notification sound globally or per-app ( not at least in iOS 5 ) .
According to Apple , <URL> is simplified application . It only lets you choose the printer and the number of copies , but not print quality etc. . in other words it use the current Printer defaults . So what can you do ? Log in to the printer 's set up page IP address that you need to know it first , but it is something like ( 192.168 . xxx ) and change it there . However , this solution will affect all following documents until you change it again .
The 6th gen Nano can now be <URL> which introduced the features from the 7th gen , including 16 watch faces , some of which are digital . Version 1.2 of the iPod nano software brings improved fitness features ( which are better able to detect and track walking or running work outs ) , as well as the new single icon scrolling interface , which replaces the 4 × 4 icon grid . You can switch back to small icons or turn off home screen items altogether from the Settings menu . Last but not least , you 'll get access to all the new iPod nano clock face options .
No , not without jailbreaking . If you 're willing to jailbreak your phone , there is a tweak called <URL> ( no idea how they came up with the name ) which lets you select which direction the app switcher goes in . ( Note : if you have updated to iOS 9.1 , there 's no jailbreak utility currently available for it and there is <URL> . )
I figured out that I needed to enter the following in the terminal : I did this already , and it seemed to fix the issue , but would love to know if this is the advisable way to solve the problem . ======================================================== Also , in case you want to enable the process afterwards , you can use this : sources : <URL> <URL>
You can add an AppleLanguages array to the plist of an application : See for the language identifiers . <URL> is a GUI for doing the same thing .
The IMEI is kind of like a MAC address for the cellular network only . It is nearly impossible to change it , you can only spoof it on a software level . So the answer is , No , your IMEI will never change unless you really really want it to . Removing the SIM card should n't change the IMEI either ...
I 've set a stylesheet in Safari and these are the changes that occurred in Safari 's plist : Your command line would be :
You can edit any icon by right-clicking ( control-clicking ) the application , choosing , and dragging the replacement icon over the original icon at the top of the window that appears . You can also copy and paste the image you 'd like to use as an icon , <URL> . This works for files or folders you 'd like to change the icon for .
That login banner is a provided aspect of the Game Center API in the iOS SDKs , as far as I 'm aware there is no way as a developer to disable it from opening when the Game Center login completes . As a user , there is certainly no way to disable it , because it is part of the application 's compiled source code . However , note that it 's not the banner that is causing the delays and skips . It is actually the entire login process to Game Center . My only advice is when you open a game that has Game Center logins , open it up to the first functional screen , and just wait the ~ 5-10 seconds it takes to reveal the Game Center banner . After the banner has displayed and disappeared , proceed normally and you should not be affected any further .
Open the finder window and hit cmd + j. Select the settings you want and then at the bottom hit Use As Defaults .
It turns out that there is one app that does not have a " Sounds " setting , but still produces sounds and vibrations : Calendar . It 's easy to overlook the all-important setting " Calendar Alerts . " Tap that , tap vibrate , scroll all the way to the bottom , and set vibration to " None . " That should solve it . Here 's your problem right here : Just turn vibration off : That 's right !
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
Nope . In the stock keyboard provided by the API , a " Forward Delete " ( as opposed to a Backward Delete/Backspace ) , none of the keys , nor combination therein , provide a Delete keystroke to occur . Your only option , as you now see , is to use an external keyboard to accomplish this . Any other options would just be something else entirely . Like selecting a word , and deleting it , or using replace , etc. .
No , you ca n't do that . Apple only allows users to update to the latest software , as it fights version fragmentation . I recommend just updating to iOS 8.4.1 . For the most part , whatever bugs existed in iOS 8 are fixed by now . You could also just wait until iOS 9 comes out in a couple of weeks , bug fixes and performance enhancements will be a major part of iOS 9 . This all is an effect of " code signing " where you need Apple to sign the version of code at the moment it gets installed . Since <URL> , you would need to jailbreak or bypass that entire process . Unless you 're into the details of Jailbreaking you can stay at iOS 6 or upgrade to the versions Apple supports/signs . I strongly recommend against jailbreaking , though .
I figured this out : I had a problem that my font got changed size 11 , and changing back to 13 did n't fix the default - the next email would go back to 11 The solution is this : Type some text and highlight it . But instead of changing the font in the pulldown above the editing window ( which wo n't change the default ) , so this instead : With the text selected , in the top menu select Format > Font > Bigger or Smaller , till it get the size you want . ( You can also do this by hitting Command + or Command - . ) Oddly , that fixes the default , while using the normal size toggle does n't .
In iTunes , go to the iTunes Store tab , and click on your account in the top right corner , as shown . After typing your password , you will see this page . Click ' Change Country or Region ' , and change it . All done ! Note : if you have any iTunes Store credit , you will have to spend all of it before it lets you switch countries .
First you select the folder where your custom background images are in the left section , then you just select and choose in the dropdown .
The <URL> extension allows you to set any search engine you want . It achieves it by listening to the event , canceling the default behaviour and checking your settings for your chosen search engine . Then it puts your query into the specified search engine and displays the results . You could , too , edit the file , redirecting form any of the default search engines to the one you want , but that wont be so neat .
If you 're still looking for a method to darken your UI in Yosemite , download Flavours 2 and choose the " Smooth Criminal " flavour . Flavours 2 is still in Beta , but most things look great with this skin .
end question
start question
What can developers see in my address book ?
It can access everything that 's displayed in the Address book . More about that can be found in the <URL> .
It can access everything that 's displayed in the Address book . More about that can be found in the <URL> .
You can host your own calendar ( CalDAV ) and contact ( CardDAV ) server using Mac OS Server ' Leopard ' or Server ' Snow Leopard . ' These will sync over the Internet to iCal and Address Book on your Macs , and to your iOS devices . If you do n't want to get an expensive Mac Mini Server you could go with using an old retired notebook or even a virtual machine with a Linux installation . The open source project <URL> will provide you with both CalDAV and CardDAV services . I am personally using an installation of DAViCal too keep my Macs and iOS devices in sync using a older machine I have at home as the server . I would recommend this solution as you remain in control of your own data . Getting it up and running requires some work , but you would be able to congratulate yourself with the accomplishment . There are step-by-step tutorials for setting up both Linux and the DAViCAL software available .
I do n't believe so . The available API for battery state in iOS gives you only 5 % resolution . It might be possible to write an app that polls battery state and calculates a rate of charge based on the time between 5 % intervals but I do n't know of any apps that do this . If you want to get your app on the app store that 's about the best way of measuring it directly . I know of an app that captures the screen and looks at the battery charge image to determine charge an alternative way but that 's iffy , the size or appearance of the battery indicator might change between versions and then it breaks . Jailbroken devices are a whole other can of worms . I know how to get 1 % resolution on devices with a private API but you ca n't get such an app on the store so distribution is going to be limited . BTW your terminology is a bit confusing . " Current " would be the right term , less commonly " amperage " . I had to read a couple of times through to work it out , I thought you were talking about music volume at first .
It 's not that easy since iPhoto uses a database to track the files . When you trash the file , it simply removes the reference to that photo in whatever events and albums it used to be included . It makes a reference to the original and modified files , so they do n't actually get moved into a folder that you can get a quick estimate on the total trash size . These pointers to a photo are so small that they are a rounding error compared even to the size of a small thumbnail of your photo . The best way is to just get an estimate how large the typical picture you take is and see how much space a thousand of them take . You 'll then be able to know if emptying the trash has any chance on making a difference size wise .
Font Book is an application , not a font format . Some fonts that appear in Font Book are True Type fonts . For those that are not , the question is about converting that specific format . To find the file for a particular font , select it in Font Book , control-click it , and select " Show in Finder " . You can then see what the format is on the file .
Apple does not offer any insurance like that with Applecare . I think Dell only offers it because replacing a piece of equipment is ultimately really cheap for them , but Apple does n't play Dell 's game ( and that is probably part of the reason why you purchased an Apple product ) . Going by the fact that you are in the USA , I think this would depend on the type of damages for which you are seeking insurance , which you do n't specify in your question . Renter 's or home insurance would protect against theft from your home ( rent or own , respectively ) . Damage incurred while being on the road would probably fall under some kind of business insurance , though I 'd imagine you would pay a pretty hefty penny for that level of care no matter who you call . I think your best course action would be to call your insurance company and see what they have to offer that best suits your particular needs .
So it looks like the Console application is the only way to " view the logs " , so to speak . I launched it from the Finder under " Applications/Utilities " . It is rather sparse , but it does have information regarding the update . I am having more success watching the progress of Software Update by executing it from the command line of a terminal . This I launched as I still do n't expect it to complete , but am hopeful that I can get a better clue as to why it is failing . Currently there are 4 packages called out in / Library/Updates , one of which is likely the source of my problems : Finally , it looks like you can actually tail the install log as So I now know how to watch the thing , but why is n't it completing ?
After a bit of research ( in the stores themselves , using Google , and in the Apple Developer Program resources ) , I 'm rather sure no list of these is available from Apple themselves or from any third party . I found the best ways to find the apps tagged as " Essentials , " is to look in these places : Both the Mac App Store and the iTunes App Store have a link on their front page called " New to the ( Mac ) App Store ? " Most apps listed there , which are not games , have the " Essentials " badge . It 's not the way to find them all though , as e.g. the WolframAlpha app you mentioned is not listed on that page in the iTunes Store . There are also some apps which do n't have the badge , e.g. Shazam is tagged as " Editors ' Choice , " but not " Essentials " in the Mac App Store . The iTunes App Store also has a link " App Collections . " Although the page this link leads to is titled " Essentials App Collections , " quite a number of the apps listed in the collections do n't have the " Essentials " badge . On the other hand , you can find a lot of " Essentials " this way . My impression is the difference between the " Essentials " tag and e.g. " Editors ' Choice " is not very well defined , and just picked by a specific Apple store editor . And I noticed some of those apps may be only essential to a very specific crowd . E.g. the djay 2 app , also tagged " Essentials , " is most definitely the best and most popular DJ app for the iPad out there , but it 's only essential to a select group . In the end , although there is no definitive list , going though the various collections made by Apple editors , will lead you to a lot of " Essential " apps .
Select the song in iTunes and type & #x 21E7 ; + & #x 2318 ; + R to trigger Show in Finder . Alternatively , you can also right-click the item in iTunes and choose this option from the contextual menu . From there , you can navigate up the folder hierarchy by holding the & #x 2318 ; - key and clicking on the folder in the window title bar . You might also want to enable Show Path bar in finder .
Actually , if you just want to remove the " @me " from the " from " drop down when creating an email ( I found this excruciatingly annoying ) , go to Preferences , Account Information , and then in the Email Address field , delete the " @me " address , so that only your cool . Mac is in there .
Personal Hotspot is designed for sharing a cellular data connection , not for acting as a wireless access point or router . This means that multiple devices connected to the same iOS device can not connect to one another - they can only access the Internet ( assuming the cellular data connection is active ) . Unfortunately I ca n't find any Apple documentation to confirm this , but have seent his from personal experience . Your best solution is to purchase a portable wireless access point and connect all of your devices to that .
This should do the trick : Edit your contact card on your phone ( in the Contacts application ) ; Change the label of your old address to anything you want ; Set the label of your new address to " home "
I believe the solution to the problem is to prevent Mail.app from tracking Previous Recipients . To permanently disable this feature you have to use this terminal command : Once you 've done that , make sure you delete your Previous Recipients history . To do this , in Mail.app , open up Previous Recipients window ( Windows > Previous Recipients ) , select all existing records present there and hit " Remove From List " . From now on , your Address Book will not get updated by Mail.app . Note , that this will change the way address autocompletion works in Mail.app . From now on only addresses present in your Address Book ( and optionally in LDAP if configured ) will be auto-completed . Previous Recipients which are not present in your Address Book will not be auto-completed . The whole problem seems to be quite unusual for Apple standards . A hidden and undocumented sync feature , with no obvious way to disable .
I believe that <URL> is exactly what you are looking for . The only downside is that Rubbernet can not distinguish between LAN traffic and WAN traffic . It sounds like you are looking at one computer , so that should n't be an issue . There is a demo available on their website , or you can buy it from the <URL> for US$ 25 , which seems to be a pretty good deal since they want $ 29.99 ( about US$ 42 ) for a single user copy or $ 49.99 ( almost $ 69 ) for a " family pack " if you buy through their website . ( Hat tip to <URL> for bringing it to my attention a few months ago . ) If you want something cheaper , <URL> might suit you too .
You can store the contents of your current Address Book in an archive ( . abbu ) restore the contents of the old file . purge the entries you do n't want to keep export the remaining ones the current archive file ( created in step 1 ) import the file from step 4
Several things . Open <URL> and you can see / download the full resolution photo . Then for the same photo - choose File - > Export - > Export Unmodified Original and compare the metadata and size difference between what came from your App and from the " truth " directly from the cloud . ( Dragging or normal exports seem to be a different resolution than either the internal reduced version or the full , unmodified original in my experience . ) As to monitoring thing , that 's easy too . Open the terminal app and use this command to monitor all cloud file operations up to and down from the cloud . Like many terminal command line tools , you need to send the exit signal or close the window/app to get it to exit . Control and C is that command . Two follow on items , the Photos 1.1 is a bit better , so you might upgrade your OS and you can also pause the download if you wish in the iCloud preferences for Photos . It lets things stabilize so you can see what you have and not be testing as things change/download from the cloud .
No , it is flash memory soldered onto the main circuit board and can not be changed . It is not similar to devices with removable/upgradeable storage at all . In this case " no user-serviceable parts inside " would be pretty close to the truth . <URL> has a great iPhone 4S tear down if you 'd like a complete tour of the internals . They have done the same to many devices if you explore a bit , very interesting .
If I get it right , you want to monitor all file-system operations of your app when you launch it and when it 's running ? Rather than finding each and every byte that this program has ever written to your hard-drive . For the first case I have two recommendations : <URL> Instruments.app from / Developer/Applications / ( you need <URL> for that ) Choosing " File Activity " from the templates Supplement from 2011-12-22 And for the command-line , copied from <URL> Shows you all of the files that are being accessed on your system by a particular process ( by passing its PID )
I assume you are referring to the notice that comes up in Terminal " You 've got mail " Create a file . forward in your home directory . ( that 's a period and the word forward with no space . In it write the address you want the mail forwarded to . This file has to be owned and readable by your userid . Jobs run by cron by default mail their output to the owner of the crontab file . This can be overridden by specifying the option MAILTO=userid@somewhere.com at the top of the file . See man crontab for details . The second only forwards the details of jobs run from that particular crontab . If you have sandboxed services that have individual crontabs on a user basis ( E.g. . You have a database service that runs a consitency check on the database at 2:30 every morning , and runs that service as user mysql , then you have to add the line to mysql 's crontab . General best practice for email that goes to non-real users is to forward it to a role first . E.g. All the machines in your network send their system email to sysadmin@mydomain.com Then on a central server you forward sysadmin 's mail to a real person . This makes it much easier at vacation time to temporarily forward email to your temp sysadmin .
end question
start question
Is there an app that will scan a document and upload it to Google Docs ?
<URL> [ iTunes link ] from <URL> . According to <URL> , it integrates with Google Docs and lets you use Google Docs OCR to convert scans into editable text files on your Google account .
It 's not exactly the style used by the old Control Strip , but <URL> hides the menu extra icons , and show them in a little window that appears when clicking on its menu extra icon . Lets you tidy your menu bar apps how you want . See your menu bar apps when you want . Hide the apps you need to run , but do not need to see . Have the clean looking menu bar you want . Rearrange your menu bar items as you wish . For each icon shown in the Menu Bar , it let you decide where the icon should be shown ( Bartender Bar versus Manu Bar ) , and how long the item should be shown when it is updated .
Two of the best apps for this are <URL> and <URL> . Cloud app has an option to automatically upload screenshots ( image courtesy of Softpedia ) . It is very drag and drop friendly and pastes the URL to your clipboard for convenience . Skitch is a little more heavy on the screen snapping controls . It 's like grab on steroids . You can quickly hide private information , point out items , and edit the snap before uploading . The free version of both are well worth it . Both have paid upgrades that are low cost , but you do n't need to pay to use either . I have also heard really good things about <URL> so you might check it out as well . Both <URL> and <URL> are available on the App Store . The two are better together - skitch is better for grabbing a great screen shot , and droplr for upload and sharing it .
You might consider searching the App Store . A few that turned up were : <URL> <URL> <URL> .
So I got the message " An error occurred " when it was nearly done . I gave up , shut my Mac down later that day , started it back up , tried the download again and it resumed from where it failed
Try this ... Save the file locally on your windows computer . Right click on the file and select rename . Remove . pages extension and enter . zip as the extension and press enter . Open the zip file and it should allow you open the file and its contents .
The Launchpad database is located at To edit it , you 'll have to use SQLite . You can do this on the command line , or with a graphic interface . See <URL> for recommendations for a GUI app .
<URL> ( full disclosure : I worked on the app at <URL> ) shows the raw pressure values from the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus 's barometer sensor . It also shows sea-level adjusted pressure to compare to weather stations around the world ( using your GPS altitude ) , and shows elevation changes based on the barometer .
I have this in my bash_profile : It uses Applescript ( which you do n't want ) to change the terminal profile . Replace the and with your own color scheme names . When you use the ssh command , the macro changes the shell theme , then runs ssh . When you exit the remote session , it changes it back . Very cool ! I tried using the shell color escape sequences like and but the remote session can and does reset them . This works great for me .
The app can do that can do what you want is <URL> . You can drag &amp; Drop files from desktop to desktop and get and push clipboards from and to other computer . The best set is to have 2 monitors ( having the remote desktop fullscreen-ed ) , so that you can stare at the two computers at the same time . If you do n't , you will have a window with the desktop of your second mac . Another advantage of this solution is to you only have one keyboard and one mouse in front of you . And you can also put the second computer away from your desk . You just need to have it connected to you network .
Sure . On your iPhone , go into Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars , select Add Account ... and add Google as Exchange ( !!! ) account . Using Google as Exchange account allows you to sync calendars and contacts . See <URL> Now , gathering together all info spread around , into a checklist format : Google Sync is only supported on Apple iOS versions 3.0 and above , because that 's when Microsoft Exchange was implemented and that 's the protocol we will use . If your business , school , or organization uses Google Apps , your administrator will first need to enable Google Sync . If you 're not , then there is no such setup - it 's enabled by default . Double check you 're using the correct gmail account - many users have more than one gmail , or google apps , with similar mails due to forwarding and often mistake this . Be sure to <URL> . Every configuration has to be done properly and it must lastly look something like this , from :
The application <URL> ( $ 5 , Many Tricks ) tracks the amount of time you spend in each application ( and each window within an application ) .
The menu for this is hidden under Edit > Find > Google Search ... . The shortcut is Option + Command + F.
The only application I can think of is <URL> ; its purpose is to use an iPone/iPod/iPad as mouse to control a Mac . One of its features allows to have some icons on the iPod/iPhone that invoke some applications on the Mac ; by default , the icons shown on the iPod/iPhone are the ones that appear in the Dock , but you can select a directory containing the applications or the scripts you want to execute . The last screenshot shows the list of icons shown when I select a directory containing other directories ; when you hover over an icon , the application shows the icon name , in the same way the Finder does . The icons with an indicator light are running applications . The server application is available from the App Store , while the application for iOS is available from the iTunes App Store .
I found this app . <URL> that allows you to setup email address to send copy of SMS content . SMS are purchased in app . Net Nanny are also bringing out an iOS app to monitor and restrict iOS devices in young persons hands . details <URL> NET NANNY FOR IOS includes Filtering ( 18 categories ) , Age-based Profiles , Safe Search , Profanity Masking , and supports Wi-Fi/3G/4G . NET NANNY SUITE FOR IOS includes all the features of Net Nanny for iOS plus Remote Administration , Reports , Custom Categories , Whitelist/Blacklist . Future releases within the next few months will include Time Controls , Custom Alerts , Reports , and device management tools such as Device Locate and Forced Ring . All new features will be auto-updated for existing users .
Specifically the browse button is disabled because there is n't a file browser ( like Windows Explorer/Finder ) on the iPhone . Most people do n't notice that , because the iOS is designed around avoiding the need for a user interface to the iPhone 's file system . For simplicity 's sake file management is turned into a programing problem instead of a user problem . For security 's sake applications ca n't directly access the documents of other applications . As Jawa mention , a lot of sites have iPhone applications to allow uploads .
No . As of version 4.5 of the kindle app for IOS in pdf searching is not available . As of version 1.10.7 of the kindle app for OS X in pdf searching is available .
Clearly : No . The simulator does not offer hardware access ( gyroscope , accelerometer , etc. ) and also , you just do n't get the feeling for your App , which is very important in iOS development . You ca n't use the gestures and you do n't know how it reacts if you work with it . so it is definitely not advisable . I tried to use the simulator in the beginning , but some frameworks do n't even run on it .
optionenter ( shiftenter on Windows ) will add the selected song to the Up Next list ( in iTunes 11.0 , this does not work in album view , but does in all other views ) . However , iTunes will always ask you if you want to clear the previous songs from the list , so an extra keystroke is needed . There are one or two drawbacks to this method , firstly : It defaults to clear the previous songs so a simple enter will not suffice and a P keystroke is needed to add the song while keeping the existing list . Secondly : In addition the added song will default to the top of the ' Up Next ' playlist as oppose to when you click to add a song ( in this instance the added song will default to the bottom of the list ) . I 'm only running Windows so I ca n't say the same ( or similar ) is true for Macs .
It all depends on how the app developers chose to implement the software . Take Dropbox as an example . It 's pretty popular and let 's you <URL> at once : In fact , I would also expect them to eventually make it automatically upload all your photos as part of their <URL> feature they are rolling out . For facebook on the other hand , you <URL> need to use a 3rd party application such as <URL> or <URL> , until Facebook change their application to allow this feature .
end question
start question
Add shortcut for multiple terminal commands ?
The following AppleScript should work , which you can save as an application and put in your Finder toolbar .
Syncing Google Contacts via CardDAV will allow you to store the relationship information in your address book entry . See <URL> for instructions .
The only way to achieve this with applications that do not have native multi-account support would be to patch the CFBundleIdentifier which is also used by the application to find passwords on keychains . You can change that by editing the Info.plist file in the application bundle . This will break the digital signature of the application , so always work on a copy . With Reeder being an application from the Mac AppStore this will break the digital signature of the application rendering it non-launchable . So you will need to remove all signs of as well . Then this might work unless the application does additional bundle checking that will prevent this . ( Which is something I do n't know in the case of Reeder . ) When that actually works , you will need to launch the application with a secondary-click ( right click , two-finger click or ctrl-click ) then selecting " Open " from the contextual menu and confirming the subsequent warning from Gatekeeper . ( I definitely can not recommend to turn off Gatekeeper completely . ) Of course you will need to do all these steps for each and every copy after each update of Reeder again . ( With the risk that Reeder may add additional checks at any time rendering this process not working anymore . ) Other solutions may be to use different RSS clients for your multiple accounts and requesting multi-account support from the developers .
You can edit in a text editor after converting it to XML : Then add entries like this to the array : You can use to see the UTIs of file types and something like to see the bundle identifiers of applications . You can apply changes to by restarting . Logging out and back in is n't enough . I also use <URL> though . I have saved a file like this ( with about 100 lines ) as : I have a launchd agent that runs automatically when is changed . You can normally use filename extensions ( like ) instead of a UTIs ( like ) to specify file types . converts the extensions to UTIs that also apply to other extensions ( like ) . For some extensions like and , the UTI depends on what application registered the extension first . The latest version of ( 1.5.1 ) only includes source code , but <URL> also includes an installer .
Window Menu > Playlist ... Opt ⌥ Cmd ⌘ P
At the moment there is not shortcut to add/remove spaces in Lion
Power Nap will receive user level data for any users that are logged in . If you have fast user switching enabled and both accounts are logged in when the Mac goes to sleep , both should get updates . If there is a bug , it could be reported , but in the light testing I 've done , everything seems to work well for users that have logged in . If the user is not logged in , updates currently do not occur ( OS X v10 .8.2 ) .
You can also set a shortcut of your choosing by adjusting Lion 's built-in keyboard preferences . If you go to System Preferences -- > Keyboard , one of the settings menus on the left side bar is for Launchpad &amp; Dock . Make sure the check box next to ' Show Launchpad ' is selected , then double click to the right under the listed shortcut to turn dock hiding on/off . You 'll see a data entry box selected , and you can then enter whatever shortcut you 'd like .
( At least on the Retina display MacBook Pro ) use the Power button the same as you previously used the Eject button . So Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power puts the display to sleep and Command ⌘ + Option ⌥ + Power puts the machine to sleep .
The only surefire way to avoid having JavaScript trap keyboard input is to disable JavaScript in the browser . I understand you 'd like to leave JavaScript on , but it is designed to pass near total control of raw key presses to the browser and not to the app once the OS hands it input data . This means you would need a specific code solution for each implementation of keyboard filtering on potentially each individual page/site to ensure arbitrary key chords like Command H get sent to Safari instead of JavaScript . See these links for an overview of how key presses are handled : <URL> <URL> <URL> The last link is a tester to show you the raw events and you will see that even a brief ⌘ Q can be trapped by JavaScript if the website developer wishes to do so .
Sorry to dig up an old question , but I had the identical issue today and this was the first result for my google search for " mac mail signature shortcut " . While these answers were n't what I was looking for , the 3rd google result was a <URL> , which offered the perfect solution . Here 's the answer : you can assign keyboard shortcuts for your email signatures , " From : " account selection , and even SMTP account from System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard Shortcuts → Application Shortcuts . To set up your shortcut , click the icon , select " Mail.app " from the Application drop down , enter the text of the signature ( or other option ) as it appears in the New Message window drop down , and give it a keyboard shortcut . Rob Griffiths , the author of the MacWorld hint , advises using ( ) in combination with your desired keys to avoid conflicts with existing Mail shortcuts , which seems smart . In my case , I created a shortcut in Mail.app for the menu title " None " ( the first option under signatures ) and assigned it the shortcut . It is now exceedingly easy for me to clear my default email signature when it does n't seem appropriate . For the purposes of illustration , here is the System Preferences → Keyboard Shortcuts pane ( it 's the last item ) : And here is what it looks like in Mail 's New Message window :
There is a second clipboard in OS X , called the kill-ring . Press Control ^ + K to " kill " ( copy ) the rest of the current line to the kill-ring , and Control ^ + Y to " yank " ( paste ) it .
If the wireless printer has joined the network , OS X should see it listed as a nearby printer . From the Print &amp; Scan pane in System Preferences , click the Plus ( ) button in the lower left , and it should show up in the popup menu . If it does n't , select " Add Other Printer or Scanner ... " In the resulting window , the " Default " Tab will show all local Bonjour printers , as well as any connected directly via USB . If you know the local IP of the printer you want to add , you can enter this in the IP tab .
In Safari 6 or newer , ShiftCmd \ or a two finger pinch invokes the " Tab View " which includes iCloud tabs . <URL>
BetterTouchTool ( starting with version 1.22 , currently available as alpha version ) let 's you assign gestures or keyboard shortcuts to trigger the native split screen .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts and there will be various shortuc setups for almost anything . If you see something that is not listed , Make a service in Automator and add it as shortcut : Here you see the service in Automator . It ai n't always have to be an AppleScript . You can chose other services from the Menu on the left . And here is a screenshot of enabling the service and assigning a shortcut by double clicking the shortucts on right , and pressing a combination of keys . <URL> is a full tutorial on services and automation as a little bonus to the question .
If minimizing windows to the application icon has not been enabled , you can unminimize all windows with a script like this : This script would unminimize the last minimized window shown in the Dock : This would unminimize all windows in the current application : You can <URL> by for example using FastScripts or Alfred .
/ usr/sbin/installer The installer command is used to install Mac OS X installer packages to a specified domain or volume . The installer command installs a single package per invocation , which is specified with the - package parameter ( - pkg is accepted as a synonym ) . It may be either a single package or a metapackage . In the case of the metapackage , the packages which are part of the default install will be installed unless disqualified by a package 's check tool ( s ) . See for the full functionality . Often is all that 's needed .
You will find <URL> solutions ( Keyboard Maestro , Karabiner , Automator Wrapper ) or <URL> ( LaunchBar/Quicksilver ) to accomplish this . Another <URL> solution is the Launcher Mode : <URL> Download , install and start Karabiner . In the menubar open Karabiner - > Preferences Search for Launcher and enable the preset . To open Activity Monitor hold OA and release A
No : the dictionary files OS X ' Dictionary app uses are read-only , and Dictionary.app does not support annotations . You can <URL> ( though that is not a trivial task ) , but not modify the existing ones .
end question
start question
Which is faster for syncing iPhone 4 with iTunes -- USB or WIFI ?
USB 2.0 is faster , but Wi-Fi is better . In practice , Wi-Fi will be superior to USB for syncing and backup since you do n't have to worry about plugging it in . It can start as soon as you enter the network , throttle itself based on CPU/iOS activity . You can even start on WiFi and connect your iOS 5 device to USB and syncing will continue at faster speeds if WiFi proves to be slow for a particular sync session . My experience is the devices can do their thing and sync in the background without me waiting for them and I 'm almost always the slowest peg in the process . :-) However , USB 2.0 speed is faster than 802.11 n both in theory and in practice . See this chart from a <URL> on relative speeds relating to Time Capsule performance . The one area where USB ( or any other wired connection whether it 's USB 2.0 , 3.0 , FireWire or Thunderbolt ) is better than Wi-Fi is <URL> . If your sync session is largely lots of little checks and no appreciable time is spent waiting for large files to transfer , then the wired connection could be much faster if your sessions are shorter than 15 to 30 seconds in length . Here 's another nice article explaining how even a slow USB 2.0 connection can be fast enough for some demanding data transfers : <URL> <URL>
I ended up signing up for iTunes Match over the weekend and I figured I 'd share my experience to anyone who had the same questions I did ... After going through and organizing my collection I came up with about 250 artists and just over 10k songs in total . I signed up for iTunes Match and it did a fantastic job of collecting the metadata , matching available songs , and uploading remaining songs . There were a few small issues with some ineligible songs and duplicates , but nothing major . I 'd say it took about 24 hours total to get everything synced up , but I 'm sure experiences vary widely here . Then after double-checking everything I just went ahead and deleted all my files in iTunes . I would click a given set of songs and then tap the delete key . When prompted , I would select NOT to delete from iCloud , but to move the local files to the trash . After I was finished I had a clean local hard drive and all my music was available for streaming from the cloud ... which is precisely what I wanted . When I enabled iTunes Match on my other computer ( which had a blank iTunes Music section ) , it took all of five seconds to sync up perfectly with my collection in the cloud . So I 'm now able to stream music from iTunes on my Macbook Pro and iMac . Those who are looking to stream to iOS might be out of luck , because from what I 've seen you have to download the songs from iCloud to your device ( although the songs will play as they are downloading ... and I suppose there is nothing to stop you from deleting the files afterward ) . But this ended up being a perfect solution for me since I primarily use Rdio now anyway . I just wanted to delete the 100GB worth of local mp3 files that were cluttering my local hard drive and iTunes Match helped me to do that and still keep my collection out there in the cloud . There still is n't a perfect solution in the music technology world just yet , but I ca n't say enough good things about services like Rdio and iTunes Match . They 've worked great for me .
" Standard 4G " is kind of a meaningless phrase . According to <URL> , disabling " LTE " means it 's limited to either CDMA 3G or HSPA + . HSPA + is supposed to have performance comparable to LTE , so I would guess that if you disable LTE and see a " 4G " icon , it means you 're getting HSPA + . <URL> confirms that Apple ( like their competitors and partners ) started using " 4G " to refer to any post-3G network , like LTE , WiMAX , and HSPA + . Anyway , most of the articles I 've found comparing power usage between HSPA + and LTE suggest that LTE has slightly lower power consumption , but it seems to be a pretty small difference . The signal strength where you are located probably has more impact than this setting . Early LTE phones apparently sucked a lot of power even when idle , but with newer phones this seems to have been improved , e.g. , <URL> claims battery life is " nearly identical " whether LTE is enabled or not . So you can try both settings and see which works better for you , but I would n't expect a huge power savings .
Open Settings > General > Reset and choose Erase All Content and Settings . This will wipe all personal data off the device ( including all apps ) and when it restarts it will be at the beginning of the wizard to set up a new device . This will not effect any other devices linked to the same iCloud account , it purely clears the current device . iOS 7 Update If you have Find My Phone enabled , disable this before performing the steps above otherwise the buyer will be contacting you to get your account to activate the phone . This can be achieved by switching the Find My iPhone option in Settings > iCloud . This process is necessary as Apple added an Activation Lock in iOS 7 . Details can be found <URL> and the support article is located <URL> .
You only have two options , and they 're both supported by all current MacBook Pro and MacBook Air models : Use a DVI splitter to spread a single DVI output across multiple monitors ( which will look like a single external monitor to the OS ) . The maximum resolution for an external monitor on all MacBook Pro or Air models is 2560 x 1600 , so your maximum for the split displays will be 1280 x 1600 each ( or maybe 2560 x 800 ) . Use a USB graphics adaptor for the third monitor , which will thus not have hardware graphic acceleration .
You can use <URL> to for example turn the right option into an extra modifier key for opening applications : See <URL> for more examples . If you have bought the Powerpack for <URL> , you can use workflows like this : Hotkeys have a short delay by default , but you can reduce it by changing the trigger behavior :
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
I ended up going with Snow Leopard because Leopard itself was slow ( SL offers countless improvements in how it is built , for Intel Macs only ) , and Tiger , as reminiscent at it would have been to use it , did n't have Time Machine ( which admittedly was n't a requirement in the original question ) . The reason why I did n't go for Lion is because I would n't be able to have it in it 's best iteration : Mountain Lion is reported as superior in speed ( but not compatible with this MacBook ) . Snow Leopard is running fast and smooth , and personally , I think it 's the best fit for this machine .
All iPhones and iPods with the Lightning connector use USB 2.0 . <URL> : The Lightning connector ... provides an interface to USB 2.0 ( for data and charging ) Also , if you look the USB end of a Lightning cable , it does n't have the additional pins for USB 3.0 . There is actually no point to having USB 3.0 , since the flash memory in iPods and iPhones is not fast enough to benefit from its speed .
Summary of solution " Create Network ... " on MacBook to create a " computer-to-computer " network ( via a right-click on the wifi icon in the main menu ) . Go to wifi settings on iPhone &amp; join network created . Either wait for IP address to show up on iPhone 's network details page or statically assign one in the range 169.254.x . y , as long as it 's not the same as the other computer 's IP address . Go to Finder ( or Path Finder ) , click Main Menu \ Go \ Connect to Server ... ( or just type ⌘ K ) to connect , then type vnc : / / 169.254.x . y , where x.y are the last two network octets you assigned statically to the iPhone or that the MacBook assigned to the iPhone . You should then be connected . Remember to be patient when connecting -- I experienced not exactly quick response times when connecting , and that was with no security ...
so I figured this out . First of , SD card and USB flash drive use different kernel in OS X , so the solution is not universal . Fist of , if you use USB flash drive : In your terminal type Type your password ( use an admin account ) , then What this does is that it unload and reload the USB storage kernel extension system wise , so it is an equivalent of unplug and replug your USB storage device after the ejection . Similarly , we can do that with SD card reader too ! Type : Tada ! Be careful tho , once you unload the kernel and forget to reload the kernel , you will not be able to read the device at all even if you physically unplug and plugin the device .
<URL> Google Calendar Synchronization -- Sync iCal with Google Calendar for online read-write access to your calendars from any computer , anywhere . Requirements Mac OS X 10.4 , or Mac OS X 10.5 , or Mac OS X 10.6
OS updates will now happen over the air . The only reasons would be to sync a new iPhoto event/album or to sync content that you added manually ( ripped CD ) . But outside of that , iOS does n't require syncing .
I 'm not exactly sure what you mean by sticky notes , but I have been using the free " GoTasks " for quite some time . I 've found that it is by far the best integration into google tasks , and you can leave little notes with each separate task .
It depends . I assume your Mac does has USB 3.0 support since you asked the question . Time Machine target does not need to be very fast , since Time Machine only backup all your files for the first time , it 's just delta ( changes ) it backups after that . So if you delete a file , and create a new file , it backup just those two changes . But of course the faster the drive , the faster the initial backup . Media drive do n't have to be fast . Even a 1080p video wo n't exceed like 2MBps , and most USB 2.0 drive can easily go up to 20 ~ 30 MBps ( real world ) It 's your choice . Again , you need to copy all the files to your external drive , and it takes time . If they 're enclosure , then problem solved . The initial backup and media copy can all be done with the USB 3.0 enclosure , and then just choose which goes to which based on your mood . My personal experience : USB 2.0 3.5 " 28 MBps USB 3.0 2.5 " 55 MBps USB 3.0 3.5 " 110 MBps All enclosures , I built them myself !
From Wikipedia : <URL> Although they are not yet at the power levels to replace xenon flash devices in still cameras , LEDs ( specifically , high current flash LEDs ) have recently been used as flash sources in camera phones . LEDs are expected to approach the power levels of xenon in the near future and may replace built-in xenon flashes in still cameras . The major advantages of LEDs over xenon include low voltage operation , higher efficiency and extreme miniaturization . So , now that we know that we have a LED ( Light Emitting Diode ) in there , let 's see how much should that live ( according the the super-experts @ wikipedia ) : <URL> ( read all that for more info ) Short answer : " Typical lifetimes quoted are 25,000 to 100,000 hours but heat and current settings can extend or shorten this time significantly . " Now do you think your iPhone will last 25,000 hours ( worst case scenario for the LED ) ? That 's a little bit less than three years . It 's certainly possible for an iPhone to last much more than that ( I still use a 1s-gen iPhone ) , however , I highly doubt that you 're going to use it with the flash ON , for three years , non-stop . :)
Siri is only available on the iPhone 4S and only fully supported within the United States at the moment . Unfortunately the page <URL> on Siri does not make that extremely clear , apart from only mentioning the iPhone 4S . I ca n't find an official source on the Apple site other then that page that specifically says Siri is only available on the 4S . Siri supports various languages , however some functionality , like local business searches , will only work in the United States at the moment .
I 'll check my computer when I get home , but everytime I update the ratings on my iPhone there is definitely network activity ( The network spinner is displayed everytime I change the rating ) . So it is definitely updating the iTunes Match library . Whether it updates the PC at home I 'll have to see . I 'm still waiting for it to upload about 600 songs . Edit : I confirmed that ratings and play count definitely are updated right away . PC to device changes take a little longer . I had one song disappear from my phone on my way to work because I accidentally removed it from match the night before and it took some time to propagate .
According to the major WiFi-calling provider <URL> following Apple phones are <URL> : iPhone 5c iPhone 5s and iPhone 6 ( + )
My girlfriend dropped her iPhone 4 in a glass of coke ( it submerged completely ) . Afterwards , she experienced the same symptoms as you . To fix it , she put the phone in a bowl of rice , and took a blow dryer to it once or twice a day . I believe she also got some electrical contact cleaner and cleaned the connection on the bottom that you plug the USB cable into . It took about a week , but the phone worked perfectly afterwards ( and has been working perfectly ever since ) .
end question
start question
Go to Line keyboard shortcut in Python editor IDLE ?
IDLE > Preferences ( cmd + , ) > Keys > goto-line > Get New Keys for Selection
In System Preferences , go to Keyboard " Keyboard Shortcuts " Services Find the service on the list . To the right of the service name , double-click . Enter the desired shortcut .
Aw crud , there are all sorts of " move focus to " commands in the Navigate menu that I somehow missed earlier ... The combo for " Move Focus to Editor ... " is Cmd-J , for example .
I could n't find a way to disable it either , but if you click on the shortcut key combination , you can change it to something you 'll never press . ( I used shift-control-option-command-space )
Try <URL> . I replaced the built-in apps switcher with this utility which lets me to view full screen windows including a feature to search active windows by title .
The default shortcut for showing the Desktop is : ⌘ Cmd-F3 Technically , the official name is ⌘ Cmd-Mission Control but unless you know what " Mission Control " is , you would end up searching for that as well . <URL> Apple has a really good <URL> - I keep this bookmarked for quick reference .
There sure is . When you have a song selected , you can press &#8984; + return and it will allow you to quickly edit the song title .
The only application I 've found that supports that on 10.8 is <URL> . It does n't create new spaces though . <URL> stopped working in 10.7
<URL> For current Mac keyboard layouts . Control + Shift + Eject works for older keyboard layouts that still include the Eject key . <URL> explains some alternate solutions as well . Also , if you have " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " set to immediately in System Preferences - > Security &amp; Privacy , it will ask you for your password after doing this .
I guess you may either restore from your Time Machine backup , or copy it back from another Mac running the same 10.7.2
It 's there , it just goes away sometimes . While the " Sync " button used to be reliably present in the same location in iTunes 10 , it -- as well as others -- now vanishes occasionally in what ( presumably ) is a context sensitive manner .
Not sure if you are asking what they are in Safari . CMD + [ Go back ( or cmd + alt +5 ) CMD + ] Go forward ( or cmd + alt +6 ) But you can make it work using Terminal with following ( Thanks to @Tetsujin research ) Terminal command to re-enable Backspace/Delete as " Back-Button " : Quit Safari , then copy &amp; paste the command in a Terminal window ( Applications → Utilities ) and hit enter . Quit Terminal and restart Safari . Terminal command to undo the set preference :
There is no way to do it through the VPN connector . This setting is determined by the administrator of Cisco/IPSEC VPN endpoint . This not to say that you could not write a script that monitors network traffic and disconnects the client after a prescribed idle time - just that it is not available as a setting or attribute of the VPN connection on the client side .
Save in AppleScript Editor and assign a shortcut in <URL> or <URL> :
If you have ' Use all F1 , F2 keys as standard functions ' unchecked , that 's the behaviour . With or without the Cmd key , F10 mutes . Incidentally , so does Ctrl/F10 or Shift/F10 . <URL>
Finally figured it out . I had an expired set of " AirWatch " MDM profiles on it that were blocking the camera . Removed those and the camera came back !
You can find it under Applications/Utilities . <URL> From there , you can drag it to your Dock to create an alias . <URL> for additional info on making the most of the Dock . To remove the Question Mark , drag it off the Dock until you see " Remove " then release .
In order to assign a keyboard shortcut to this script , you could create a service in Automator . You must change to . Then add and paste your script . Save it on . Once saved , you must go to and you can find out under . Assign your preferred shortcut there .
Go to to add a shortcut , select or add Numbers as the Application , and put " Fill Down " ( exact , no quotes ) in the command spot and then assign your shortcut ( Ctrl + D )
You do n't get invisibility using Apple 's Messages app on OS X. <URL> , so perhaps it 's a limitation of their API and only something you can set using their web app . They get to serve you ads when you are on the web , but not on a client so perhaps that was a factor in deciding to code that function in one place over the other . Apple 's Messages app on OS X will set an invisible status for AIM accounts , but not for Google Talk , so it 's less like a Messages oversight as an account/API design issue from Google .
end question
start question
Will Pages/Keynote/Numbers be free for old macs ?
It appears that everyone that owns an older copy of iWork for iOS gets a free upgrade whether or not your version came from a retail CD or the Mac App Store . If you do n't already own iWork - you will have to pay for either a new Mac or the apps piecemeal on the App Store . The above summary is my understanding of this MacWorld article that includes calls with Apple Press relations and an " on-the-record " confirmation that all owners of iWork should get free upgrades despite some glitches in the initial roll out today . <URL>
Yes - all your apps will be removed from their respective App Stores if your developer program membership expires . If your Apple Developer Program membership expires , you will still have access to iTunes Connect . However , your apps will no longer be available for download on the App Store and you will not be able to submit new apps or updates . Source : <URL> Attempting to log in to iTunes Connect will show the following message , but all of the services are still accessible .
Most software has an <URL> associated with it -- which is essentially a contract between the licensor and purchaser , that defines how the established purchaser can use the software along with the liability of the licensor . EULA 's are deployed in many different ways ; often you might never see or know where to look for one within an application and/or on the developers website . Each application has it 's own agreement ( s ) , rules , and fine print . For every app you have it 's likely to have an agreement that is completely different from another . I had very tough time finding the EULA for Comic Life , since the website contained nothing that I could find . I eventually found it in the application under > . I downloaded the version , so the eula associated with my version likely differs from yours . I 'll spare you the entire agreement , since it 's roughly 2383 words long . Here 's Section ( B ) : B. Comic Life Single User License . This License allows you to install and use the plasq Software ( whether trial or full version ) on all your personal computers . These are computers that are exclusively used by you alone . So for this version you would need to be the only person in your classroom using the application or the computers , which seems a bit comical really :D
I did a google search finding this thread because I had the same issue as Bill Nace . I didnt find the answer anywhere so I thought I would share how I resolved it after trial and error . Keynote seems to open the presentation on the display with the highest resolution . Since my ' projector ' display was the largest resolution when I would open a new keynote file it would open on that screen and then I would have to drag it back to the ' laptop ' screen for any editing before starting the presentation . I increased the ' laptop ' screen resolution and the keynote files started opening on that screen .
The best commercial packages of themes for the iWork apps , in my experience , are those from <URL> ( under Design ) They produce themes for both Pages and Keynote , as well as animation and art packs . For free templates , <URL> has a ton of Pages templates , and some decent Numbers templates as well for basic use . <URL> also produces commercial themes , in addition to having some freebies , and an excellent blog and collection of links for other sources of high quality stuff .
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
I just tried it with a QuickTime movie and was able to run the exported . ppt in PowerPoint as well . But this is probably no guarantee that it will work in all cases given the multitude of video formats , codecs , drivers etc. . So in your case you probably get the best results if you start with a specific video format/codec on the Mac side ( QuickTime and either MPEG4 or H. 264 would be my first choice ) do a test run yourself , maybe involving various target PCs ( if this is a scenario you have to be able to work with ) stick to the setup once you have proven it to work
You can download the <URL> from <URL> page . It 's definitively not free of either license or copyright . The licensing terms stipulate only running it on Apple hardware and furthermore restricted on how to use it with virtual machines on top of Apple hardware . You need to also consider the <URL> if you download the free-of-cost Mavericks software from that store . Below is a relevant extract from the OS X Mavericks licence : 2 . Permitted License Uses and Restrictions . A. Preinstalled and Single-Copy Apple Software License . Subject to the terms and conditions of this License , unless you obtained the Apple Software from the Mac App Store or under a volume license , maintenance or other written agreement from Apple , you are granted a limited , non - exclusive license to install , use and run one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software on a single Apple - branded computer at any one time . For example , these single-copy license terms apply to you if you obtained the Apple Software preinstalled on Apple-branded hardware . B. Mac App Store License . If you obtained a license for the Apple Software from the Mac App Store , then subject to the terms and conditions of this License and as permitted by the Mac App Store Usage Rules set forth in the App Store Terms and Conditions ( <URL> ) ( " Usage Rules " ) , you are granted a limited , non-transferable , non-exclusive license : ( i ) to download , install , use and run for personal , non-commercial use , one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software directly on each Apple-branded computer running OS X Mountain Lion , OS X Lion or OS X Snow Leopard ( " Mac Computer " ) that you own or control ; ( ii ) If you are a commercial enterprise or educational institution , to download , install , use and run one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software for use either : ( a ) by a single individual on each of the Mac Computer ( s ) that you own or control , or ( b ) by multiple individuals on a single shared Mac Computer that you own or control . For example , a single employee may use the Apple Software on both the employee 's desktop Mac Computer and laptop Mac Computer , or multiple students may serially use the Apple Software on a single Mac Computer located at a resource center or library ; and ( iii ) to install , use and run up to two ( 2 ) additional copies or instances of the Apple Software within virtual operating system environments on each Mac Computer you own or control that is already running the Apple Software , for purposes of : ( a ) software development ; ( b ) testing during software development ; ( c ) using OS X Server ; or ( d ) personal , non-commercial use . The grant set forth in Section 2B ( iii ) above does not permit you to use the virtualized copies or instances of the Apple Software in connection with service bureau , time-sharing , terminal sharing or other similar types of services . Bold added for highlighting purposes ; the bolding is not present in the original licence .
Erasing All Contents and Settings ( what most people call " factory reset " ) does not change/remove your operating system . Whatever OS you had installed prior to the reset will remain after your iPhone reboots .
Apple <URL> the following Macs will run Mountain Lion : iMac ( Mid 2007 or newer ) MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Mid/Late 2007 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or newer ) Mac mini ( Early 2009 or newer ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or newer ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) So the complement of this list are not supported to run Mountain Lion ( as far as I can tell ; edit this list to add or subtract models as appropriate ; you may be able to get it running on an unsupported machine ) : Macintosh 128K Macintosh 512K Macintosh 128K ( revised ) Macintosh XL Macintosh Plus Macintosh 512Ke Macintosh Plus ( Platinum ) Macintosh SE Macintosh II Macintosh IIx Macintosh SE/30 Macintosh IIcx Macintosh SE FDHD Macintosh IIci Macintosh Portable Macintosh IIfx Macintosh LC Macintosh Classic Macintosh IIsi Macintosh Portable ( backlit screen ) Macintosh Classic II Quadra 700 Quadra 900 PowerBook 100 PowerBook 140 PowerBook 170 Macintosh LC II Quadra 950 PowerBook 145 Macintosh IIvi Macintosh IIvx PowerBook 160 PowerBook 180 PowerBook Duo 210 PowerBook Duo 230 Macintosh LC III / III + Macintosh Color Classic Centris 610 Centris 650 Quadra 800 PowerBook 165c Workgroup Server 80 Workgroup Server 95 PowerBook 145b PowerBook 180c Macintosh LC 520 Workgroup Server 60 Centris / Quadra 660AV Quadra 840AV PowerBook 165 Macintosh Color Classic II Macintosh TV Quadra 605 Quadra 610 Quadra 650 PowerBook Duo 250 PowerBook Duo 270c Macintosh LC 550 Macintosh LC 575 Power Macintosh 6100 Power Macintosh 7100 Power Macintosh 8100 Workgroup Server 6150 Workgroup Server 8150 Workgroup Server 9150 PowerBook 520/c PowerBook 540/c PowerBook 550 PowerBook Duo 280 PowerBook Duo 280c Quadra 630 PowerBook 150 Power Macintosh 6200 / 6300 Macintosh LC 580 Performa 5200 Power Macintosh 9500 Power Macintosh 7200 Power Macintosh 7500 Power Macintosh 8500 PowerBook 190 PowerBook 5300 PowerBook Duo 2300c Workgroup Server 7250 Workgroup Server 8550 Performa 5260 / 5300 Performa 5400 Power Macintosh 7600 Performa 6360 Performa 6400 Power Macintosh 4400 PowerBook 1400 Power Macintosh 5500 Power Macintosh 6500 Power Macintosh 7300 Power Macintosh 8600 Power Macintosh 9600 PowerBook 3400 Twentieth Anniversary Macintosh Workgroup Server 7350 Workgroup Server 9650 PowerBook 2400c Power Macintosh G3 desktop Power Macintosh G3 minitower PowerBook G3 Power Macintosh G3 AIO Macintosh Server G3 PowerBook G3 series iMac G3 Power Macintosh G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) Macintosh Server G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) PowerBook G3 ( " Lombard " ) iBook Macintosh Server G4 iMac ( slot loading ) Power Mac G4 Graphite PowerBook ( " Pismo " ) Power Mac G4 Cube iBook ( FireWire ) PowerBook G4 Titanium iBook ( white ) Power Mac G4 Quicksilver Server G4 Quicksilver iMac G4 15 " iBook ( 14 " ) eMac Xserve iMac G4 17 " Power Mac G4 MDD Macintosh Server G4 MDD PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 12 " ) PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 17 " ) Xserve slot loading Xserve Cluster Node Power Mac G5 PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 15 " ) iBook G4 ( 12 " / 14 " ) iMac G4 20 " Xserve G5 Xserve Cluster Node G5 Xserve Power Mac G5 FX iMac G5 17 " iMac G5 20 " iMac Mac mini Power Mac G5 dual core iMac Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 15 " ) Mac mini Core Solo Mac mini Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 17 " ) MacBook ( Late 2008 plastic ) Xserve ( Intel ) ( Late 2006 ) MacBook ( Late 2006 ) Mac mini Core 2 Duo MacBook ( Late 2007 ) Xserve Harpertown MacBook Penryn 1st generation MacBook Air ( early 2008 )
Please explain : are you attempting to update your TV 's firmware ? If so , check the TV 's manual - I 'm pretty sure it 's done by loading from your Macbook to a USB drive . HDMI over ethernet is a system built to provide a digital television signal over two cat5 cables . It requires extra hardware on each end , and is quite likely not what you are looking for . If all you need is that internet connection , go to the " Sharing " preferences and turn on internet sharing by sharing your WIFI connection and checking the Ethernet box . Now connect the laptop and TV 's ethernet ports .
I suspect it will be serial number based , or model number based . As the new models will no doubt all have serial numbers and indeed model identifiers ( iMac 9,1 for example ) that will allow them to clearly identify which machines are applicable , and allow the upgrade as appropriate . In previous " up-to-date " schemes it has been this way , and not reliant in any way on what is installed on your drive . If you are transferring to a different boot volume , I would recommend using an image file rather than Time Machine . You can pick up a USB enclosure for your SSD , image the existing drive onto it , and then simply swap them over - this is how I have done things in similar scenarios .
Not really , or at least not to the same level that Windows does .
The Yosemite Installer package contains all the divers for all supported models . You are good to go for multiple uses on multiple systems .
Not very good solutions , but it works for me . I deleted all profiles , certificates . Then I generated new profiles , certificates and install it .
I have been following Swype for some time , and the only thing they have officially said was one little peep in Reuters back in June about looking towards iPhone development . In the article they alluded towards a developer running Swype on his iPhone , however no releases or leaks are anywhere to be found . <URL> My guess ... just a guess ... is that they are trying to work around the need to jailbreak your iPhone in order to run it . If you follow the Engadget blog , you 'll be among the first to know . <URL>
Since Apple is using the same CPU and mostly intel logic boards , as long as you get the CAS latency and other details exactly perfect , it 's hard to imagine you would buy the wrong memory . Perhaps it boils down to support and testing . If the vendor literally spends more money testing and supporting the Mac memory , it 's their privilege to sell it for more . If they do n't and are just looking to maximize profit , that happens too . Look at Amazon charging different price based on who they think you are , what you have bought , etc. . . Same with airlines that charge different prices based on cookies set from previous flight searches . In the end - all that matters is you understand the return policy and how to test things once you get the RAM . Then it 's just a calculation , you estimate how much is your time is worth and you minimize your transaction cost - pay more for an easy buy that saves you time or spend more time looking for and researching a bargain . Perhaps the seller has decided Mac users value their time more highly and you can score a deal by saying you are buying PC RAM . Happy RAM hunting .
No - macs ship with one license to Lion - for that mac . If you buy an upgrade outright , that applies to all your macs .
It 's absolutely fine , it 's essentially a standalone application that you can uninstall again anytime . Except when you 're running Inkscape , you 'll never know it 's there . In fact , XQuartz used to come on the OS X install DVD ( though it was n't installed by default ) , but like Java and Flash , Apple just prefer not to package and ship those things with the OS any more , and require you to install it separately direct from the developer . If you 're still not sure , there is a <URL> that does n't require XQuartz , but it was a little buggy last time I tried .
According to <URL> , Pages '13 ca n't open '08 documents . The iWork '13 apps on the Mac can open iWork '09 files but not iWork '08 files . If you still have a copy of Pages '09 you could save the documents in '09 format and then use '13 to save them in '13 format .
end question
start question
What was the first MacBook that people were able to install Windows on ?
Apple introduced Bootcamp in 2006 as a beta for OSX Tiger . ( <URL> ) So it 's since 2006 that the Macbooks are able to install Windows . However a <URL> specify that the oldest Macbooks are n't compatible with Windows 7 . NB : Notice that laptops powered by PPC processors were called iBooks &amp; PowerBooks . Macbooks ( Pro ) are only powered by Intel processors .
I created a bootable USB stick with my Windows Vista DVD . I followed the instructions on <URL> .
1 ) That entirely depends on what you want to do . There are a bunch of app recommendation discussions here based around games , productivity , etc. . Rather than rehash them , I 'd suggest searching those out . 2 ) Plug it into a USB port on your computer . The phone also comes with a wall adapter for the USB cable so you can charge it from a wall socket . 3 ) Do n't stick it in the oven or the freezer and you should be fine .
The <URL> lists several problems on 13 October . Others have said they had the same problem , so maybe one of the troubleshooting pages linked from the <URL> page might help ? Later : Yes , it does help . <URL> lists specific error messages and says of yours : " There was a problem enabling iCloud Backup . " There are various reasons that this can occur . If you receive this alert , wait and try again later . If you receive a more specific alert message as well , make any required adjustments and try again . If you continue to receive this generic alert , <URL>
A different user recently posted a similar question on <URL> . Since my answer was accepted as correct , I will repost it below . The Basic steps to install 64 bit Windows 10 are as follows . I assume here that your current configuration is the default " Out of the Box " OS X installation . Download the correct Boot Camp Support Software for your Mac . Transfer these files to a FAT formatted flash drive . For your Mac , use the same software as for a 64 bit Windows 7 installation . These files can be found at <URL> Use the Disk Utility to reduce the size of your OS X partition . In the empty space , create a FAT formatted partition with the label BOOTCAMP . Burn the Windows 10 iso file to a DVD . You can use the Disk Utility to do this . I always use a RW DVD . This takes longer to burn , but is reusable . Restart the Mac with the DVD in the optical drive . Hold down the alt/option key and select the DVD icon with the label Windows . Install Windows to the Boot Camp partition . You will have to tell the installer to reformat this partition as NTFS . DO NOT CHANGE THE PARTITIONING DURING THE INSTALLATION PROCESS . At some point during the installation , the computer will reboot . When it does , it will boot to OS X . This is to be expected . Go to System Preferences and instruct OS X to boot back to Windows . The installation process will continue . After the Windows installation has completed , install the Boot Camp Support software stored on the flash drive . To accomplish this , you will have to right click on the icon and select Compatibility Mode . I do not consider the process to be that difficult . The most challenging step is creating the FAT formatted partition labeled BOOTCAMP . If something goes wrong , you are in danger of loosing data on your OS X partition .
Here is <URL> article : You 'll need Mac OS 10.5 and Mac OS 10.6 ( recommended ) . 10.7 I believe is also supported . If you have the following graphics cards , WebGL is unsupported and is disabled by default : NVIDIA GeForce FX Go5200 ATI Radeon HD2400 ATI Radeon 2600 series ATI Radeon X1900 GeForce 7300 GT So , yes , <URL> for WebGL to work .
Their first product was the <URL> computer , hand-built by Steve Wozniak and first demonstrated in 1976 . You 'll find plenty of details about Apple 's early years in <URL> of the Apple , Inc <URL> .
Yes it is possible but it will not be easy . You will probably need to jailbreak your iPad and follow similar procedures when installing Android .
It 's a real-time scanning process by <URL> that scans your computer 's running processes in the background . The parent process is so that when you accidentally kill the process , it gets restarted .
Indeed , it will let you download the last compatible version if you already have the app in your purchase history . You can add the app to your purchase history using iTunes on your computer , since iTunes is version-agnostic . Once you 've downloaded the app on iTunes , it will be in your purchase history and attempting to download it again on your device should prompt you to accept an older version of the app .
This <URL> you 're running . Leopard : <URL> Tiger : <URL> Newer Macs can use ... Snow Leopard/Lion : <URL>
This is what I found to work : Create USB stick using Apple Bootcamp Assistant ( and keep it in your machine for the duration of the installation ) . Follow the entire process ( including specifying the size of your Windows partition ) . When Bootamp Assitant reboots your machine you need to interrupt the installation by holding option until you get a choice of what disk to boot from and select Macintosh HD . Open Disk Utility , select the drive above Macintosh HD ( it should be specifying the size of the disk as a whole [ for me it is ) then choose the partitions tab . Note : If you merely select Macintosh HD you will not see the Partitions tab . Important : If you partition the drive any other way with the same partition type it will not work , I initially could n't find the partitions tab so I did something similar , but the installation process merely failed later . So you must do it this way . Once in the partitions drive , the BOOTCAMP partition should be at the bottom . Select this partition by clicking on it . Ensure it is the highlighted partition then press minus to remove it . Click apply on the bottom right to save the changes . Now press plus to add a new partition . Select this new partition and rename it to BOOTCAMP and change the partition type to ExFAT . Click apply again to save the changes . Reboot you Mac , press option again during the boot and this time select the Windows device with the USB logo on it . It 's orange . The install process will start . If you happen to have a Windows 8 key but are installing Windows 8.1 , your key wo n't work , use a generic key from <URL> to get by the installation ( you can change your product key once you have Windows running from Settings ) . When it gets to the list of partition you should see four of them . You want the last one . It will say it can not install on the partition , so make sure the 4th partition is selected and format it . Once done , you should be able to continue the installation process . During installation it will recommend default settings . Specify advanced configuration and turn off Auto Updates . It is recommend it remain off until the bootcamp drivers are installed . When it is finished prepping the install it will reboot . It will reboot 2 or 3 times during installation . Each time it reboots you will need to intervene by pressing option but from now on select the silver Windows hard drive . Do not unplug your bootable USB until windows has been completely installed ( BootCamp drivers are used from it ) . At the end of the installation it will prompt you to install the Apple Bootcamp Drivers , do it . Sources : <URL> <URL>
Sounds like you need a disk visualizer . There are several out there : <URL> ( free ) Disk Inventory X is a disk usage utility for Mac OS X 10.3 ( and later ) . It shows the sizes of files and folders in a special graphical way called " treemaps " . It is my personal favorite , as it is really simple and easy to use , as well as the great price of free ! <URL> ( $ 20 , currently on sale for $ 9.99 ) DaisyDisk scans your disks and presents their content as interactive maps where you can easily spot unusually large files and remove them to get more free space . The map gives you an overview of your data , so you always know what your hard disks are filled with . I do n't have personal experience with DaisyDisk , but it has been highly recommended by many people , including members of Ask Different . <URL> ( free ) GrandPerspective is a small utility application for Mac OS X that graphically shows the disk usage within a file system . It can help you to manage your disk , as you can easily spot which files and folders take up the most space . It uses a so called tree map for visualisation . Each file is shown as a rectangle with an area proportional to the file 's size . Files in the same folder appear together , but their placement is otherwise arbitrary . Again , no personal experience , but highly recommended by others .
You can find some information about the guts of an iPod Shuffle <URL> . Also because the selling point of a Shuffle is price ( and portability ) while still maintaining the Apple quality I do n't think Apple would put much more components into it than what is absolutely necessary .
The installation disk coming with a computer is for that computer model only , and I would not expect this to work . If your MacBook runs 10.5 you are eligible for the 10.6 upgrade for $ 29 . I can highly recommend it , if nothing else , for the fixes in Time Machine .
The bootcamp FAQ is helpful for these sorts of questions <URL> <URL>
It depends on how much you care about your warranty . If you want to keep your warranty valid , Apple says you can upgrade your hard drive and your RAM -- and that 's all . To learn how to do it , here are Apple 's user manuals and page references for the current ( mid-2010 ) MacBook Pros : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I 've used RoaringApps ' <URL> , which seems fairly comprehensive . However , their servers seem a bit bogged-down at the moment . ( edit - as of July 26 - it 's still very slow to use )
The takeapart guide on iFixit sells replacement parts , but expect them to be pricey . The Air is a very , very delicate machine so be warned that getting it put back together takes more grace than getting it apart . Worst case , you could buy an entire display assembly if you feel you are doing more damage than good by proceeding with this repair . Three cables go into the Air 's display assemblyL Wi-Fi antenna Backlight power LVDS cable I presume you nicked the last one - it has the widest connector to the logic board . The real problem is getting inside the Air 's display assembly as I have n't seen that documented anywhere publicly available . That cable might be part of the LCD panel and might be something you could try to buy used from a liquid damaged or physically damaged Air . Here 's where the question lacks details to know why you were in there to begin . What part was being replaced that caused you to need a razor blade on this repair ? Are you going inside the display assembly in the first place ? Do n't rule out taking it in to the store in a static safe back with your tail between your legs . You will then know if they can fix it by quoting you an out of warranty part cost plus labor to fix things - both what was originally wrong and the things that have now gone not right .
These are for decreasing and increasing the brightness of the keyboard backlight . When the system senses low light and the keyboard is allowed to illuminate , the keys will work . Otherwise , they silently do nothing at all .
end question
start question
Is swipe to archive possible with non-Gmail account in iOS ?
This can now be accomplished very easily in iOS 7 . ( n.b. . The following assumes that you have already setup your account on the iOS device . These steps described are for a generic IMAP account . Also , when ALL CAPS are used below , it is to reflect how Apple has it listed in iOS 7 . ) Launch the ' Settings ' app on your iOS device Scroll down and then tap on " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " Tap on the email account you want to configure . Tap on the ' Account ' line with the at the top of the next screen On the ' IMAP ACCOUNT INFORMATION ' screen , scroll all the way down until you see ' Advanced ' and tap on it Now you will see a ' MAILBOX BEHAVIORS ' screen , showing you which mailboxes are used for Drafts , Sent , Deleted , and Archive mailboxes . Important : Tap on the ' Archive Mailbox ' line and verify that you have chosen the correct folder on the server where you want messages to be saved . Once you have verified that the Archive Mailbox points to where you want it to go , look for the ' MOVE DISCARDED MESSAGES INTO ' section , and tap ' Archive Mailbox ' ( instead of ' Deleted Mailbox ' ) Important : These changes will not be saved until you properly exit the configuration screen . To do this , tap the ' Account button near the top of the ' Advanced ' screen . When you get back to the ' Account ' screen , tap ' Done ' at the top-right corner . If you 'd like a step-by-step guide with screenshots , I have created one and made it available at : <URL>
No . These apps would then also accessible from the lock screen which would open a whole can of worms about security . Even the standard Apple apps do have problems with that sometimes , it would be even worse with 3rd party apps .
Here is the visual comparison of Apple TRRS plug and a standard TRS plug . On the top you can see a 4-pin headset connector . A headset connector needs to be using the same TRRS standard , or it will not function properly if at all . On the bottom you can see a 3-pin headphone connector . Any headphone connector will work fine . Standard 3.5 mm jack stereo headphones have a 3-conductor configuration of TRS ( Tip , Ring , Sleeve ) . The pinout for these connectiors is : Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground . Connectors for headphones with a mic have an additional ring which results in a 4-conductor TRRS configuration ( Tip , Ring , Ring , Sleeve ) . There have been different TRRS standards : The original OMTP configuration , which was created by Nokia and has a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Mic , Ground . AHJ ( American Headset Jack ) with a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground , Mic . CTIA , named after <URL> , which replaced AHJ and has the same pinout . CTIA jacks have improved compatibility to support not only AHJ but also OMTP . CTIA is by default <URL> device manufacturers . Source : <URL> Wikipedia has a short <URL> for which device uses which standard . At last a few points to note : Plugging an OMTP headset into an AHJ jack , and vice versa , will result in the audio-out being inaudible or very quiet . Converters to switch between the two types of headsets are readily <URL> , but do add extra bulk , and may not work reliably with remote control functionality . Apple uses a CTIA/AHJ connector arrangement , but uses a non-standard microphone and volume control signaling method . Simple commands like Play/Pause and Skip however should work across modern mobile devices .
You do n't need a developer account but you do need a Mac . These points are taken from <URL> : In order to take advantage of this , you 'll need three things : Xcode 7 iOS 9 ( minimum ) A free Apple ID To start , you 'll need to set up a provisioning profile to code sign your apps : Open Xode preferences ( Xcode > Preferences ... ) Click the ' Accounts ' tab Login with your Apple ID ( + > Add Apple ID ... ) Once you 've successfully logged in , a new ' Personal Team ' with the role ' Free ' will appear beneath your Apple ID . <URL> There 's a few more details that you can view on that site .
When using Gmail in iChat before 10.7 you ca n't go invisible . I 'm using <URL> to be able to go invisible when I login via Gmail .
Yes , you can only use PayPal with iTunes US , and in that PayPal , you 'll need to have a US bank account or have your locations and any credit cards/debit 's on there will have to be located in the US as iTunes checks for that as well . It all has to be in the US , and can not have any other bank or CC company for any other country .
You can use the current version with other hardware , but it is n't trivial . The LED Cinema Display connects to Macs using a Mini DisplayPort , which is n't popular on non-Apple hardware . However , you can get a converter like <URL> that lets you use the monitor with an HDMI connection . So , if the other machine has an HDMI out you could use that . I 'm sure you can also find converters to use with VGA or DVI outputs . The next version of the display will ( almost certainly ) use ThunderBolt instead of Mini DisplayPort . The physical connector is the same , but the data that travels over the cable is very different . These converters may or may not work with ThunderBolt ; we 'll have to wait for the product to come out and for someone to test .
I had that configuration - and also used for friends &amp; family - and it worked just fine . The only drawback is that mail is no longer pushed to your phone . But apart from that , it 's the best solution to have Gmail ( actually working ) and Google Contacts / Calendar on your iPhone .
Yep . You can have your Apple TV learn the remote codes of any IR remote by going to Settings > General > Remotes . It will then ask you to hit buttons on your new remote corresponding to what it shows on screen . Full instructions can be found at Apple 's site : <URL>
Assuming you 've synced your contacts via Address Book then , if you want a deterministic way of syncing in addition to the periodic sync , you can invoke a sync manually from the menu bar app . OSX is a bit unpleasant in that it will only add this menu item if you set up iCloud , however , you can add this menu to your menu bar without iCloud :) To do so , you need to open a file called located in on your install volume ( usually ) . You should only need to open this file once and then the menu item will remain on your menu bar until you remove it and should persist through logins and reboots . If you want a quick terminal command to do the above then fire up Terminal and enter the following :
Sorry , by design the Guest users are Guests ( temporary visitors ) . They do not require password and you can not set one . Your only other alternative is to set up a user account with password . However , that could bring trouble and I would not trust the 4 years one , he/she could find how to change password and then you are locked out :)
I found the answer <URL> . Close Mail ; Go to ; Edit ( make a backup just in case ) ; Find the key-string pair : Change the tag value to your desired archive folder name , e.g. or depending on your account folder naming scheme . Save the file ; Reopen Mail The Archive folder ( s ) will now apear with their own icon on the left pane and not as regular folders . You can also add an archive button to the toolbar .
It is possible to downgrade to iOS5 . You will just have to " trick " iTunes into thinking you are restoring from one of you backups . Just make sure to first make a backup of your current settings . Then it 's just a matter of restoring from the " fake " backup ( IPSW-file ) . You can download an IPSW ( backup file ) from <URL>
This answer has been moved to a more generic question : <URL>
No . There is no way to interface a CD drive with an iOS device . The best way to do this is to have your iOS device registered to a copy of iTunes running on a Mac or PC , and to connect the iOS device to the Mac or PC via WiFi or a USB cable . This would presuppose that you have a suitable CD drive connected to the Mac or PC for ripping audio . However , it occurs to me that you could probably rip music to AAC or MP3 format on a Mac or PC and then email those files to yourself , check the email on your iOS device , and then open the email attachments on the iOS device . That would get the music files in there .
That is not possible using the default Mail app . It only allows you to differentiate between VIPs and regular senders ( by placing a ☆ next to VIPs ) . If you want to differentiate which account received an email within a notification , you would need to use a separate app for one of your accounts . You will then get separate notification settings for that app , and a different notification icon as well .
iBooks , like all items bought in the iTunes store , can be shared across different iTunes libraries via <URL> . As Apple states : Home Sharing in iTunes is designed to let you easily share your iTunes media libraries between up to five computers in your household . All libraries setup for sharing with the same ID can import purchases made with that ID , independently of the ID they normally use for purchases in the iTunes store . See <URL> for details on requirements , setup procedure etc. .
I used Active Sync since I got my very first iPhone , and switched to CardDAV the day Google announced support for it . I can say without a doubt CardDAV is the way to go With CardDAV , you will get you much more accurate synchronization than with Active Sync . First , as has been mentioned , you can synchronize more than 3 e-mail addresses . In fact , I have 31 e-mail addresses myself , and they finally all sync up with my iPhone . Even more importantly , two-way sync works now . If you make an edit on your iPhone , it wo n't clobber the field in your Google Contacts . For instance , editing e-mail addresses on your iOS device wo n't change their labels in Google Contacts to instead of , , and whatever custom fields you might have had . In particular , custom fields are preserved in both directions . This is especially important if you want to use Siri to " Send an e-mail to my brother " . The field in Google Contacts was not correctly imported into iOS through Active Sync , and if you allowed Siri to save who your brother was in your contacts , the import back into Google Contacts mangled everything up , including all other fields that you did not edit . Finally , phone numbers also all sync in both directions without trouble using CardDAV . To me , two-way editing ( or the lack thereof ) was the biggest problem with Active Sync . I never , ever edited any contacts on my iPhone using Active Sync because I did n't want to have to fix all the fields on a desktop later on . Now I can do it freely and have n't noticed any data corruption . The main gripe people have concerning CardDAV is the lack of push . However , for me Active Sync push was so slow anyway that the slight delay of Fetch barely makes a difference . Plus , my experience with the reliability of Push has been less than stellar ( connections that die and are never re-established , primarily ) . I 've found the polling model to be far more robust . What you may want to avoid while using CardDAV is updating a contact in Gmail or on your iPhone , then immediately updating the same contact in the other . This will likely cause one of your modifications to get overwritten by the modification made in the other direction . Update 1 : The one oddity I 've found in two-way syncing relates to the phone number type . For some reason it does n't sync correctly in either direction ( it becomes " Phone " on your iOS device when entered in Google Contacts , and in Google Contacts when entered from an iOS device ) . My only guess can be that the field has a special meaning to Google . Update 2 : There is another strangeness with the phone number type . It will make it to your iOS devices correctly if entered as such from Google Contacts . However , if you specify as a phone number type from an iOS device , Google Contacts will change that to . The iOS device that originally specified will retain it as its phone number type until that contact is updated again from either Google Contacts ( without first changing the phone number type to ) or from another iOS device . I recommend only entering as a phone number type from Google Contacts . Contacts with that phone number type should also only be edited from Google Contacts if you care about listing as their mobile phone number .
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
There are commercial programs that specialize in sync ' ing folders between systems . The one I use is Synk Pro , found at <URL> . Synk Pro allows either folder sync or Master - > Slave copying , so that one folder is designated as the primary repository . Synk Pro can also remain running while the computer is on , keeping designated folders in sync . But there potential problems synchronizing home accounts across different machines . The first one that comes to mind is ~ / Library/Preferences , which stores the default setup information for your system : some of the settings may not work properly on different machines . The Mail folders in ~ / Library could easily lead to data loss : if you update Mail on both systems inadvertently , then synchronizing the folders could result in overwriting messages in one folder with different contents . This can be avoided if you only retrieve mail on one system , and copy that Mail setup to the other machine . If you only synchronize user folders , like Documents and Downloads , most of such pitfalls are avoided . There are also companies that provide data file sync through the internet , by copying your files to their servers , and then copying from their servers to the other systems you select , and authorize by password . Two examples of these are Dropbox and www.sugarsync.com . These services can not guarantee synchronization if you have the same file open on two machines , however . There are some programs designed to work with Dropbox , that allow changes made on one computer to automatically show up on another machine ; for example , 1password or TextExpander . But many programs are not so designed : Apple programs like Pages and Numbers will not work this way . You must close the file on all machines before the file can be sync ' ed . And it should have been opened on only one machine at a time . And these services require $ $ per year for large amounts of content . Dropbox provides free accounts for up to 2 GB of data , so you could try their service for free to see if it meets your needs . It has been very reliable for me . SugarSync is designed to sync files through the internet and provide offline backup . It has been working well after some initial problems , when their Mac program was still in beta . Both these services allow you to sync files to Windows based machines also . And both allow retrieving previous file versions from their servers . Note that if a machine has been shutdown , it may take a long time to complete the updates over your internet connection . My desktop remains running even if I am away from my desk .
end question
start question
It is possible to use iPhone as BT headset for the computer ?
Natively no , the iPhone is limited to what is parable to it , and the functions once it is paired . . With a jailbroken iPhone there may be some third party software out there .
No , as the first iMac which allows this is the 27-inch Late 2009 iMac , as explained <URL> . There are , though , some Applications which may achieve something similar , requiring both computers to be connected to the same LAN/WiFi/VPN , and sending all the information , the one to be displayed on the second computer working as a display , through it . Such as <URL> . You can find some more <URL> .
If it 's an iMac 21 " / 27 " , yes you can use it as a display with the so called <URL> . You can enable it using the Cmd + F2 keyboard shortcut !
The window that popped up was probably the Photos app , that will typically auto start when a new device with photos is attached . Your friend did the right thing by closing it when he saw it happen . No copies of your photos would have been made at this time , only thumbnails were downloaded and those would be removed when Photos was closed . He theoretically could have copied some data , but Xcode will not automatically copy anything sensitive , so unless he is a really sneaky ' friend ' that set up his Mac to copy in the background in advance , I think you are probably OK .
You probably can use an SD card as a backing store . However : you should not expect a good result . See the up-voted comments .
This answer has been moved to a more generic question : <URL>
Not Yet , I have tested it and TechHive <URL> . Though Mavericks may bring this functionality ( complete speculation obviously ) .
False , Dual DVI means that it has more bandwidth , not that you can attach two monitors . Quote from <URL> article : To support display devices requiring higher video bandwidth , there is provision for a dual DVI link . A dual link doubles the number of TMDS pairs , effectively doubling video bandwidth at a given pixel clock frequency . Dual link should not be confused with dual display ( also called dual head ) , which describes those situations where a computer is hooked up to two monitors at once . Neither , either , or both of the dual displays could be dual link . Depending on the video card ( s ) , the displays could be both analog ( VGA ) , an analog and a digital , or both digital . In order to attach two monitors , you could use a third party device like - you can connect two or three monitors from your Display Port , however , there are some limitations ( like the OS does not know natively that there are two or three monitors connected and treats it like one ) . The price is about $ 350 for the Tripplehead and around $ 220 for the Dualhead one . Here is the <URL> .
Text is copied in rich form in iOS 3 + . You can try it by copying some text in Safari and pasting it to Mail . But pasted text format will depend of the app . For example , the SimpleNote app only paste in plain text format , since the service does n't not support image and text styling . There is no native way to see the copied text in HTML form . You 'll have to find an app to do that .
Devs still have to upgrade through iTunes , Xcode only lets you put other apps on your phone . So no , there really is n't another way .
Select Netbeans in Finder , right click and press " Get Info " ( or press Cmd ⌘ - I on the keyboard ) . In the window that pops up , check " Open in Low Resolution " .
Bmike From memory , Delicious Library includes the software component required to communicate with serial io devices such as USB and Bluetooth scanners like the Microvision ROV Thee may be other ways to interface but the recommended solution from the scanner manufacturer is a piece of software , SerialMagic or SerialMagic Pro from a company called Serial IO <URL> Currently retailing at 50 USD
I 've had experience with this , and it does work with some fiddling , but it does n't " just work " in the mac sense . Every now and then , you 'll find that you have to reconnect the volume , restart a daemon , or else face weird time machine errors . If you 're okay with being this " hands on " , you 'll need to install Netatalk ( AFP daemon ) and Avahi ( Bonjour daemon ) on your Linux machine , and set a option on your mac to allow Time Machine to use network drives . This is the guide I used for setting such a system up : <URL> Make sure you keep a close eye on it for your first few weeks - nothing worse than backups that are n't actually backing up !
I have not tried this , personally , but there are good instructions for doing so with a Tripp Lite ( née Keyspan ) USB-to-Serial adapter and an <URL> . Obviously , you can ignore the Apple II-specific parts of the instructions ( the majority of the article ) and focus on the adapter , the cable , and getting to run .
No , you can not install fonts on any iOS device without jail breaking or by creating an app . But Safari can itself display fonts placed on a server with appropriate html code in the page .
If the card can be used in an Apple retail store ( i.e. not an iTunes gift card ) , then yes . Repairs are treated as an in-line item in their POS system . Any valid form of payment that could be used to pay for anything else in the store can be used to pay for repairs . I called an Apple retail store to confirm this .
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
Unfortunately no , but this is something I would also greatly appreciate .
I know you said however I could not find it anywhere so assuming it 's a typo and you actually meant you can install it with : Or
No it is not possible . The screen is what is limiting the resolution . That does mean that you can set up and use an external monitor with higher resolution as you can read on : <URL>
end question
start question
How do I remove purchased GarageBand content ?
You should look for it in the following place , copy following and paste it in to the Go to Folder in the Finder . Know-how : * If you are wondering how I did it , since I do not use the Garageband : I used the in Terminal that showed me all locations for it . After that it was easy . *
Try <URL> . This lets you hide ( as well as re-arrange ) menu bar items , as well as providing a secondary menu bar so that you can hide icons from the main bar but still have access to them on a keyboard shortcut or menu bar item .
You ca n't consolidate them , but you can delete them . Just right click and click " Delete " .
As shown in the following image , you can remove Login Items by selecting them ( highlighting them ) and clicking the " - " button . Hiding an item ( by selecting the check box ) in Login Items means that it is opened , but hidden .
For others who have this problem , the error fixed itself after a few days during a sync .
For adding functions to iTunes you should look at Doug ; s Applescripts . There is a script to <URL> .
Open Finder , select Go/Go to Folder ... ( ⇧ ⌘ G ) , paste in : Delete the apps from there . ( Note that ~ means your user folder , not the regular Applications folder . ) Finally , empty the trash to remove from launchpad . If you use Canary or any other type of Chrome build : it will have its own additional folder in .
There are 2 ways I can think of now : Follow <URL> step-by-step program to see your complete purchase history Remove the app , make sure you 're logged in on the right account and check if the just removed app has a cloud-symbol instead of " purchase " next to it . Hope this helps .
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
Apple <URL> : Boot Camp : Remove Windows from your Mac How you remove Windows from your Mac depends on whether you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions or one that has a single partition . Important : Back up all important data stored on your Windows partition . If you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions Start up your Mac in OS X. Quit all open apps and log out any other users . Open Boot Camp Assistant , then click Continue . Select " Remove Windows 7 or later version , " then click Continue . Do one of the following : If your Mac has a single internal disk , click Restore . If your Mac has multiple internal disks , select the Windows disk , select " Restore disk to a single OS X partition , " then click Continue . If you installed Windows on a disk that has a single partition Start up your Mac in OS X. Open Disk Utility , located in the Other folder in Launchpad . Select the Windows disk , click Erase , choose the Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) > format , then click the Erase button .
It sounds like there 's a little confusion . Let me elaborate a little bit ... I used to be a Senior Advisor for Apple and this was by far the most common call . First , migrating to a new Apple ID can be difficult , but you can do it . To make sure all future purchases ask for your new Apple ID , go to Settings > iTunes &amp; App Store and then select your Apple ID . Is this your new one or your old one ? If it 's your old one , tap " Sign Out " and try signing in with your new one . All future purchases should then prompt you for your new Apple ID and password . However , keep in mind that any apps that you 've already downloaded with your old Apple ID will prompt you for that old Apple ID and password when the apps need to be updated . ( This is what everyone else is talking about ) . In order to never see or think about that old Apple ID again , you 'll need to delete those apps over time and re-purchase them on your new Apple ID . Second , it is imperative that you understand what email addresses are and are n't associated with each Apple ID . To check this out , go to id.apple.com and sign in to each of them . It is possible to have multiple emails associated with an Apple ID . It is also possible to have an " alternate Apple ID , " which basically means you can use either to sign in . One more thing -- with the announcement of iOS 8 , Apple IDs can be conjoined or paired using Family Sharing . It may just be more confusing , but check out the synopsis on Apple 's website <URL> .
Grab it in the list &amp; drag it out to the desktop - like you would with an app in the dock , etc. . You should see the little puff of smoke &amp; it 's gone .
Start by reading <URL> from Apple , which explains the recovery partition in Lion . From the article : OS X Lion includes a new feature called Lion Recovery that includes all of the tools you need to reinstall Lion , repair your disk , and even restore from a Time Machine backup without the need for optical discs . In short , if you remove this partition you 'll need a Lion USB drive , or physical media to perform the actions described by Apple above . To reclaim the space of the recovery partition follow the steps below : Open Terminal.app Run the commands below ( omit the # and everything after ) One thing to note here , you can only merge consecutive partitions . If you have disk0s2 and disk0s4 running will merge partitions disk02s2 , disk02s3 , disk02s4 . Also , only the data on the first partition will be preserved when merging . As an example , if your Recovery HD is disk0s3 and your OS partition is disk0s4 , merging using is not possible . Use extreme caution modifying your partition table , and I 'd highly recommend taking a full backup before hand .
Things you 've purchased off the iTunes Store can be transferred off your iPhone by right clicking on your iPhone in iTunes and choosing ' Transfer Purchases ' . You might need to Authorise your computer first by clicking the Store Menu , and then choosing Authorise This Computer . For your non-iTunes Store content I 'd recommend <URL> ( read it backwards ! ) which lets you copy music from your iPhone or iPad back to your mac . Senuti costs $ 18 , but there 's a trial version , which can transfer up to 1000 songs . Neither of these require a jailbreak .
Download <URL> , and load it into the / Library/Quicklook or ~ / Library/QuickLook folder . Then , restart the Dock . I use this all the time when previewing JSON files , and it works great .
The exceptions are stored in Keychain Access . The certificate will be copied there , together with the trust settings . Double-click a certificate and you will be able to change it 's settings . Note : you can have trust setting on system level and user level ! They have separate keychains as listed in the sidebar .
You can use <URL> , which allows to connect to a FTP server through a filesystem device . MacFusion requires <URL> , or <URL> with the compatibility layer for MacFUSE . Mount files and documents as a " Volume " in the Mac OS X Finder . Work with your files using your favorite Mac OS X applications directly . No manual upload or download needed ! Support for SSH ( Secure Shell ) and FTP ( File Transfer Protocol ) servers . Uses your machine 's native configuration for SSH , including support for private keys and custom settings . Quickly connect to a any server using the Quick Connect dialog , accessible from Macfusion 's optional menu item .
This is actually still possible ; however , a safe-guard to protect novice users has been added . There is now a minimum distance that you need to move the icon away from the Dock for it to be removed . Once that distance is reached , the cursor will show a wrinkled paper icon . Simply release the mouse then , and the icon will be removed from the dock normally . Alternatively , one can still use the context menu of the icon ( right-click or long-left-click the icon to make it appear ) and go to Options > Remove from Dock .
Connect your camcorder and use iMovie HD to import the tape , then export using Share > Quicktime . It will create one file out of the tape . Edit : In response to Sajee 's comment below . Choose Share > Quicktime > Compress movie for : Full Quality . As implied , there wo n't be any loss of quality .
end question
start question
Is the camera in the new iPad using " 4S optics " ?
No , the iPhone 4S has an 8mp camera . The prior iPhone 4 had a 5mp camera though . But , yes , the older iPad had a much worse camera - less than 1mp . This would seem to show it 's from the iPhone 4 : <URL> Megapixels are n't everything - but the new iPad certainly has the best camera in an iPad so far . The front facing camera is n't that great though , even with the rear one hugely improved .
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
No , the PIN Code does n't prevent you from using the camera shortcut . Just make sure to double-press the home button to show the camera shortcut . Note : you ca n't access your old photos as long as the iPhone is locked .
If you have a Mac , connect your iPhone to it . There is a build in app ( from Apple ) called <URL> in your Applications folder . Use it to bulk delete Photos on iPhone .
Effectively yes - you should not expect to be able to use a Verizon iPad on an AT&amp;T account or the other way around . The next two paragraphs only apply to the US iPads . Internationally ( outside the US ) , the micro SIM slot is unlocked , so you will be able to insert a non-AT &amp; T/non-VZW card in either and have service without needing to jailbreak the device . See : <URL> - the section on selecting a carrier and ready to take on the world .
I have both and can confirm that the iPad Mini 4 does not have the iPhone 6S TouchID Sensor . Side by side the iPad feels more like the iPhone 6 where you have to pause on the button to authenticate . Quite disappointing .
The answer was basically in my original question . Spotlight is indeed the sole arbiter of the Date Added column . And the Trash , not being a real folder , is not Spotlight indexed . If you move a file with a Date Added into the Trash , it keeps the Date Added from its original folder . If you then put it back , its Date Added ( to the original folder ) is updated to the present . It would probably take a significant engineering effort to make this work for the Trash , so I 'm not expecting to see this fixed before Mountain Lion , if ever .
There is an app called <URL> that will allow you to do this . It also recently got retina display support for the new iPad . Some notes : Use your iPad , iPhone or Mac as a second ( or third ) monitor with no messy cables or wires . Use your finger to draw directly on the screen . Try it with a Mac calculator app , painting tool , or music control surface ! Air Display works in both landscape and portrait configurations . Just rotate your screen , and it automatically reconfigures . <URL> and <URL> discussed the upcoming retnia support update coming soon last week . They issued a press release of some sort last week , many blogs covered this upcoming feature . <URL> . Update - it looks like this feature is <URL> . <URL> as well .
The charger is 10W like the old iPad . It 's called iPad 10W USB Power Adapter and has product number MC359LL . Specs and QnA are available at the Apple US <URL> .
There is no official way to do so , but if you 've jailbroken your iPad , you can use <URL> . It 's a Cydia Tweak and I can highly recommend it . It does exactly what you want .
Sorry , but no . This only works on the iPad if you are using an external Bluetooth keyboard .
The best solution I found in the end was to use iTunes , select Photo syncing then instead of using iPhoto , manually selecting a folder full of video . This had to be video that iOS could play natively , it did n't do any kind of conversion or compression .
The hardware is capable of 30fps , I have this model ( MacBookPro9 ,1 , i7 2.3 GHz ) on my desk in front of me and just shot a movie that lists as 29.81 fps at 720p . However , Apple will , in software , reduce the frame rate if your HDD/SSD/other storage and/or processor and memory are not capable of handling the maximum frame rate at the time of capture . The do this to ensure you can still use the camera even in non-optimal conditions . How much free space ( percentage ) do you have on your storage ? Are you running any processor intensive applications . How much RAM do you have ? These factors can have a serious impact on capture rates . It is also entirely possible that the frame rate is being affected by other factors if you are using a 3rd party application such as Skype . Hope this helps ?
The microphone and speakers on Apple laptops are located in the lower case , not in the display . What you are noticing are the permanent magnets installed in the display to keep the lid closed without a mechanical latch .
I found a way to fix this issue , thought I should post it since it might help someone else . Granted this fix kinda worked for me since my fans are at their full rpm but you should read the explanation first and then choose to follow the steps yourself , anyways the info . is here : <URL>
Download Apple file conduit " 2 " from cydia , Once you do you will be able to see everything that you want such as / var in Ifunbox in the raw system files section
The short answer is yes - the 4G on the iPhone 4S is merely a label change for AT&amp;T 's HSPA + network . More info can be found in <URL> . From <URL> for the iPad 2 : Wi-Fi + 3G for AT&amp;T UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) From <URL> for the iPhone 4s : UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz )
PUSH ! The old way was to insert the tool at an angle and kind of push sideways and pull out at the same time , using leverage , and the tray would hang onto and come out with the tool , but with the new iPad ( 2012 ) , simply insert the SIM eject tool straight into the tiny hole ( straight being the way it enters with the least resistance , i.e. perpendicular to the case where the hole is ) , and then push . The tray will eject . I 'd have posted a link to authoritative information , but I just had this exact problem myself ( UPS guy arrived an hour ago ! ) and so I 'm speaking from first-hand experience :-) I tried what I thought was obvious once I realized the hole was no longer part of the SIM card tray assembly ( see photos below ) , so angling and pulling would do nothing like it did on the 2010 model 's tray ( i.e. when the hole was part of the tray ) . SIM card tray outer view from my original iPad ( 2010 ) : Notice the hole was part of the tray . SIM card tray outer view from my new iPad ( 2012 ) : Notice the hole is separate from the tray . Insert SIM tool , and push . I 'm adding a comment . Once you notice the Sim Tray lifting just a fraction you are half way there - now push harder and it pops right out . Good luck .
The System Requirements from <URL> states : Works with all devices that have a Lightning connector and support iOS 10 or later , including iPod touch , iPad , and iPhone . Compatibility iPhone Models iPhone 5iPhone 5ciPhone 5siPhone SEiPhone 6iPhone 6 PlusiPhone 6siPhone 6s PlusiPhone 7iPhone 7 Plus iPad Models iPad with Retina displayiPad mini 2iPad AiriPad Air 2iPad mini 3iPad mini 4iPad Pro ( 9.7-inch ) iPad Pro ( 12.9-inch ) iPod Models iPod touch 6th Generation
It depends . The iPad ( 3rd Generation ) is slightly thicker than the iPad 2 , but there are reports that many cases designed for the 2 will work on the new model . Both of these iPads can use the smart cover technology too . Check with the case manufacturer or online forums to be check the compatibility of specific models . Update : It <URL> . Early smart covers may not work with iPad ( 3gen ) because Apple changed the polarity of the sleep sensor magnets at some point during the production run . The original iPad was the thickest of the lot and had no smart cover capability . Most cases ( if not all ) were not interchangeable between the newer models . Accessories should work unless they 're truly dimension critical or require a technology not present in a previous model . My inCase Origami case and the Apple Bluetooth Keyboard it protects continues to work with all iPad models , as do my car chargers , video adaptors and the Apple Camera Connection Kit . The OtterBox Defender case on my original iPad wo n't does n't work on newer models .
end question
start question
What is the icon on the desktop after I install an application ?
This is the downloaded disk image . Many applications downloaded from the internet will come as an internet ready disk image , which means that it mounts and opens when the downloaded file is opened . A disk image is a mountable image of any volume . Disk images can be images of physical volumes or virtual disks . Like a zip , dmg disk images can be compressed ( and usuall are , especially internet ready disk images such as the disk images used to install software from the internet ) or can be read/write like an actual disk . They are mounted in the same mount point as physical disks , but are virtual . When unmounting , the disk is ejected and the mount point deleted like a physical disk . As the disk image is a disk , it will be shown on the desktop if you have the relevant option selected in Finder preferences : Copy the app to your / Applications folder ( or wherever else you desire ) then eject the disk image by right-clicking and selecting Eject ( or through Finder ) . The mounted disk image is the . dmg that you downloaded , therefore can be deleted by deleting this disk image after unmounting .
This is the downloaded disk image . Many applications downloaded from the internet will come as an internet ready disk image , which means that it mounts and opens when the downloaded file is opened . A disk image is a mountable image of any volume . Disk images can be images of physical volumes or virtual disks . Like a zip , dmg disk images can be compressed ( and usuall are , especially internet ready disk images such as the disk images used to install software from the internet ) or can be read/write like an actual disk . They are mounted in the same mount point as physical disks , but are virtual . When unmounting , the disk is ejected and the mount point deleted like a physical disk . As the disk image is a disk , it will be shown on the desktop if you have the relevant option selected in Finder preferences : Copy the app to your / Applications folder ( or wherever else you desire ) then eject the disk image by right-clicking and selecting Eject ( or through Finder ) . The mounted disk image is the . dmg that you downloaded , therefore can be deleted by deleting this disk image after unmounting .
Troubleshooting a slow mac is fairly easy , but sometimes tedious . You will want to and quit all apps . You might even go to the Users &amp; Groups preference and remove all applications that start when you log in to your Mac . Turn off WiFi and then shut down the Mac so you can start isolating it . Remove all peripherals except the keyboard , display and power cord . Power on and then log in and let it run for 5 minutes and then take a snapshot of the Activity Monitor . Look and see what CPU usage is and if the background tasks are taking any CPU time . If so , dig deeper - open terminal and run " sudo sysdiagnose " If not , go ahead and connect your peripherals one at a time . Check the CPU/Activity Monitor and watch both the Memory Pressure graph and the CPU . If you want , you can also look at energy , but that 's better for half hour snapshots for me . At this point , you should know the OS is fine and all of your peripherals and hard drives are not causing the slowness . Now go ahead and start the apps you choose to run when it 's slow . Again , you are still disconnected from any network - just checking the OS and the CPU . When that 's fine , you can conclude that the data coming in from the network was causing a load the OS was n't handling . If you can narrow things down , get a from a clean start and again when it is " slow " and post a second question with details of what your initial troubleshooting has shown .
This is mentioned in the release notes for 1.0.1 : <URL>
Generally , it does not affect , but there are some apps that do n't properly work when you do it . The only way to know is trying it . In the worst case , you can revert the changes without issues . About accessing keychain , same thing , usually you wo n't have problems . I have n't tested auto-update . I usually did it with old versions of apps , to have both old and new ones .
So long as your USD99 annual membership fee for Mac Developer Program is current ( and you do n't break the Agreement or any NDA ) , that paid membership already covers the following typical software distribution costs : set up your App ID for distributing your app set up and download credentials needed to sign the app for distribution via the App Store . keeping your tax information and deducting the appropriate withholding on apps sold for selected countries ' App Store . review of your app hosting of your app ( at App Store ) etc. .
I would suggest you set up a hot corner to show the desktop ( this is what I do ) : Open System Preferences Click Mission Control Click the " Hot Corners ... " button at the bottom Set the corner you want to use for " Desktop " ( I use the top right ) Click OK Now you can move a file from a Finder window to the desktop with just the mouse : Click and drag the file you want to move to the hot corner you set up , which will show the desktop Drop the file on the desktop
On the immediate downsides - You will need special tools and be handling some delicate parts . Also , there is <URL> causes the fans to run faster with non-apple drives . If you really want to get dust between the LCD and the front glass on a brand new mac and take the chance of ripping a tiny ribbon cable - just do some research at ifixit.com or talk with a local tech that works on new iMacs a lot . Do also research fan control and know if you are not planning on an Apple specification drive to install . My guess is Apple SSD are expensive because the parts are cherry picked to be the best of a lot ( more so than the SSD consumers buy ) and perhaps loaded with custom firmware and generally have temp sensors specific to the mac . I could be totally wrong , but even if you feel the drives are overpriced , Apple installing any SSD is better than a consumer due to the labor for for installing them is almost nil as they are installed at the most economical time - at assembly . If you ca n't afford it now - why not expand to an external SSD over firewire or ThunderBolt later . They are totally silent and small . It just seems the risks of DIY on a new mac make it better for most people to pay a trained tech to do the install .
It 's actually pretty simple , in that , if it is not in the app store it ca n't be installed , unless you want to go the jailbreak route because you found an " R " app for jailbroken IOS devices .
Using remote desktop tools , yes . For example , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> come to mind immediately .
Bluetooth needs to be in advertising mode for Yosemite 's Handoff to work . To disable Handoff in Mac Yosemite : Select System Prefs > General and uncheck " Allow Handoff between this Mac and your iCloud devices " .
I 've done this several times and never had a problem . Just make certain your external drive uses the correct partition scheme ( GUID for Intel Macs ) and format . I once forgot to change the partition scheme and , as a result , could n't run firmware updates until I reformatted the drive .
According to <URL> I can safely ( re ) move the installer application and still download it again from the App Store without paying again . It is unclear whether I will get update notifications . <URL> on a story about an attempt to upgrade Xcode with low disk space indicates that the move to an external disk may be tracked by the OS , and an upgrade via the Mac App Store can result in the moved application ( even if it 's on an external disk ) being upgraded . I did not get an upgrade notification for Xcode 4.0.1 , even though my original installer application was still in the folder . I moved the installer application to an external disk ( via , because dragging it in Finder gave me the message " You may need to enter the name and password for an administrator on this computer to change the item named " Install Xcode " . " ) , I 'll report back what happens when I try to upgrade it via the Mac App Store .
As you know OS makes a lot files during its uses . Many of those are hidden files or Cache or Temp files but all related to the specific OS . When new OS is installed it takes over those ( deletes most of them ) and starts making its own ones . For example the Terminal command will show you the cached files/folders , but this will only show the non hidden ones . I have some 3 Gig of stuff in there . OS will hide system files and ones it creates in due process to protect them , but they can be made visible if one wants to do that . I can not say what specific files new OS install will remove but they must be specific to a previous OS and no longer needed by new OS since it will create its own versions of them .
That totally depends on the apps you want to do . Do they need GPS localization ? A microphone ? Front or back cameras ? Hi-res camera ? Besides , you ca n't test an iPad app on the iPhone , so you 'll need an iPad no matter what . Edit : According to the comment , an iPod Touch would be enough for you .
As far as I know , it 's not possible to do so dynamically . What you can do is change the icon manually ( but then you have to do it for each folder of course ... ) . Open your icon with Preview . Then copy the image by using the build in copy/paste functionality . Select the whole image with cmd + A and copy it with cmd + C . Then open the ' Info ' window ( right-click and Get Info ) of the folder and select the icon on the upper left corner . If you paste cmd + V the image , you 'll see the folder icon got replaced by the image . And of course , <URL> .
You can try this one-liner : Let it run for a while , then hit Control-C . It will print a summary of the number of bytes read from sockets , distributed among processes . For a more detailed view , replace by . Or just to see a count of socket reads , replace by . Disclaimer : I have only tried this on Lion , but AFAIK no great changes in dtrace-ability have occured between SL and Lion .
As you may see , websites that keep the music running appear as the music app ( here on iOS 6 ) It uses the HTML5 audio feature . In the website you gave ( <URL> ) . They use the <URL> plugin for jquery to use the HTML5 audio API .
After the script has been created do the following : Find the source app with the icon you want Get Info of the source app ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the source app 's info window ( Not the one in the big Preview section at the bottom , if you have one of those ; the little one in the top-left corner . ) Copy it ( cmd-c ) Get Info of the automator script ( i.e. , the destination app ) ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the destination app 's info window Paste the icon from the clipboard ( cmd-v ) This method works for every files in Mac OS X . <URL>
I use <URL> which works on the basic principle of temporarily replacing the current menubar with a shorter one to allow all the menubar icons to be visible . It can be accessed by clicking on the icon , via mouse gestures , or a configurable hotkey .
end question
start question
Pros and cons of wiping a new Mac ?
There are several disadvantages : Most internet posts describing how to reinstall OS X miss the hardware specific diagnostic boot image that is stored on Recovery HD ( this has changed starting with El Capitan 10.11 ) . You will lose the iLife apps if you do n't first boot the factory OS and claim those redemptions to an Apple ID . The recovery boot is n't a deal breaker if you do n't mind using a generic internet recovery boot image when needed . Or you can find and reinstall the following folder on the ' Recovery HD ' : So , your call on what happens when pressing and holding the 'D ' button at startup . Losing iMovie , Photos ( or iPhotos if the Mac shipped with that as well/instead ) , GarageBand does n't matter if you purchased the hardware under a DEP program or do n't care to use those or already have them or do n't care to spend money later to buy them as needed .
Boot into the Recovery HD by holding ⌘ R on boot and use Disk Utility on there . This way you can guarantee the disk is not being accessed and can be unmounted successfully .
According to the man page , hibernatemode = 3 ( binary 0011 ) by default on supported portables . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will power memory during sleep . The system will wake from memory , unless a power loss forces it to restore from disk image . But then also standby causes kernel power management to automatically hibernate a machine after it has slept for a specified time period . This saves power while asleep . This setting defaults to ON for supported hardware . The setting standby will be visible in pmset - g if the feature is supported on this machine . standby only works if hibernation is turned on to hibernatemode 3 or 25 . ( which it is by default on supported portables ) standbydelay specifies the delay , in seconds , before writing the hibernation image to disk and powering off memory for Standby . On my machine , with settings that I believe are default , when I type I get the result of 4200 , meaning that after 70 minutes of sleep , the machine cuts power to the memory and restores from the memory image saved to the hard drive . If your settings do not look like this , the command just might be your new friend .
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
Albums > Faces - the pending list should appear at the bottom of the page , if there are any new faces to tag . <URL> <URL>
Any computer that shipped with Lion or Mountain Lion has <URL> , which is a very limited installer that downloads the full OS from Apple and installs it . To get into the Recovery mode , just boot while holding down commandR , and it will prompt you for the rest . However you can also do a direct clone of your existing disk to your SSD , which will avoid having to download the installer ( it 's about 4 GB ) or reinstall all your programs and data . You 'll need an external enclosure to put one of the drives in . You can do this with the built-in <URL> , or a tool like <URL> ( the free version of which suffices for this task ) .
If you 're comfortable in the Terminal , you can use rsync to copy some files from one place to another and it 'll give you summary stats on the speed : E.g. rsync -- stats -- human-readable ~ / Desktop/Large-File / Volumes/OtherDisk/Dir You can also type into the terminal just the command : ( note there needs to be one or more spaces after to end that command and break before the source and destination file names are provided ) Then drag the file / folder you wish to copy and drop it onto the terminal window , followed by dragging and dropping the destination directory . Dragging and dropping a file / folder onto a terminal window will place that file/folder 's path into the terminal window . Dragging a file is preferred in most cases since it will handle a space in any folder or file name . In this case the space needs an \ to indicate not to end the file name exactly opposite of needing the space earlier . The output of the above command will be similar to :
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
There are no special steps . Install it using the installer just like you did on your old Mac . When prompted for the activation key , select " activate by phone " and input nothing , keep trying and it should provide a number to call . Microsoft ( unlike Adobe ) does not have an automated system for licence deactivation . This has been a point of great angst among Mac users as it requires them to call Microsoft each and every time they move the Office application from one machine to another . I believe the number in the US is : +1 (800) 936-5700 . Your product support number may vary . <URL> on activation and product key information .
The App Store does n't offer support for paid app updates . You can release new features as in-app purchases for the current app ( as @Jason said ) . If , however , you want to charge for a new version of the app itself , then you need to release the new version as its own app and remove the previous version from sale . A common convention is to name the new app " MyApp 2 " ( with the " 2 " as part of the name ) to distinguish it , since its actual version number will be 1 since it 's a new app . Yes , it 's a little confusing ... One issue to be aware of with this approach is that , because MyApp 1 and MyApp 2 are separate apps , users of MyApp 1 wo n't get any kind of notification that MyApp 2 is available , since it 's not an " update " of that app but rather a separate thing entirely .
If you get a refurb from Apple then it will come with the same warranty as a new phone . It is not a scratch n dent type phone , but will look and feel new . Not 100 % about getting one from a provider like AT&amp;T or Verizon , but I think they will also provide a full warranty .
You could use <URL> . Prior to iOS 5 , you would have to plug in your device to sync with iTunes . As of iOS 5 , 2 new features were introduced : iCloud Wi-Fi syncing with iTunes For people like me that mainly used iTunes for backup purposes , iCloud eliminated the need for syncing with iTunes altogether . However , there are people that still sync with iTunes and thus Wi-Fi syncing could help . It does the exact same thing as syncing with the cable but you do n't need to have anything attached . Both computers just need to be on the same Wi-Fi network . Apple has all the steps necessary in order to get this working . One of the things lacking on Apple 's page is how to force a sync from your device . On an iPhone , you would do the following : Launch Settings . Navigate to General > iTunes Wi-Fi Sync Press Sync Now . ( Note : This will only appear if you have set up Wi-Fi syncing according to Apple 's directions and that computer is on and connected to the same network . )
If you 're using Migration Assistant , the software will stay licensed , and if you intend to wipe and repurpose the old computer it 's likely you 're in the clear as far as licensing goes . The Windows guest OSes wo n't notice any change : VMware 's virtual hardware wo n't change , so they 'll be totally oblivious to the migration . I know from past experience that Microsoft Office works fine after Migration Assistant runs . I 'm not sure about Serene Screen or VMware , but I 've never had any trouble with any licensed software after Migration Assistant , including notoriously picky stuff like Photoshop or LabVIEW . Now , on the other hand , if you simply want to clone the software and use it on both machines , you could probably get away with using the same keys , but you should check the license to see if that 's allowed . If it 's not , it should be as easy as buying a new license key and just replacing the old one on one machine .
Hopefully this should work regardless of OS version , but it 's been tested on 10.6.8 : Open Automator Choose to create a Folder Action Choose your photo folder as the folder to work on Chooses Utilities - > Run AppleScript and drag it into the panel on the right Paste the code below into the Run AppleScript panel Save the folder action and try it out ! end run Note : The script might have some unnecessary elements in it , but while trying to tweak it it often stopped working . Feel free to try on your own !
You can move your iTunes library from your PC to your Mac . As long as the persistent id is the same it wo n't erase the iPhone . You could also just edit the Mac iTunes library to have the same persistent id your PC library did . <URL>
This was n't intended to be a Jeopardy question , but I think I 've figured it out . On the iPhone , go to Settings " iCloud and set Contacts to Off . On the computer , turn off iCloud contact syncing Connect the iPhone to the computer Click on the iPhone button that appears top right in iTunes Go to Info Check Sync Contacts Select Selected Groups Select the group you want synced .
Yes a Time Machine ( TM ) backup is sufficient ; you do n't need to " install " the OS and then restore the backup . However you will need a copy of the OS at least and that can definitely be placed on either a USB stick or external HDD . The OS media contains the utilities you 'll need to restore the TM backup . <URL> . ( edit for clarity ) Depending on how new your MBP is , more specifically which version of OS X you have , you may also have a built in <URL> that has all the tools you need to do this as well .
Few ways found after searching - 1 . Mac Tracker Mactracker provides detailed information on every Apple Macintosh computer ever made , including items such as processor speed , memory , optical drives , graphic cards , supported OS versions , and expansion options . Also included is information on Apple mice , keyboards , displays , printers , scanners , speakers , cameras , iPod , Apple TV , iPhone , iPad , Wi-Fi products , Newton , iOS , Mac OS , and OS X versions . <URL> 2 . Coconut Battery 2.8 It has this nice feature which shows the age of your mac inside the App - Calculates the age of your Mac using the coded production date in the serial number of your Mac . <URL>
To enable a retina rendered Eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist using your favorite text editor . Just above Place this : Then , make a copy of the app so that OSX will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
I ended up being patient and did not make any purchases until recently when Age of Mythology : Extended Edition was released on <URL> . It includes the Titans expansion and is likely to have more content added like what was done for Age of Empires II on Steam . I do have to boot into Windows to play but it runs really well ( graphics look awesome ) through Steam .
end question
start question
How to restrict an iOS app to iPad Pro only ?
Within Xcode you can specify that an app is iPad only under the " Deployment Info " section of the target 's General settings . Beyond that the way to limit an app to certain devices is by specifying features in the Info.plist under the key . You can see the options listed on Apple 's developer website here : <URL> Unfortunately there does not seem to be an option that limits an app to iPad Pro devices only . You can specify " arm64 " which will limit your app to iPad mini second generation and above , iPad Airs and iPad Pro devices . But I ca n't see an option that says devices that support Apple Pencil only .
The Apple-sanctioned method to accomplish this is the use of the <URL> feature in iOS6 . Settings > General > Accessibility > Learning > Guided Access .
Do you happen to have an Apple TV ? If so , that would be how I 'd do it , using Airplay . If not , then any Apple TV ( 2nd generation and above ) supports Airplay and you already have the cable ( i.e. HDMI to HDMI ) that you need to connect it to your HDTV . The advantage of this is that you also get all the benefits of having the Apple TV as well , not to mention the fact you wo n't have your iPad or MBP tethered with a cable ( or cables ) to your HDTV ( i.e. the mirroring happens via WiFi and you 're able to have the iPad or MBP anywhere you want while mirroring ) . If your question is about connecting these devices to any HDTV that you may need to connect to ( i.e. not a single one at your home , but to various models in various locations ) or you do not want/need an Apple TV , then I 'm not aware of a single solution that will pass both video and audio from both devices , but perhaps someone else will have a solution . [ EDIT ] Just checked and Apple are selling <URL> 3rd generation Apple TVs for $ 59 . At that price , it 'd be hard to warrant spending the money on cables and/or adaptors , unless you intend to carry them with you in your travels . You can also buy brand new Apple TV 3 units from places like <URL> who still have them in stock ( since they 've been superseded ) .
Apps which are just web views are specifically against the App Review Guidelines : 2.12 Apps that are not very useful , unique , are simply web sites bundled as Apps , or do not provide any lasting entertainment value may be rejected Source : <URL>
I get receipts by e-mail from Apple whenever I buy something in the iTunes store . If you do n't delete them they should still be there .
HP does n't make any iOS apps with this functionality , no - have you tried opening the printer 's webpage in Safari on the iPad however ? None of my OfficeJet 6500 or 4500 printers can run the scan functions from their status pages , but perhaps your model is slightly different .
To date , I have found only one PDF reader that has Dropbox connectivity and has autoscroll ( after a fashion . ) It is PDF Reader Pro <URL> It is a universal app that works on both iPad and iPhone and ties to Box.net , Dropbox , Googledocs , and iDisk . It has an " Autoflow " feature that allows timed jumps ( from 5 to 100 seconds ) of a preset number of pixels ( 20 to 400 . ) I bought it at the low price of $ 0.99 and it performs , pretty much , as expected . It has some basic annotation capabilities and " scans " documents using the camera in the iPad 2 . I have an original so I could n't test that feature . I have n't used it a lot as I like the annotative capabilities of iAnnotate , but the app is a good fall back if I need the autoflow feature . For $ 0.99 it looks to be a solid reader that fits the requirements you laid out .
Yes . Xcode has built-in support for targeting specific devices with your app . It 's as simple as selecting the target device from a drop-down list . This could enable you to create an initial version that targets either iPhone or iPad , and then later switch to Universal and submit it as a new version . The App Store will then automatically recognize that the new version of the app is Universal , and you would need to add additional screenshots , etc. for the new devices .
Theres been <URL> online of messages sync being a bit buggy if you do n't set it up exactly right . Heres a few solutions that should get everything syncing nicely for you : Firstly , you need to have all devices set up to the same Apple ID iOS Devices ( iPhone , iPod Touch , iPad ) : Navigate to Settings > Messages . Make sure iMessage is turned on . Tap on Receive At . Check your Apple ID . Make note of this Apple ID . Tap on Caller ID . Use your email address . If you use your phone number ( assuming you &#8217; re on an iPhone ) , then the non phone devices ( including the Mac ) may not ( and probably won &#8217; t ) see the messages . Mac version : Navigate to the Messages app . Go to Preferences > Accounts . Add the same Apple ID as you used on the iOS devices . In a nutshell : everything needs to be consistent . Use the same Apple ID everywhere and an email address as a caller id for best results . If things are still not syncing , try the following . Delete all your previous conversations : <URL> that they had to delete all of their conversations before things would sync up . Make sure you have your phone number added to your <URL> .
Additionally to the OPlayer app suggested by @Jason Salaz I 've found several other apps that can connect to Windows smb shares : <URL> $ 14.99 <URL> $ 3.99 <URL> $ 3.99 <URL> $ 2.39 <URL> $ 15.99 Unfortunately I could n't find any free apps .
Answering my own question . I enabled the debug menu and then selected Reset Application , restarted the App Store and now the Download button shows up again . To enable the debug menu , open Terminal and run
It sounds like there 's a little confusion . Let me elaborate a little bit ... I used to be a Senior Advisor for Apple and this was by far the most common call . First , migrating to a new Apple ID can be difficult , but you can do it . To make sure all future purchases ask for your new Apple ID , go to Settings > iTunes &amp; App Store and then select your Apple ID . Is this your new one or your old one ? If it 's your old one , tap " Sign Out " and try signing in with your new one . All future purchases should then prompt you for your new Apple ID and password . However , keep in mind that any apps that you 've already downloaded with your old Apple ID will prompt you for that old Apple ID and password when the apps need to be updated . ( This is what everyone else is talking about ) . In order to never see or think about that old Apple ID again , you 'll need to delete those apps over time and re-purchase them on your new Apple ID . Second , it is imperative that you understand what email addresses are and are n't associated with each Apple ID . To check this out , go to id.apple.com and sign in to each of them . It is possible to have multiple emails associated with an Apple ID . It is also possible to have an " alternate Apple ID , " which basically means you can use either to sign in . One more thing -- with the announcement of iOS 8 , Apple IDs can be conjoined or paired using Family Sharing . It may just be more confusing , but check out the synopsis on Apple 's website <URL> .
You could state that your game is under development for iOS , and if you are waiting for approval you can state it is submitted to the App Store or that it is Waiting approval for the App Store . In Apples documentation it is known as ' <URL> '
In iPad Settings , go to General , then Reset , then " Erase All Contents and Settings " . The next thing you see ( after confirmation ) is the welcome screen as if just out of the box . Also : If shipping it you might want to power off by holding top and bottom buttons until you see the " slide to power off " slider . I recently sold my iPad 2 , cleared it to factory settings as described and powered off . Happy new owner received it with charge , ready to configure .
Assign to Space Go to the space you want the app to open in ( in your case the second space ) Right click your application 's dock icon Move your cursor to " Options " Under " Assign to " select " This Desktop " Window position and size control I Googled and found a solution for the resizing issue . <URL> Make your application launch via an Apple Script ! Make a script similar to this : Save it as " Application " Put the saved application in your Launch Items instead of the program itself Additionally you may undock it with <URL> to make this script run silently .
There really does n't seem to be a way to view this info at all on iOS 5 iPads , in Apple 's " Music " app . Further iPad iOS 5 podcast annoyances : If the main " Music " you listen to is podcasts , it 's really annoying that you can no longer promote the " Podcasts " button from " More " to the main view : so you always have to go to " More " to see your podcasts . If you have a mixture of video and audio podcasts , you have to switch between the " Videos " and " Music " apps to see them . For all these reasons , I gave up on the built-in iOS 5 podcast tools , and switched to <URL> . It costs a small amount of money , but has so many convenience features built in that it 's well worth it . ( It 's actually iPhone only - but works fine on iPad , at 2x size , even for showing videos ) I particularly like : It downloads the latest episode of shows you subscribe to , but seamlessly shows you earlier ones too , so you can easily stream them Automatic downloading via WiFi - so no more need to connect my device to a PC to update lots of podcasts Back and forward buttons to go move 30 seconds back or forwards - or you can change the settings , and make these buttons go back/forward 10 , then 20 then 30 seconds if clicked in quick succession . Small icon at top-right of screen shows/hide details of podcasts . Sleep facility ( 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , 90 minutes ) ( I 'd like to include a link to the original question here where I saw Podcaster first mentioned , but there are so many answers singing its praises , I really do n't remember which one I saw . ) Edit And to answer your question about Tiesto 's Club Life Podcast , yes , Podcaster displays that well . It shows the images as you listen , and at bottom-right of the screen there 's a little chapters icon that shows name of each chapter , and its position ( in minutes and seconds ) Furthermore , you can swipe upwards on the screen , when playing , to show the chapters .
Clearly : No . The simulator does not offer hardware access ( gyroscope , accelerometer , etc. ) and also , you just do n't get the feeling for your App , which is very important in iOS development . You ca n't use the gestures and you do n't know how it reacts if you work with it . so it is definitely not advisable . I tried to use the simulator in the beginning , but some frameworks do n't even run on it .
From : <URL> offers these examples : The TCP wrapper program in Mac OS X is :
I 'm the creator of gif text , an update is in review right now , there are about 20 + new gifs , and I 'm constantly making more . Another option is that you can create a folder in your photo album , and email yourself the gifs you want that are n't in my app , then you have access to as many as you want .
See <URL> for the solution to this problem : I headed over to the downloads page for Apple Developers to get the previous version of Xcode ( which is 4.4.1 ) . Downloaded the and mounted it . Right-clicked the to " Show Package Contents . " I quickly found what I was looking for in and copied to the same location in my . The full blog post has some more info .
end question
start question
How to obtain glyphs from the " Apple Symbols " font in Lion ?
Snow Leopard 's CharacterPalette.app still works on 10.7 : Those " iOS symbols " shown in the screenshot above are glyph variants that are specific to Apple Symbols . For example the turned arrow icon is a variant of Ꮿ . There does n't seem to be any way to show them in 10.7 's Character Viewer . You could also use Font Book to save a PDF file for all characters in a font :
Turns out I had an old version . The new , officially Lion compatible version from the <URL> works fine .
Try hyperswitch ( <URL> ) - you can switch between windows only from current desktop .
Enter Mission Control Hover over the selected space or hold & #x 2325 ; remove by clicking on the x
The " ~ " key is located between the " left shift " and " Z " keys on the international english keyboard . Many users are used to have this key under the escape key ( the US layout ) , and they ( including me ) use the <URL> software to swap those keys . Edit : KeyRemap4MacBook is now called <URL> . Here is a screenshot of the configuration I 'm using to remap Section to Backquote key . <URL> Edit : <URL> does not work on macOS Sierra , however a new project is in development : <URL> . As of now , it can do the replacement in question : <URL>
If you do not have a dev kit you can use other companies who build , release and manage subscriptions . One such comapny is <URL> However these options are generally very expensive . You are better off ( if you can create and develop the product yourself ) purchasing the SDK license ( $ 99 per year ) or failing that you can use <URL> to publish the Newsstand Magazine but that costs about $ 500 There is more information on <URL>
The Apple TV functionality is almost entirely tied to your Apple ID . I believe the Apple ID " nationality " is tied to the billing address and/or credit card on file . If the address is Canadian , you 'll have access to the Canadian iTunes and App stores , if it 's Norwegian , you 'll get the Norwegian stores . You can <URL> , but switching back and forth between two countries seems to be problematic ( you may only get access to the content from one country at a time , and it requires two billing addresses , or two iTunes accounts ) . Apple has a few useful articles you may want to look at , including the <URL> , the <URL> ( which allows you to re-download purchased content on a Mac or iOS device ) and <URL> . From the looks of it , the content and options available in the Canadian store is superior to that of the Norwegian store ( e.g. Norway does n't have any TV shows ) , so if it 's logistically feasible for you , it may be worthwhile to set up your iTunes account with a Canadian address and credit card ( or just buy a lot of iTunes credit in Canada ) .
Go to App Store or iTunes Store and scroll to the bottom , then pick your Apple ID . Select View Apple ID and log in with your current password . Pick Apple ID at the top and change your password , then press Done .
Same font , but Apple added a very subtle text-shadow and tweaked the bubble reflection . That 's the difference . iOS 4 iOS 5
Looks to me like it 's under System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Click on ' Login Options ' > then click ' Join ' button next to where it says " Network Account Server " . Then the dialog box that comes down allows you to enter the AD domain server there . Click Ok .
According to the <URL> page you can update from Snow Leopard ( 10.6.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) , or Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) later to Mavericks ( 10.9 ) if your hardware meets the requirements , which yours does . I upgraded my 2012 MacBook Air to Mavericks about two weeks ago and the battery life is noticeably better .
Snow Leopard 's CharacterPalette.app still works on 10.7 : Those " iOS symbols " shown in the screenshot above are glyph variants that are specific to Apple Symbols . For example the turned arrow icon is a variant of Ꮿ . There does n't seem to be any way to show them in 10.7 's Character Viewer . You could also use Font Book to save a PDF file for all characters in a font :
File > Export > Export Unmodified Original ... will export a full size image to the folder of your choice .
From the <URL> : 3.3 Checking and repairing NTFS file systems There is only limited support for checking and repairing NTFS file systems at this time . The best way to repair a damaged NTFS volume is using chkdsk in Windows . If you install NTFS-3G for Mac OS X , you will find that it includes a utility called ntfsfix , which can repair some fundamental inconsistencies of NTFS volumes . This utility is currently not integrated with the file system bundle , and thus ca n't be invoked through Disk Utility , because of reports that it has corrupted some users ' NTFS drives . If you want to try it out despite these warnings , you will have to invoke it manually , from the Terminal . Type " man ntfsfix " for usage info .
Same Answer as given <URL> : Basically you want to use the System Image Utility to create a bootable . dmg you can than put on a USB drive . Have a look at <URL> , it covers this process in detail ( you probably can leave out some steps ) ; this should get you started .
First , make sure you have the " Enable Apple remote plugin " box checked under settings . Also , make sure under Action settings > settings for predefined actions you have the right remote type selected . Then , simply create a new trigger with the remote 's play button and no action . It should disable the remote . ( You may have to restart both keynote and better touch tool for the effect to take place )
For many symbols or characters with diacritics ( e.g. accents ) you can press and hold a related key to insert variations . º - For the degree symbol , press and hold the 0 button ( on the mac you can press Option +0 [ zero , not letter o ] ) © - For the copyright symbol , on the mac the shortcut is Option + g. Unfortunately pressing and holding g on the iPhone/iPad does n't provide an option for the copyright symbol . As an alternative , you can use <URL> , or copy and paste the symbols from a note , email that you create on your computer .
I searched everywhere for a clean solution . Many solutions that worked for Lion and below no longer worked for Mountain Lion . However , this works and it took me hours to find . Enjoy ! <URL> From the website : In a search for a non-hacky way to disable direct mappings to iTunes for the play/pause/next / previous buttons in the keyboard in OSX , I stumbled across the " Remote control daemon " ( rcd ) . As it turns out , disabling the iTunes launch behavior for these keys is as easy as unloading rcd with the following command :
If both system are using the IMAP mail provider all you have to do is setup the connection to the mail server and all the emails and folders will be copied down to the windows computer . That is what IMAP is for . The mail stays on the server , and can be store on the local computer also , and when you connect to the server with another device , computer , phone or pad , all the mail with folders gets copied to the other device . But I think some of your mail was gotten using POP so it is not longer on the server . Or you have emails in local folder only and they would be on the server . But you can create folder on the server in one mail program , or on the mail web interface and then copy those emails into those folder on the server byt copying them in one of the email programs . Then when you log on with the other device all of them will be downloaded to the other device . Other alternative : - You can find various solutions on having a <URL> search for your problem . Or you can have a look at the following link : <URL>
Or change the shortcut to something else in System Preferences :
end question
start question
How can I set up multihoming ?
Got it . All you have to do is add multiple Ethernet interfaces in Network Preferences . And then just configure each one to the correct settings and you 're set to go . I tested this by hosting two different websites on two different IPs by multihoming my iMac and it worked ! System Prefs - > Network dialog Press the button and select the interface you want to add to ( you may need to go back and identify which one if you have multiple Ethernet ports ) . Name the service and press " Create " Configure the new service as you would a static ( manual ) interface Click " Apply "
I realise that this thread is probably quite old by now , but for all the options that has been given here , the simplest way has not been discussed . Apple allows you to lock your screen with a keyboard shortcut . You do n't have to create one , there is one built right in to OSX -- via the " Require password after sleep or screensaver " feature . Here is how to use it : Make sure that you have " Require password after sleep or screensaver begins " set to " immediately " . To do this , follow these steps : Open System Preferences Click on Security ( on Lion , " Security &amp; Privacy " ) Go to the General tab If you do n't already have one , put a tick in the box next to " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " Set the time interval to " immediately " Exit System Preferences When now when you want to lock your Mac , simply use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏
Yes , this can be done without OnyX . First head to System Preferences > Desktop &amp; Screen Saver > Screen Saver and select one of the screen savers included in OS X , or a third party screen saver that you 've previously installed . Whichever one you choose , just make sure it 's selected as the active screen saver , even if you have it set to never start in the " Start After " duration drop-down menu . Next , launch Terminal ( located in the Applications > Utilities folder ) , copy and paste the following command , and press the Return key on your keyboard to execute it : Source : <URL>
If you have a full keyboard you can use the pgup and pgdown keys on your keyboard , near the numpad . If you are not using a full keyboard , function , labeled fn on your keyboard , plus the up and down arrow keys will give you a page up and down .
I ended up with this problem , too , after upgrading from Snow Leopard to Lion . I really needed my F8 key working as a standard function key for my job . I also really did n't want to delete my entire symbolichotkeys plist , though , so I did some digging . If anyone else is having this issue still , you can edit your com.apple.symbolichotkeys.plist ( located in Library/Preferences ) with a basic text editor . Once you 're in there just do a search for the number 75 . Keys 75 and 76 ( 76 is the slow animation for when you hold down shift ) are the ones for F8 activating mission control . You can just delete those two entries and your F8 key will become just another normal F-Key again . F9 will still work for mission control and you wo n't lose any other hotkey settings either . As usual , always make a backup of these files when you 're messing with them . Good luck to anyone else with the issue , and thanks to those here who 'd already provided some input and answers .
You can option-click the shuffle button at the top of an album to queue it in a random order . Oddly , if I do that for the artist it only adds the first song in the list . Weird . And you ca n't intermingle different albums like this , you have to do that manually in the Up Next panel . Correction : if you go to Artists view , select All Artists and then option-click the shuffle button next to one of the artist names , it will queue all the songs by that artist in a random order . If you select an individual artist and do it , it will only queue the first song .
Under your System Preferences > Display , you 've got this Just drag the white bar to the other screen to set it as the main screen . You might have to do that every time you reboot / reconnect the external screen .
Well , here are a few things : 1 ) That OS X installation disk ( 10.6 ) , will only install Snow Leopard for your 2009 MBP You can not use that disk for OS X installs on other machines 2 ) Generally , the applications disk is nearly useless . Your milage may vary , but I 've never , ever used them . 3 ) Obviously your external drive ( USB you say ? ) will have to have enough space to boot the installation process . I 'd recommend 8 + GB if you will actually use this thing . However , you will only need a usb drive as large as the disk image file that we will create later on . So , lets get started . There are probably guides out there that have more comprehensive answers than this , but I digress . You need to use Disk Utility for the following steps . It should be in your Utilities folder . Put the OS X install disk into your Macbook , while your USB drive is also in the computer . Wipe your USB drive , and reformat it as Mac OS Journaled Create a disk image of the CD , saving it to your computer 's hard drive . Once you have created the disk image , it should be on the left pane of the Disk Utility window . Click on it , then select the ' Restore ' tab to the right . You will want the Source to be the disk image file ( the OS X install disk ) , and the Target to be the USB drive . Let me know how it goes ! Charlie
On my MBA - 10.9.4 the " on my mac " mail folders are in the The Library folder is hidden since OS X Lion , so use the Finder 's " Go To Folder " menu in the " Go " menu and enter that address .
The MacBook Air should have come with a bootable USB flash drive for OS reinstalls . Use that and follow the same steps as 10.5.x .
Short answer ... No . There is no public API that manages the " Do Not Disturb " feature . There are also no frameworks that can achieve this . Googling would also say it 's not the kind of sandbox breakout Apple would be likely to allow in the future , either .
If you are getting some strange error messages in your Terminal windows when they first open , that likely indicates a problem with your Terminal preferences . Try removing ( or just renaming ) the Terminal preferences file ( ) and then restarting the Terminal application . <URL> If you still have a problem , then look at what you have in your shell dot files : , , and the like . If you ca n't figure out what the problem is , try removing ( or just renaming ) those dotfiles . Another place to look for problems is the file under . This is the file that stores the default settings for Terminal windows . If all that fails , use Disk Utility to repair the permissions for Terminal . <URL>
Although I never usually have any luck finding them , I used MacWorld 's guide , " <URL> " , and I was able to find the hidden preference : Type the above into Terminal , replacing with the number of seconds you want the banner to last for , and press return . Then , log out and log back in to reload Notification Center .
The screensaver for the login screen is the one set for the root ( i.e. system ) user account . To launch System Preferences as root , use sudo ; a Terminal window run : Then you can change the screensaver settings as you normally would . Note that in order to use sudo , you needs to be an admin user .
As it turned out , I defined the Reminders list in the Automator service myself , so I could change it there . Stupid me !
I think this page explains what you have to do : <URL>
Yes you can delete anything in the Cache folder . There 's no unsaved things . Just cached data . Like renderinged things in the case of After Effects . In video editing software you can often define maximum cache size .
Yes , it is the whole virtual disk which gets saved , there is no binary diff .
It 's not so much your version of Apache/PHP have been reverted - it 's just the wrong version is loaded . If you have Mac OS X 's Web Sharing enabled it will auto enable the version of Apache and PHP Apple provides using the LaunchDaemon in ( this will override MacPorts version ) . You 'll want to disable this by either turning off Web Sharing in the Sharing Preference Pane or by running . When you installed Apache for MacPorts it installed a LaunchDaemon into which if enabled will start up the MacPorts version of Apache automatically . To enable it run and you 're off to the races . If you 're running to restart - make sure you 've selected the right version . You may need to alter your $ PATH to have before As for what version of PHP is being used ; on the command line this will depend on your $ PATH while for Apache it 's entirely in your configuration of where the libphp5 module is . ( for the built in version , for the version MacPorts installed )
Unfortunately not ; Not without using another router with network Access Control Lists ( ACL ) . Airport 's Timed Access Control rejects all connection attempts to the access point from selected device based on it 's MAC address . It does n't give you any options for more granular Access Level Control in order to specify network resources the device will have access to ; as you have probably noticed by now , you only have control over scheduling . A solution to your issue would unfortunately involve buying another router that will allow for configuring ACL to the degree you need it to .
end question
start question
Is there a procedure to report a buggy iOS app in the app store ?
The programmatic and direct feedback channels to Apple and the developer are as follows : Report a problem from the purchase summary in iTunes on a computer . This also is useful if you wish to ask for a refund in the case where the app was paid and does n't function in your judgement . There is a general problem link in the store as well as a link to developer support . These are best for technical or minor bugs that do n't ruin the app experience or if you expect it to get fixed and continue to use the app . You can write a formal review that Apple may eventually publish detailing why you feel the app is buggy or non-confomant with design guidelines or rules . You can rate the app in stars Those three procedures are standard ways to provide feedback about buggy apps or problematic purchases . Deleting the app sends less formal feedback as your devices stop asking for updates to that title .
You could state that your game is under development for iOS , and if you are waiting for approval you can state it is submitted to the App Store or that it is Waiting approval for the App Store . In Apples documentation it is known as ' <URL> '
The answer is yes , Apple is rejecting the apps that let the user input iBeacon UUID . If you fetch an uuid from a server , that would probably result in the same problem . Just a quote from an article about this issue : We 've been receiving reports that Apple has recently taken its " lock down " of UUID scanning a step further . Before , you needed to specify the UUID numbers you were scanning for in your app , but you could also manually input those numbers . But now , Apple is rejecting apps that have this functionality . Awwapps is one of the documented cases of this rejection : " With the upcoming updates of our iBeacon apps Launch Here and Travel Radar we will remove the option to manually add and edit iBeacon credentials ( UUIDs , Major ID , Minor ID ) . This is not our choice . We do this to keep the apps in the App Store . We 'll do our best to come up with other options to add your iBeacons -- better options ... We will improve on this and extend support to more iBeacon vendors ... Please note that a general scanning of all iBeacons around is not possible on iOS . We rely on your input to cover all commonly used iBeacons . " Source : <URL> Why : Apple decided this for security reason . That allows developers to prevent their ibeacons of being used by others companies . Why it 's not a big deal : Most beacons constructors set up their beacons with the same UUID . So the most commons beacons may still be found , unless the UUID was changed for security reasons . For example , by default , the UUID for all the iBeacons built by Estimote is " B9407F30-F5F8-466E-AFF9-25556B57FE6D " . You then rely on the " major " and " minor " id sent by the beacon to develop your application . iBeacons are n't invisible : It 's possible on Android devices to develop an application able to see all the iBeacons in range , and to get it published on the Play Store without any trouble . On iOS , it 's still technically possible that an application may let the user input the UUID value , it just wo n't be approved by the App Store . And of course , the iBeacons still emits Bluetooth data that still physically exists in the air .
The Apple discussions thread <URL> is exactly what your are looking for : No . An adult would have to do that for you . To have a developer account you must be 18 or older . ... You can always start a corporation and the individual age restriction is not relevant anymore .
Try searching your email for the string : Here 's an example email receipt I received from the iTunes App Store which included an in-app purchase ( in this case , an X-Men comic from the comiXology app ) :
<URL> is the canonical bug reporting mechanism . Once you have submitted an issue , it will be given a " radar " number and you will be treated to possibly the most archaic customer-facing bug reporting interfaces on the planet . You will want to first select a developer account and agree to Apple 's terms . In your case , the free of cost Safari developer program might be very useful if you care to know what changes are in store for Safari . <URL>
As you state , VLC has been pulled from the app store because of incompatibility issues between its GNU license and the AppStore DRM . If you have already bought it ( even at 0 cost ) you can still use it under the same account used to buy it . Because of DRM , apps can not be shared between users , so you can not use an . ipa from other user , just your own . If its your case , VLC is available as a Cydia download for jailbroken devices . Otherwise there are good alternatives for a few bucks . You might wan na check out these : GoodPlayer ( $ 2.99 ) CineXPlayer ( $ 3.99 ) I 've used GoodPlayer and it works as expected , allowing you to play almost anything without reencoding .
If explicit you should have a little E next to the title
The currently playing song shows up in a horizontal now playing bar . Click the three dots on the right hand side of the bar . Click on the album name at the top of the pop up menu .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
If you mean taking software that you do not hold copyright to , and which you are only allowed to use and copy because it was licensed under the GNU GPL , then no . The <URL> : section 6 of the GPL says " You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients ' exercise of the rights granted herein " , and the Mac App Store Terms of Service explicitly add other restrictions . The <URL> confirmed this : the App Store agreements , on all platforms , are incompatible with the GNU GPL . Apple seems to be disallowing GPL programs in the App Store as a matter of policy , but if you managed to sneak one through , then the author of the program could go after you for violating their copyright . A completely different case is where you hold the copyright to a piece of software . In that case , you are welcome to distribute it under more than one license . ( For example , Firefox was for a while licensed under the MPL , GPL , and LGPL . MySQL is licensed under the GPL and also a proprietary license . ) So if you sell a program through the Mac App Store , you can also release it under the GPL -- assuming you are allowed to do each of these things independently . ( If you wanted to use somebody else 's GNU GPL-licensed code in one of the App Stores , you could write to the copyright holder and see if they 're willing to sell you an alternative license to their software . They 're under absolutely no obligation to do this , of course . ) VLC ran into trouble ( I think ) because copyright for the software was held by many different people , and the whole program was only allowed to be distributed under the GPL . Some programs sidestep such issues by requiring contributors to <URL> to them , but most do n't .
<URL> provides most of what I 'm looking for . The developer explains in his FAQ that Apple places restrictions on the number of notifications allowed and when they can repeat . However , the app includes the ability to repeat reminders as well as to " snooze " and/or " postpone " them when they sound .
Is it mandatory to have an MFi device , to download an app for the Mfi device ? No . For instance you can download the <URL> apps and use them in demo mode without owning or attaching the hardware MFi device they interface with . You keep asking specifically about MFi devices , but there are also a number of non-MFi devices that connect through the headphone jack , such as credit card readers ( square , intuit , and others ) and heart rate monitors ( 60beat . com ) . So far Apple has allowed many of these devices and apps to be developed and sold in the app store , although they prefer people use the MFi program , it 's not always necessary .
To get an app for free ( if you did n't get the choice to pick None as payment option ) you should open your installed ITunes program . Then from within the program go to ITunes Store and pick any free app and try to buy it ( Google Translate or some other one ) . It will tell you to login/register into ITunes . If you create account from there you will have a choice to pick None as payment option . This worked for me several times for my customers .
No , the name of your app as it appears in the App Store must be unique . When creating your app , you will receive the following error if you try to use a name that is already taken : The Application Name that you provided has already been used . Please provide a unique Application Name . But the name on the icon can be whatever you want - it can be the same as another app 's icon name . Source : <URL>
Quit app . Delete folder . To avoid still display you have downloaded x bytes of y bytes , four solutions : Disregards . Kill process ( type into ) . Logout / login . Reboot . With Lion it 's shadowed under random folder . Well ... Open Launchpad . Find your app . Keep alt key down . Click on cross to delete it .
No , this option does n't exist . ( Perhaps because it would be to some extent a security risk . ) You might remain signed in for a short period of time , but you ca n't automatically log yourself in .
Yes . Open the App Store and scroll to the bottom of the featured tab . Tap on your Apple ID and select " View Apple ID " . The tap Ratings and Reviews :
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
One solution I 've come up with may be to convert the PDF document to individual JPG images , then sync those ' photos ' via iTunes . They can then be viewed individually or as a slide show . Caveats are : limited resolution once iTunes downsamples the photos for syncing slideshow stops once you zoom in or manually disrupt it : ideally would like it to automatically continue ( hoping there is a better slide show app to do this ... )
end question
start question
What is the license on mac wallpapers ?
Here is the Mountain Lion end user license agreement that is your best starting point for what Apple feels it has actually sold you for your money . <URL> Of course , you 'll want a lawyer to give you advice on what is customary , but the artwork is n't explicitly called out as something you are prohibited from using commercially . However , you would want to be very sure of trademark infringement issues if a reasonable person would recognize that you are re-using Apple 's works for commercial benefit . I personally would steer clear of using this and pay someone to provide you with your work or grab thing that are shared more explicitly under a creative commons license . Apple does indicate that you can use fonts under some restrictions ( make something with them - do n't just resell them ) and you will see in the application specific licenses that in general you do n't get intellectual property rights to any assets included in the software unless it 's called out explicitly as done for <URL> . The obvious uses like loops for music software are given knowledge base articles , but items like wallpaper do n't get an article and you are expected to be able to read the license and perhaps between the lines of what the licenses do n't say . Basically , you probably have n't been granted the right to re-use the assets , so use common sense if you do n't know it 's OK or have asked for permission to use it . You might find out that Apple has licensed these and you can use them , but I do n't see any wording to call this out in the license terms .
I 've used both , bought Versions in the end . They were both about equal in my use cases . What really helped was adding <URL> to my tool box and using it for diffs instead of the XCode diff engine or the simple diff engine in Versions .
There is no " good " answer for this , but here 's the best I can figure out . Once you are on the call and muted : make sure you are on the screen that displays the mute/addcall/facetime / contacts buttons ( I 'll call this the " mute screen " from hereonout ) click the top button that turns off and locks the phone when you need to unmute , you can click the on/off or home button and swipe right . at this point you will see the " mute screen " and you can unmute . this only works once as far as I can tell . Once you have done this once , the next time the phone locks and you need to unmute , swiping right will not display the mute screen , but will just display your passcode pad as usual . NOTE : in order for this to work at all , the screen MUST BE the mute screen when you click the top on/off button . If you are on any other screen when the phone locks , this will not work even one time , as far as I can tell . I hope this is helpful . As usual with Apple , basic functionality is omitted for no discernible reason . " YOU ARE N'T I-TELEPHONING RIGHT . "
You 're probably looking for Skype 2.8.0.866 ( PPC ) , which you can find searching the <URL> website . It was released on 29 November , 2010 . Supported Systems : Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard ( PowerPC )
It turns out higher impedance headphones will produce very low sound on MacBooks . For this reason headphones with an ohms rating above 80 may not be suitable , and would require a headphone amplifier to function properly . Something like the <URL> could get the job done at the expense of some portability , although it would allow such headphones to be used with most portable devices too like iPods , iPhones , and iPads .
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
great question ... I 've been looking for a tool that will allow me to emulate TouchCursor for Windows on the mac for a long time . Tried <URL> , DoubleCommand , and some others that I ca n't remember right now :) KeyRemap4Macbook seemed to be closest to what I needed , but I could never get around to configuring it how I wanted it . Your mileage may vary . Check out <URL> that gives some of the aforementioned programs and start playing :)
The shift modifier has been around for most animated sequences since at least Panther ( 10.3 ) . I do n't know that there was ever an official reason given but it 's widely assumed that it was built in at the request of Steve Jobs in order for him to highlight Expose ' as he announced it to the world at the 2003 World Wide Developers Conference . You can see this announcement here , with the slow motion effect being used for the first time around the 2:00 min mark . <URL> Given the crowd 's reaction I think it 's clear why Apple did n't remove it from the final version . It 's always been one of those little easter eggs that Mac users use to impress their PC using friends . So there you go , no practical purpose , just a bit of fun for Apple . You can also use shift to slow down most functions that have an animation . Minimizing windows , opening Mission Control , etc. .
Basically you need a <URL> , some of them was made specially for use with Apple mouses : <URL> They say it 's made by company located at Cupertino , California . Also it works ( as a surface ) . <URL> It 's basically just a piece of finished aluminum and I guess it will feel the same as a top surface MacBook . <URL> says that something 's weird with their delivery , but maybe it 's <URL> . It 's also reviewed on <URL> . <URL> They clim it 's made exclusively for Apple products and there are a couple of positive reviews on Youtube for this one <URL> and <URL> . They say that the surface is pleasant on touch . a Better Table Consider finding a better table than one that you use now . Just grab your MacBook and mouse and go furniture shop that you like and find a table which fits you the best . You will get biggest possible working surface and as a bonus you can improve ergonomics of your workplace . And of course keep your table clean ( I know it 's hard . I have a cat :) .
I find the best way to install Node.js is to use <URL> , which allows you to install and manage multiple versions of Node . I use Homebrew for pretty much everything else , but Node is easier to use through nvm , since it does n't use global folders - everything is in your home directory , and you can easily switch between Node versions . To install ( check the website for the latest version ) : There are some specific notes about OS X on the web site , please make sure to read through those , e.g. regarding the use of the file . After that , the function will allow you to specify which version of node to install and use . In the simplest case , you run which will install the stable version of Node.js .
That is the Option key ( Alt on Windows ) . It 's not the same as shift - it 's generally used as a secondary modifier for keyboard shortcuts ( Command being the primary modifier ) and for shortcuts that do n't perform an action ( Option-8 is a bullet point and Option-Shift-8 is a degree symbol ) .
On Apple hardware , yes - <URL> . Otherwise , no - it 's a violation of the EULA .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
Having no password on the OS level effectively means that ssh is disabled for that user . The protocol insists on a non-zero password and thus the hashes of whatever password is supplied fails to match the absence of a hash . You must supply ssh keys or otherwise arrange some authentication to log in should your account have no password .
These files are stored in / . MobileBackups / and / . DocumentRevisions-V100 / . I am very surprised that your backup is so large - my Backups are only 300MB ! According to the Time Machine preference pane , TM will " keep local snapshots as space permits " . Do you have a lot of spare disk space ? Since these folders are owned by root , to check the size of these folders you 'll need to use sudo , or log in as root user . E.g. the command line commands :
It 's a real-time scanning process by <URL> that scans your computer 's running processes in the background . The parent process is so that when you accidentally kill the process , it gets restarted .
What I was looking for turns out to be the <URL> called The <URL> that along with <URL> forms the <URL> of the OSX . <URL> seems to be the interface that routes requests from applications that use the X11 framework to the Quartz Compositor .
So it 's been a long time since I originally posted this question . I did n't update my RAM ( although I 'm thinking about it ) , but I changed my hard drive to a Samsung SSD . The change is radical . The computer is not slow at all anymore . There are no more " freezing " , and it takes exactly 15 seconds to boot , instead of something like 1 minute or more . Any application opens almost instantly . It seems like I just bought my mac . If you want to speed up your mac ( or PC ) , you should definitely buy an SSD . I also did a clean install and copied whatever I needed from a backup . As I said , I 'm thinking of adding some RAM . I currently have 4GB but I want to buy 8GB or 16GB . I 'll let you know then , if it works or not . Please upvote this answer so that everyone can see it !
Unless you 're planning on running an extremely heavy loaded ftp server ( which the mini wo n't be able to handle anyway ) the built in FTP Server should be enough . Pure-ftpd is a classic in the unix world and I 'm sure you can of course make that run under OSX , but it does n't have a " UI " , it 's all command line . ( But very easy to configure anyway ) .
From the <URL> : CUPS is the standards-based , open source printing system developed by Apple Inc. for OS X and other UNIX ® - like operating systems . On OS X it provides local printer services as well as shared printer services for other Macs to access your printer via the service if the printer does n't have its own sharing capabilities . CUPS has become fairly ubiquitous across the Linux/UNIX contingent of OSes as the print server if choice . That open port you found is because printer sharing is turned on on your machine . You can close port via and uncheck .
end question
start question
How to show the map in Photos ?
It does not appear that there is a way to see ALL photo locations on a map at one time , aside from a small Info window . Here 's what you need to do : For the small info window that shows all locations : 1 . Go to the Albums tab in Photos 2 . Right-click on " All Photos " - > Get info 3 . Note the small window has a map included which you can zoom in/out of For maps that vary by date : Go to View menu - > Metadata - > Location Go to the Photos tab and zoom all the way out to Years Note that there are locations next to the year . Click on the location name
<URL> For all my tracking needs I 've become a fan of Kinetic . Accuracy is good . The customizable screens mean you can tailor the view for the activity . For example : I have a simple screen for when I ride my bike that 's easy to access when I 'm moving fast , versus a more complicated screen I 'll use on hikes . The routes are <URL> in formats that Google Earth and Maps will happily read ( like <URL> ) .
According to 9to5mac : Details of the file format were <URL> after speaking with an iPhone product manager , and are consistent with a brief description in <URL> . The docs do n't go into details , but it seems like it 's just a set of files : The data of a Live Photo is exported as a set of files in a PHAssetResource object . The set of files must be preserved as a unit when you upload them to a server . It 's a bit disappointing , because they does n't sound very interoperable or convenient .
I just solved my question . As it turns out , the password is stored in the Keychain Access . I just searched for the server and ticked the " Show password " checkbox on that particular item . Problem solved !
I do n't know if by " Today 's View " you actually mean the iOS 9 " Todays View " or the Calendar Widget . To activate the Calendar Widget scroll to the end of your Notification Center and touch " Edit " and add the Calendar Widget . Now , regarding how the info of your next appointments on the Calendar Widget will look like , it depends on how you present them on the actual Calendar App . As you can see in the pictures bellow , on the left you have a relative presentation of the events and on the right an absolute presentation . I hope this clarifies things a bit . <URL>
since software update 3.0 you can select multiple photos copy them and paste it as email body , in iOS you can SHARE it as email .
If the drive is appearing in Disk Utility and shows up as being mounted , try this : In the Finder , go to the Finder menu , then Finder Preferences , then General and be sure " external disks " is checked under " Show these items on the desktop " . Then on the Sidebar screen and be sure " external disks " is checked under " Show these items in the sidebar . " This should make the drive appear .
If you have a Mac , connect your iPhone to it . There is a build in app ( from Apple ) called <URL> in your Applications folder . Use it to bulk delete Photos on iPhone .
The last 1000 photos and 30 days are , via the photo stream . Apple details <URL> . But this should be seen as a temporary solution .
To show various drive icons on the desktop use the following commands in Terminal : External hard drives : Hard drives : Removable media : ( To complete all options available in the Finder preferences : mounted servers :) Afterwards restart the Finder : To disable showing the respective desktop icons simply replace true by false
The only difference between those two categories is how iTunes groups things by default . In the Movies view , there 's not grouping . All movies are displayed alphabetically by default . In the TV Show view things are grouped by show -- so you get a single icon for each show and you drill down to access the episodes within the show .
There 's dreadfully few tweaks that can be applied to Dock , and none of the ones I know can modify the behavior of a single click on an app icon . What I would do in this situation is to assign a special gesture , say a four-finger click , to an applescript . The applescript will perform the task you want , which , in this case , is to bring up only the window of the app under cursor . To do this , you do n't know need to know how to write a script - the script is here . You however need to know how to create custom gestures , enable Accessibility , etc. . The best way to do this is the app BetterTouchTool . This script essentially find the app icon under cursor , right-click it for you , and click the window item with a check mark to its left . You will see the contextual menu flash for a brief second . This script is tested on Yosemite .
iOS does not have an option for this , nor does apple approve apps which alter the status bar . If you want this function you will have to jailbreak your iOS device and install a third party status monitor . As pointed out in another answer , LockInfo does this . SBSettings used to , but no longer does . If you 're running an iOS 4.x device , OpenNotifier might be useful as it does this as well as give you pull-down notifications similar to android and iOS 5 . If you 're developing for this device , however , you can add this function yourself . As a developer you can run custom code without jailbreaking the device - you just ca n't submit that code to the app store . The trick , then , is going to be finding example code for this feature . I expect someone in the jailbreaking community will have some info on what the code needs to do , and if you 're lucky you 'll find an open source project for it . Then you can compile and sign it yourself , and as long as you keep your ad-hoc license current and recompile/re-sign it yearly , you can use it on your personal devices . I think a lot of developers overlook the fact that they can run any code they want on their own devices without jailbreaking . They can also distribute such apps in a limited manner to their friends using adhoc distribution as well . It looks like OpenNotifier is open source , and has the functionality you need : <URL> I do n't know much about the status of the project , but it might be usable for you as a developer to bring this functionality to your devices .
Or you could follow the advice of Red Sweater <URL> and use AppleScript + FastScript/Sparkle . If you follow the link everything is explained in details .
<URL> CleanMyMac 2 has an <URL> . It will scan your library and give you the ability to delete photos that have been cropped , resized , rotated , or otherwise edited . By default , it will delete the photos that have been rotated and/or with fixed Red-Eye , however you can also choose to delete the originals of any photos that have been edited in any way . I have used this multiple times , and it 's worked great , although it 's worth noting that in the Rebuilding Library stage , it might appear that it 's crashed , but it 's still going - it does take a very long time !
Drag the photos from the album to your photo stream . Careful though ; I did this and ca n't find a way to undo what I 've added to my photo stream !
With the help of Growl 's <URL> about AppleScript support and a little discussion with <URL> and <URL> in the <URL> onto the question I 've come up with the following AppleScript . I 've saved this script as an application agent which you can add to your login items in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Users &amp; Groups & #x 2192 ; Login Items . Basically , this application works by detecting if a unique executable related to using the camera is being accessed . Whenever the executable is accessed , the application will notify about it to Growl : <URL> It 's important to know that this script monitors access to the executable ... Full script
The only way to stop burst mode during timer photos is to turn the flash . When the flash is the camera will only take 1 picture . My recommendation is to provide feedback to Apple <URL> and let them know how you feel about this limitation .
Currently , year view is the highest level you can view a map for . With iOS 10 , this is expanded to viewing all photos together on the map , but iOS 10 is not available yet at the time of writing .
System Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard > Show Keyboard , Emoji &amp; Symbol viewers in menu bar . <URL>
end question
start question
How can I access emails in Apple Mail programmatically ?
One can do this . The following shows what I 've found ... Individual emails reside in a directory , typically something like the following : as " . emix " files readable by any text editor . " . emix " files have a sequential numbering by mails received by one 's itself rather than the particular mailbox , something like : The " . emix " files have clearly marked identifiers of their content . An abridged " . emix " file follows : : So , given all of this one needs to : Identify which email one wants to read ( I can use date and a specific email directory ) ; Import the text of the email into Mathematica ; Parse the required information using the appropriate identifiers in the " . emix " file . A little cumbersome , but workable .
The historical data ( other than the last summary data for each activity ) is available in two places by default : On the paired iPhone - you can use the activity app to review your workouts as well as going into health app to review data . On the watch itself - you can look at today 's workout ( s ) in the Activity app , but not go back in time as of Watch OS 2.0
There are more than a few options out there , but I would recommend <URL> . It 's a pretty powerful program that allows you do do all sorts of different scripting and macro tasks , as well as configure hot keys . I use it to make more advanced hot keys configurations than System Preferences can do , as well as run scripts , handle my extra mouse buttons ( I can configure them on a per-app basis without extra drivers ) . I suggest you download the trial and test it out . It will certainly do what you need , but you may find it useful for many other things . One thing I do suggest when you try it out is to disable all the default macros , as they can be a bit confusing and override default system behaviour . Then take some time to figure out what it can do and what will be useful .
There is no Apple supported programming interface to simulate the lid being closed . You can put your Mac to <URL> :
After looking through the updates to Mail in Mavericks , it looks like I have bad news . There does not appear to be any way to disable Mail in Mavericks from storing local copies of messages ( of course , you can save some space by preventing Mavericks from storing local copies of attachments ) . If you are hard-pressed for space to the point where a few GB of local mail storage is of particular concern , then your best bet is likely either to use an email service which supports automatic message archiving ( so that you can search through an archive which is stored on the server , thus freeing space on your machine that the archived messages would have taken ) or routinely remove messages from your inbox and store them elsewhere ( e.g. , on a NAS ) . As it seems your goal is to have your messages readily accessible for search and other purposes , the first option is probably more likely to suit your needs . One possible way to set up the second option ( i.e. , routinely moving messages out of your inbox ) might work well for you . What you 'll want to do is create a rule which automatically forwards your email to a second account ( what email service you use for this account is entirely up to you ) and then deletes the forwarded email from your inbox ( you could have this done automatically once the messages is read/a certain numbers of days old or via a keyboard shortcut , whichever is preferable ) . This way , your local storage will remain small ( only unread messages or recent messages , depending upon how you configure your rule ) , but the external account will have a complete archive of your messages . You can then access this archive in your browser without impacting available local free space .
You ca n't do this in Lion . <URL> if you want to be able to do this .
EDIT : Legally it 's extremely unlikely that you are allowed to do that as @fbara explained in his/her answer , but you can definitely give it a try and worst case I 'd expect the app to be kicked off the store . Seeing as other apps have already done this successfully its not impossible to get done , just not as reliable as using your own assets . Since icons are nothing more than just an image , yea its definitely possible . Now about whether or not apple will allow you to use the emojis , I did n't find anything saying that you can or can not use them . However there are countless apps which already do so , so I assume it should be fine . <URL> Removed line 1 as it probably doesnt answer what the question really was asking
Mail.app > Preferences > Viewing > uncheck " Load remote content in messages " You will then have this banner at the top of each message that contains remote content ( just in case you do want to see the images ) : Aside : I still see the occasional image in a message when looking through my spam folder . As best I can tell when I " view raw source " the spammers are including the image in the message text itself ( there is a large block of text that looks like gibberish to me ) , but I 'm not an expert on what is going on there . It might just be a bug in this feature .
If you do n't have other accounts in Mail.app , simply delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , open the V2 folder inside the above path , and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
Almost all of the <URL> exists in several places . That being said , you want the unofficial <URL> guide put together by <URL> . He also has a fabulous book on the iBook store titled <URL> . Xcode is the tool that links into these libraries and allows you to search across the various user guides , developer guides , language specifications , code examples and such . Here is Xcode ( with 10.6 and 10.7 documentation sets ) and a quick AppleScript search . Xcode makes it easier to bookmark , search and use the documentation rather than just browsing in Safari since it will download the whole Of the 232 matches in the System Guides - about 10 cover AppleScript in depth - the rest refer to how programs make themselves available to be scripted by AppleScript .
Two options : ( 1 ) using <URL> ( formerly KeyRemap4Macbook ) which you already have installed , or ( 2 ) using <URL> which allows more flexible remapping . Maybe you have an older version without this capability , but update to the latest version of Karabiner and you will see an " F10 to Volume Mute " remap option . <URL> For this problem , BetterTouchTool also works well . Although it 's primarily focused on mapping trackpad gestures to various actions , it also allows remapping of keyboard keys . This is a bit more flexible than Karabiner for this example , since it does n't require the exact preset you want to already exist . <URL>
The challenge is that Gmail uses " Labels " to attach to messages , and messages can have zero or more than one label , while IMAP puts messages in folders ( Inbox , Trash , etc ) and every message is in one , and only one folder . Thus , when Mail.app tells the Gmail server to delete a message from the Inbox the Gmail server can not reliably tell if it should just remove the " Inbox " label from that message ( leaving it with one fewer label , possibly still having other labels , or maybe no label but still avaialbe in the " All Mail " view ) or if it should more permanentaly remove the message completely from the database . The " fix " is to setup Gmail to not show the messages in multiple IMAP folders ( by turning off the " All Mail " folder ) and to also have the Gmail servers " expunge " the message when the Mail.app tells it so rather than doing it " automatically " , even though that ( default ) setting on the Gmail server seems to imply that the " auto " setting would be what was desired . I have not tested ALL of these settings ( I mostly rely on the " 30 days in the trash " feature of Gmail to empty things : <URL> ) and I have only recently updated to " El Capitan " but things do not seem any different from my Yosemite , Mavericks and earlier experiences . The way the system works seems to be the same using either a " regular " @gmail . com account or a " Goodle Apps for Domains " @yourdomain . com account . I do however have things set so that email does get put into the trash properly on the Gmail side of things , and it looks like there are settings available to delete things immediately and it works on my system in the way I want it too . So the detailed instructions are : At <URL> log in to your account and select the following : " Settings " - > " Forwarding and IMAP " Check " Enable IMAP " For " When I mark a message in IMAP as deleted " Check " Auto-Expunge off - Wait for the client to update the server . " For " When a message is marked as deleted and expunged from the last visible IMAP folder " Check " Immediately delete the message forever " ( I have my system set up to " Move the message to the Trash " and rely on the 30 days mentioned above ) You need to select the " Save Changes " button at the bottom for this to take effect . These settings will only invoke the deletion ( or move to Gmail Trash ) when the message no longer has any Gmail tags associated with it , or in other words , when an IMAP client removes the message from all of the IMAP folders . Since one of the " folders " that can be displayed in a Gmail IMAP client is " All Mail " , just deleting a message from the Inbox of the IMAP client will not cause it to go bye-bye . Thus we need to limit the " Labels " / " Folders " that Gmail exposes as IMAP folders : On Gmail select the following : " Settings " - > " Labels " Check the " Show in IMAP " checkbox for " Inbox " , " Sent Mail " , and " Spam " and UNCHECK the " Show in IMAP " checkbox for all of the other " System Labels " . Any user generated non-system label can be set to " Show in IMAP " . Note that unckecking the " All Mail " " Show in IMAP " checkbox might make a whole bunch of email that has no other labels ( is in no other IMAP folder ) no longer be visible in Mail.app or any other IMAP client . Using the Gmail web interfact to search up these " orphaned " messages and adding the Inbox label or some other label that is shown in IMAP would make them visible again to Mail.app . With the Gmail system set in this manner , I find that the best Mail.app settings to use are to have the " Mail " - > " Preferences " - > " Accounts " set up for the Gmail account in question set so that " Mailbox Behaviors " is set to only " Store on the Server " for the " Sent " and " Junk " mailboxes . I have those two boxes checked , and have the boxes for " Drafts " and " Trash " unchecked . These two need to be unchecked because we have set the Gmail server to not expose those boxes as IMAP folders . I only rarely go to the Gmail web interface , doing almost all of my interactions with Gmail through Mail.app or the iOS Gmail app . Some of these settings might have alternative setups if one did a lot of website interactions . For Mark 's desired outcome of deleting the messages immediately , the above settings should work - when a message is moved or deleted from the Gmail Inbox and Spam folders , it should immediately be deleted from the Gmail server . The message could still be available in Apple 's trash can , but that is not linked to the server 's trash can . ( If the " Move the message to the Trash " setting was set on the Gmail server , the server will move it to the server 's trash and thirty days later it will be gone ) . I do not know if Mail.app will send the " expunge " signal to the Gmail servers immediately , or only after the local Mail.app trash has been emptied , or on some other syncronization schedule . An alternative might be to have the Gmail server expose the server trash an an IMAP folder and have Mail.app store the trash on the server . With the " Immediately delete the message forever " server setting set , this should behave
Apps can hook into the sharing options with the new <URL> API . It <URL> custom LaunchBar actions can be made with any UNIX executable file , so you could probably write a small command line tool ( or you may need to build an actual app -- you 'll have to test it out ) which activates this API ( using ) , and that should display the tweet dialog . Update : to initiate a tweet from AppleScript , you can do the following : Furthermore , you can toggle the " Show Alerts and Banners " / do not disturb mode : ( This is all very specific to the current window layout of Notification Center and is likely to break with future OS X updates -- but there will probably be easy fixes . )
Krumelur Mail.app used to be able to see Public Folders on Exchange , but no longer has this ability . Outlook 2011 and Entourage both support this feature .
To illustrate the point made in the comments , just drag the icon ( or the inlined image ) from the mail body to wherever you want :
You ca n't do this in the OS X Mail client . Mail.app will download all your emails available on the server . The workaround is to make the change on the server . You mention that you have Gmail , therefore you can go to Gmail 's IMAP settings and restrict the amount of emails available ( for example , the most recent 1000 ) . Also , you can exclude labels from being visible to IMAP , therefore Mail wo n't download the contents .
Sharing must be enabled . To see the Mac from your PC 's , enable File Sharing ( System Preferences/Sharing/File Sharing ) . You will need to take the additional step of enabling Samba sharing , since PC 's do n't use Apple 's File sharing Protocol ( AFP ) . Do this by then clicking on options , and make sure " Share files and folders using SMB ( Windows ) " is checked . Turn it on for whichever accounts you wish to authorize . In order to see PC shares from your Mac , the PC 's must be on the same network , with sharing enabled . Share a folder or something . Is it XP , Vista , 7 ? If it 's XP , disable Simple File Sharing . Do so by opening a folder , going to Tools - > Options , and find it at the bottom of View . Then right-click a folder , go to Sharing and Security , and enable sharing . If it still does n't show up , you may have a network/firewall issue , and it warrants further help . . but try that to get you started .
No , there is no such functionality on Apple Watch as standard as there are no text fields for entering text other than dictation .
There is not an always deny functionality in keychain . Put another way , there is a white list but not a black list . A somewhat elegant workaround is to turn off AutoFill of passwords in Safari 's preferences and you wo n't even get the request to access the keychain in the first place .
These apps ( and the full screen mode ) require APIs that are not available on versions prior to Lion . Even if one could purchase Mail separately , it would n't run .
end question
start question
How to store Mac documents in the iCloud ?
You can not treat iCloud as some sort of internet filesystem like Dropbox . The only way to place data into the iCloud system is via an iCloud enabled app . There is no generic way to access your iCloud files except via the application that put the files there in the first place . So , in order to use iCloud , use iCloud enabled apps . Use the same apps on 2 or more Macs , and that is how you share docs/data . I 'm not sure when the Mac iWork apps will get iCloud , I suspect in the next version which is now sorely overdue .
Short answer : no . Longer answer : maybe , but probably not yet . Most of the iCloud pieces integrated into iTunes are for iTunes/App Store content . You can re-download all your purchased music and TV ( not sure about movies yet ? ) , but it does n't sync playlists , and outside of the US ( guessing you 're in Canada given the Telus mention ) you 're out of luck at the moment due to separate content deals . Eventually with iTunes Match , you 'll be able to get non-iTunes music from iCloud for a fee ( $ 25/year ) , but it 's not coming until November in the US , and later for the rest of us . It 's not clear how iTunes Match will deal with playlists , but if it 's like the current system for transferring purchased music , it probably wo n't sync playlists , just give you all the music in one heap . Your best bet is to just copy your iTunes directory ( ~ / Music/iTunes on the Mac ) , including the iTunes Library.itl and . xml files to the default iTunes folder on your new PC . If you do n't already have all your media files in the iTunes directory , you 'll probably want to do that if you have the space , to make things simpler when transferring . iTunes will do the rearranging for you , just go to File & #x 2192 ; Library & #x 2192 ; Organize Library and check Consolidate files .
Yes , you do have to re-buy to get updates via the Mac App Store . Via <URL> : The Mac App Store may show software bought from us previously as " Installed " , even though they 're two different licenses . You will not get Mac App Store auto-updates unless you purchase from the Mac App Store . To re-enable the " Purchase " button in the Mac App Store , just drag the app to the trash . Your preferences/sites will not be affected . In other words , for apps that use the same bundle ID for the both the Mac App Store and non-App Store versions , the Mac App Store will not install updates to already-installed non-App Store versions , but it will recognize them as being already installed . If you want to get updates via the Mac App Store , you 'll have to re-buy the app through the App Store . Honestly , I 'm really surprised by this . UPDATE : I 'd recommend reading <URL> about this as it provides a more comprehensive picture of what 's going on , and includes some developer-related information .
This functionality will be support beginning with iOS 9.3 . It will support syncing the entire library , including PDFs on any device . Here is the Apple Support page with documentation : <URL> Federico Viticci <URL> this on Twitter first .
Yes . Most cases the developer will leave the app on the store , but just remove it from being sellable to new owners . That allows them to submit bug fixes for existing customers , not force them to upgrade , allow them to re-download things - but not have new buyers buying the wrong version ( not the latest ) . Of course , the developer or Apple can also remove the app entirely - but this is far less common . What is common is when the developer keeps the same name as far as the store is concerned . In this case , you 'll want to have a backup that you control to re-install no matter what Apple or the developer chooses .
<URL> is a tool which ' locks ' the keyboard . It can be enabled or disabled with the mouse .
I did n't enjoy Calibre . But then I realised that it comes with a bunch of command line utilities , and that made things easier for me . Imagine you have a bunch of epub files . That 's the Linux command line to convert them all to mobi using the calibre tool . Except I think the command line toold have changed name in the newest release . Here 's a website , from the Calibre pages , that claims to by a guide to converting HTML to e-book formats , including mobi . <URL> This page seems most important for your question , it has nice screen shots for the settings used . <URL>
Here 's a Mountain Lion solution that I hope works on Lion . ( I just worked at this from the other way - <URL> . ) Open Contacts Select On My Mac as the default account . Import a contact or two from a vCard or import your test data set from the Import ... menu Switch back your default account to iCloud . Going forward you can always drag a . vcf / vCard file into the On My Mac list to import there directly without changing the default account .
No . iPhoto does not allow you to dictate the internal storage scheme . However , the export function does have an option to export the original file , so you can avoid the re sampling and/or format conversion if that is enough to stick with what you have . Additionally , Aperture and iPhoto can use the same storage , so you could get aperture and do the following ; convert the storage of any photos you want to folders and then save the library . continue to use iPhoto for convenient tasks and iPhoto will work with the aperture store locations . do all imports in aperture when you want the originals stored in specific folders . You can use Lightroom , PhotoMechanic or Aperture which all allow whatever folder based storage of photos you prefer .
Do this : All devices need the New Notes upgrade to be compatible with this . Update to New Notes on each device . Open folders view and select Local Notes or On My Phone . Tap on Edit in the upper right corner and tap on Move All in the lower left corner . You should see this : iCloud New Folder ' Notes 0 > ' [ or not including the local notes ] Tap on Notes They will empty out of the local notes folder and move into iCloud . Again , you wo n't see any of these notes until you upgrade to New Notes . Pro-Tip : This also works for migrating Gmail notes , etc. .
Currently , it is not possible to gift Mac App Store apps directly . There is a workaround where you could buy an iTunes Gift card ( from the iTunes store home menu ) for exactly the price of the app and the recipient can redeem the code in the Mac App Store
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
<URL> . A quick outtake : The simple answer is that your data is at least as safe as it is when stored on any remote server , if not more so . All data is transferred to computers and mobile devices using secure sockets layer via WebDAV , IMAP , or HTTP . All data except e-mail and notes -- more on that later -- are stored and encrypted on disk on Apple 's servers . And secure authentication tokens are created on mobile devices to retrieve information without constantly transmitting a password . And backups are stored and transferred encrypted . As for an employee being able to access a backup , only an Apple employee would be able to correctly answer that . If an App was pulled from the store , they may not need to actually go into your backup to remove it . All apps have a unique identifier , and if anything they can just delete that backup for everyone ( think of the backups being stored individually rather than a big ZIP file if you will ) . Again , this is internal to Apple so no one can fully answer that part . Finally , backups do include the Keychain , but this is also encrypted and the key is tied to the device that did the backup . From various places I have read online , Apple meets or exceeds ( more often the case ) standard security procedures in this regard .
The programmatic and direct feedback channels to Apple and the developer are as follows : Report a problem from the purchase summary in iTunes on a computer . This also is useful if you wish to ask for a refund in the case where the app was paid and does n't function in your judgement . There is a general problem link in the store as well as a link to developer support . These are best for technical or minor bugs that do n't ruin the app experience or if you expect it to get fixed and continue to use the app . You can write a formal review that Apple may eventually publish detailing why you feel the app is buggy or non-confomant with design guidelines or rules . You can rate the app in stars Those three procedures are standard ways to provide feedback about buggy apps or problematic purchases . Deleting the app sends less formal feedback as your devices stop asking for updates to that title .
Icons are definitely not freely copy-able . Apps in the App Store still enjoy the copyright protections afforded under intellectual property laws in your region . If you 've found an app with icons that you 're smitten with try contacting the developer about it . Often developers will purchase icon sets from icon factories like iconarchive.com ( link omitted on purpose ) . These icon sets are licensed to you , for use in your applications , and come with the necessary license to allow you to redistribute and profit off any product that includes them . You can find free and paid-for icon sets out there . The developer might be forthcoming if they purchased their icons from a factory . If the developer has designed the icons on their own they may choose to license them to you or they may say no . In which case : respect their wishes or you may find yourself on the receiving end of a cease-and-desist letter that prevents you from selling or giving away your app to the masses .
If you mean taking software that you do not hold copyright to , and which you are only allowed to use and copy because it was licensed under the GNU GPL , then no . The <URL> : section 6 of the GPL says " You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients ' exercise of the rights granted herein " , and the Mac App Store Terms of Service explicitly add other restrictions . The <URL> confirmed this : the App Store agreements , on all platforms , are incompatible with the GNU GPL . Apple seems to be disallowing GPL programs in the App Store as a matter of policy , but if you managed to sneak one through , then the author of the program could go after you for violating their copyright . A completely different case is where you hold the copyright to a piece of software . In that case , you are welcome to distribute it under more than one license . ( For example , Firefox was for a while licensed under the MPL , GPL , and LGPL . MySQL is licensed under the GPL and also a proprietary license . ) So if you sell a program through the Mac App Store , you can also release it under the GPL -- assuming you are allowed to do each of these things independently . ( If you wanted to use somebody else 's GNU GPL-licensed code in one of the App Stores , you could write to the copyright holder and see if they 're willing to sell you an alternative license to their software . They 're under absolutely no obligation to do this , of course . ) VLC ran into trouble ( I think ) because copyright for the software was held by many different people , and the whole program was only allowed to be distributed under the GPL . Some programs sidestep such issues by requiring contributors to <URL> to them , but most do n't .
To change the default to local just write in a terminal : To change back to iCloud first , type :
<URL> lets you purchase bundles of 20 + licenses for Apple software , including Lion . The licenses can be bought via the <URL> and redeemed in the Mac App Store . If you need to purchase less than 20 commercial licenses , it seems you can not do so using a single Apple ID . Have fun creating an Apple ID for each license you want to buy . .
This will be extraordinarily difficult to do at run-time , and with any document . The few solutions that have implemented this technology ( remembrance agent <URL> and Dashboard <URL> are probably the most notable and " successful " ) required specific search indexers for each type of application and up-front document analysis . ( Very much how you ca n't search in Spotlight while it is " updating " . ) For example , if you typed the word " from " , you would not necessarily want to see all of your email messages just because they all feature the word as part of their metadata . However , if you typed " Art Taylor " , you would expect to see email , chat , and other documents related to me . The problem is of summarizing the semantic content from the structural content . That 's why DEVONthink requires you to import the documents . It can summarize the documents and present results more or less in real time , because it has done the summarization up front . Spotlight does some of this as well , but no great context aware knowledge and memory augmentation applications have popped up that offer universal document support . If you google " knowledge augmentation " , you will find a large number of articles and papers on the topic . People are very interested in this and I think it is just a matter of time before someone attacks the problem with a commercial solution . Gordon Bell had a tantalizing project called " MyLifeBits " <URL> that was a little over the top , but IBM <URL> is doing some research on associative recall . Note the " Capture " and " Ingest " stages . The scope of both of these is much beyond simple document relationships . Years ago , I tried the DEVONthink " put it all in there " approach , and as you probably suspect , it was a disaster . Best of luck .
With the latest update to Mountain Lion I am now able to fix the issue with ease . Now you can double-click a partially downloaded program to throw away all the currently downloaded parts and start over . This only starts working once the computer thinks it has stopped . I 'm guessing there is some hidden timeout value that needs to be exceeded to enable this feature . In one case ( ClamXav ) I had to reboot to get Mountain Lion to recognize that it was n't downloading any longer . Double-click still worked to restart the download .
end question
start question
How can I find which account I used for downloading my iOS apps ?
In iTunes you can simply right click the app in question and choose Get Info . On the summary tab you can see the account used to purchase the app .
Since you have two other DNS addresses listed , you can click on the entry for 192.168.1.1 and click the " - " ( minus ) button to remove it ( although it may not have any practical effect on connecting to sites ) . The IP address 192.168.1.1 is your default gateway and is the address of your router or modem that you connect to for Internet access . By default , this address will be added in the DNS list in OS X , and the DNS lookups will be done based on the DNS servers configured within the router/modem ( where again , the default would be what your ISP provides ) . The order of the DNS server entries matters for how DNS lookups are performed . So OS X would anyway try the first two that you have from your ISP before going with the third one . If you wish to check and find the fastest DNS provider for your connection , you can use the free <URL> tool and reconfigure your DNS accordingly . You can also check your router/modem configuration and configure it to use specific DNS servers if needed ( note that any settings in OS X will override these settings ) : Open a browser window and go to Type in the administrator credentials ( check your router/modem manual or with your ISP for the credentials if you do n't know ) Navigate through the settings , check and/or reconfigure DNS
In iTunes you can simply right click the app in question and choose Get Info . On the summary tab you can see the account used to purchase the app .
The rules for the Mac App store are converging towards that of the iOS App store . The iOS App store currently allows the use of almost any programming language ( even Basic or Assembly ) , as long as everything required for that language ( code , interpreter , runtime , libraries , etc. ) is bundled with the app . For instance , many iPhone games have a built-in Lua interpreter or a C# runtime . If a language used by an app requires any separately installed support other than that built into the Lion Mac OS distribution , the review guidelines say that app will be rejected . Cocoa and webkit ( for Javascript ) are currently built into the Mac OS X distribution . So , if you want to use Java , you might be able to get away with including your own complete JVM and all needed runtime support libraries for Java in the app bundle . BTW , XCode supports using C++ and Objective C++ code , as well as Objective C and its plain C subset . But you may have to use some Objective C APIs to make an application compliant with all the UI guidelines , even in a mostly C++ app .
One way to tell if a device has connected to your iTunes is to check the preferences and see if there is a device backup . When you can connect a device to iTunes it creates a backup of the device ( if you are syncing stuff to and from it ) . In your case it sounds like you wan na find out if your books have been syncing to another device . Open iTunes Preferences : Windows : Choose Edit > Preferences Mac : Choose iTunes > Preferences There will be no way for you to see what specifically was sycned , this will only tell you if a device has synced , and when .
The dark linen source file is stored in the System Library folder so you will need " root " or administrator permissions to make changes to the directory or the file .
I 'd say that what 's really being measured there is average CPU usage per application . Then some maths is being done in the background to calculate based on CPU usage how many watts per hour are being consumed per app . Knowing current battery capacity/charge would make that pretty trivial in terms of calculation . On a portable computer , similarly , if an app is really driving your CPU , then your battery is gon na run out faster . I 'd recommend getting hold of something like <URL> which can show you realtime CPU usage in the menu bar as well as a bunch of other stuff . Specifically , the CPU monitor in iStat breaks down CPU usage per application .
On your iPhone : Open the app Go to - > Under the section , wait till it shows the list of apps Click on the app you 're interested in to see the App Version , the App Size and the amount of data it has stored on the device . This works only for third party apps . The Apple provided stock apps will not show this information .
Tunes Connect has moved the location where the promo codes are generated . To generate promo codes as of 10/22/2015 select the app - > Features - > Promo codes
Apparently this is possible : Okay , the Google instructions are n't what I would call stellar for this particular setup procedure but they are correct . It 's as simple as going to m.google.com , then logging in if necessary , choosing iPhone , and finally choosing the Calendars you want to Sync with your iPhone . It worked for me for 2 Calendars . Hope this helps ! Complete Google 's instructions Open Safari on your iPhone Navigate to m.google.com Select ' Sync ' Select your device Check the boxes next to the Calendars you want to sync ( It will only let you choose 5 total , including the " US Holidays " one ) Click ' Save . ' via : <URL>
iOS is a derivative of <URL> which is an open source OS released by Apple . You can browse Apple 's open source archives and download the Darwin code from their <URL> . That link contains the major release archives for all the Darwin-based operating systems Apple has produced to date . What you do n't get with those archives is the proprietary layers that Apple places on top of Darwin to build the shipped iOS and OS X operating systems you interact with . These include things like the GUI framework and some hardware drivers and what not . In a nutshell : you do n't get the polish that makes it an Apple OS . But you do get the engine . You can also gain access to the developer APIs made available by Apple by joining their <URL> . If you 'd like to access the developer APIs and documentations <URL> and you 'll immediately be given access to beta builds of iOS as well as all the developer API docs . I do not believe the JailBreakMe developer ( <URL> ) had any special level of access to the proprietary and company-secret components that make up the iOS operating system . Just the Darwin source for the releases and the developer APIs .
Note : This answer is no longer valid . ( See @stuffe 's answer on how to install apps onto old versions of iOS ) The short answer is there is no way to install an app that was created for an iOS newer then the one you are running . You should connect the device to iTunes and see if you can get it updated to the latest 4.x iOS as many games and apps that target the 4 to 8 year old demographics will certainly work on that older OS . The longer answer ( and some <URL> ) is that developers of more powerful apps want to use the latest APIs that are introduced every iOS , and for a developer to create an app for an older iOS version , would mean he could n't use the newer tools . Worse , it 's more work to keep using the older API so cutting them makes schedule and financial sense . For example , a resource known as ARC ( Automatic Resource Counting ) has made a huge difference in reducing the time and cost of app development by automatically doing things that otherwise the developer would have had to manage . Because these necessary APIs do n't exist on pervious iOS versions , there is no way to run a newer app on an older iOS . Hopefully you can use the web versions or find acceptable apps to do the things you need this device to do to continue to be of use .
You can unlock the disk while booted from other partitions . You 'll be prompted for a password when mounting the disk . You can choose to save the password in your keychain if you prefer . Also , you can just right-click on the volume in the Finder and select , it 's the same as using Disk Utility .
Yes - if the enterprise entity is the one distributing the pass to end users , then you should be fine using that certificate to sign Passbook items . Any Apple generated code signing certificate should be sufficient to fulfill the requirements . If you are concerned after reading this , a quick call to developer support might help alleviate any concerns you have . Apple documents this at <URL> and the version 1.1 of this document states : Use of Apple-issued Certificates All passes need to be signed with an Apple-issued certificate to be recognized by Passbook . Passes should only be signed by the entity that will be distributing the pass under its own name , trademark , or brand , and that entity 's information should match the information on the back of the pass .
Edit : Better Option I found <URL> , which seems to do exactly what you 're looking for , using a bunch of different sources , including Apple Update , Sparkle ( which a lot of 3rd party apps use to push updates ) , Microsoft Updates and more . It also has the option of installing the updates right from the app . Original Answer MacUpdate offers <URL> of updates to all the software it tracks . You could use that , with something to filter for items matching software you have installed ( <URL> ) might be useful for that ) to give you a list of updates to any of your apps . It 's probably not a comprehensive solution depending on the obscurity of some of your apps , but it 's probably the closest you 'll get to a single source . The other alternative might be creating a script that periodically checks provided URLs for all your software for any changes , then notifies you in some way .
All drives ( internal , external and networked ) get mounted in . You should see a folder there with the name of your USB drive as it appears on your desktop or in the Finder .
The information you are looking for is easily available in Chrome ( v35 ) . Just click on the lock icon in the browser location bar and the cipher suite details are there . But you asked about Safari . Clicking on the lock icon in Safari 7.0.4 only gives a fraction of what you get in Chrome . I thought there might be more in Safari Developer Tools but came up empty . What worked for me was to use a network packet inspector ( I used <URL> installed through <URL> ) . WireShark will allow you to examine all the network traffic including the " Client Hello " message where Safari lists the cipher suites it supports ( the list is 37 items long and matches the list you linked to from Qualsys ) . A little further down you can see the " Server Hello " message . In this response the server will respond with the name of the best cipher suite that they both share . The screenshot below is from WireShark . I have set up a filter to only show packets to and from IP addresses corresponding to ' www.google.com ' . Then I started recording and then loaded the google home page under https in Safari . You can see that the negotiated cipher suite between google and Safari is . Further down in the transcript ( not shown ) I found packets relating to to " Change Cipher Spec " , but this does n't appear ( from what I can tell ) to change the selected suite .
This morning , I updated to iOS 8.3 and the Activity app now appears on the last page of the home screen . So I would try to either update to iOS 8.3 or restart the phone if you 're having this problem .
This should do the trick : Edit your contact card on your phone ( in the Contacts application ) ; Change the label of your old address to anything you want ; Set the label of your new address to " home "
OS X does not offer this functionality . smcFanControl and the iStat widgets are the typical go-to choices for this issue . I personally use smcFanControl . It gives me both the temperature and the ability to monitor fan operation .
end question
start question
How to control your iPad with your Mac remotely ?
It is not possible to remotely control the screen of an iPad unless you jailbreak and install a VNC server as MattDMo suggested . This is because the security model in iOS does not allow an app to reach outside of its sandbox to control other apps or the springboard home screen . Apple does not provide any remote control functionality at the iOS level either . There is no way to do what you are asking for without jailbreaking . Mobile Device Management ( MDM ) solutions do not allow remote control of the screen on iOS either . MDM can push configuration profiles to control settings on an iPad , or prompt the user to install an app from the app store , but they ca n't control the screen . Airwatch offers a screen control option , but this only works on platforms that support it ( not iOS ) . I work with several MDM vendors , including Airwatch , and this is not possible because Apple does not make this functionality available in iOS .
There is nothing built into OS X that allows you to share your screen with multiple people at once . One-to-One : Screen Sharing <URL> is limited to a one-to-one connection . Screen Sharing is based on VNC and can be limited to observation only . One-to-Many : Google Hangout / Skype Consider using a <URL> . While it does require third party software , the use of the Chrome browser is free . This approach also ensures no-one can control your shared screen . Alternatively , Skype group calls allow for multiple people to observe your screen .
Open terminal and type : Look here for more information : <URL>
When you wake a Mac from hibernation , RAM got written to disk and power removed from memory . Then , at wake , it gets read back into RAM . This takes longer than normal , or standby sleep ( depending on the delay set ) and is visible at wake time by showing an Apple symbol and progress bar underneath ( white time markers filling up ) . Also running the following command in Terminal : will show the sleep states , e.g. Wake from Hibernate Wake from Normal Sleep Wake from Standby The last time I saw the ' Deepsleep ' widget in action , it did the same as hibernation , i.e. write to disk and remove power from memory . PS . As the man pages ( ) hint in the quote below , and should be set to the value " 0 " , via the same command you 've used to set hibernatemode , to set your MacBook Pro to use hibernation instead of normal , or standby sleep ( I would also disable any Energy Saver System Preferences to wake your Mac periodically ) : For example , on desktops that support standby a hibernation image will be written after the specified standbydelay time . To disable hibernation images completely , ensure hibernatemode standby and autopoweroff are all set to 0 . PPS . But please also consider the following thread here on AskDifferent : <URL>
Have you tried opening Terminal ( Applications - > Utilities - > Terminal ) and using the commands : or As it is not working try the hosts file : And look for something like this delete the entire block and hit CTRL + O to save the file and CTRL + X to exit . Everything you put at hosts file like : Those addresses will be blocked , you will not be able to access them while they are inside the hosts file To stop and delete SelfControl running as a background process : To delete the firewall rules that have been introduced by SelfControl , read this blog article by Steve Lambert : <URL>
Those sensors are no electrical sensors , but pieces of paper that change from white to red when they get wet . There are up to two spots you can look at without opening the device . Have a look inside your headphone jacket and your dock connector . ( use a torch/flashlight as lint or dim light can make these orangish-pink indicators hard to discern ! ) Have a look at <URL> Here 's the diagram for an iPhone 4/4S :
To share your Mac internet connection with your iPad do the following ( <URL> ) On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Bluetooth > Turn Bluetooth On . Turn Bluetooth On on your iPad . Your iPad should show up as a new device in the Bluetooth preferences of your Mac . Click Pair . A six digit number will appear on your Mac . This same number should show up on your iPad . Confirm the connection by tapping " Pair " on your iPad . On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Sharing Click on " Internet Sharing " from the menu on the left . Do not check the box yet ! Select : Share your connection from " Wi-Fi " Check : To computers using " Bluetooth PAN " Check the " Internet Sharing " box from the menu on the left When asked if you 're sure you want to share your connection , select " Start " share mac internet with iPad At this point , you should be able to get online on your iPad . Obviously , for this to work , your Mac will have to be awake and connected to the internet .
Logitech made a solar bluetooth keyboard allowing keyboard to pair 3 device . With your apple bluetooth keyboard , JUC400 Wormhole switch will do this . Or If you use mac , app " type2phone " is a altinative solution .
The short answer is no . Smart mailboxes are basically filters . All mail is still in the original mailbox . Or as Apple puts it : A Smart Mailbox shows in one location messages that are stored in other mailboxes . For example , a Smart Mailbox might show all messages from a specific sender or with a certain type of attachment , regardless of the mailbox where they 're stored . <URL> . You could however create your own sort of smart mailboxes by using rules to move messages around based on certain characteristics . <URL> . Example of rules creating a Today folder : This moves all mail from today to a folder called today . A day later it will move that mail to a folder called archive ( archief in Dutch ) . This should give you an idea how to work with rules and folders .
Yes , even W original can ! Check this video <URL> @ 4.05 <URL>
See <URL> . Quote : Turn Airport Off via Command Line Turn Airport On via Command Line You wo n't see any confirmation in the Terminal that the command succeeded or failed , but if you watch the AirPort menu icon you will see the bars disappear indicating the wireless interface is turned off , or reappear indicating that wireless is activated again . NOTE : In OS X Lion , use the hardware name above instead of , e.g. .
This will be extraordinarily difficult to do at run-time , and with any document . The few solutions that have implemented this technology ( remembrance agent <URL> and Dashboard <URL> are probably the most notable and " successful " ) required specific search indexers for each type of application and up-front document analysis . ( Very much how you ca n't search in Spotlight while it is " updating " . ) For example , if you typed the word " from " , you would not necessarily want to see all of your email messages just because they all feature the word as part of their metadata . However , if you typed " Art Taylor " , you would expect to see email , chat , and other documents related to me . The problem is of summarizing the semantic content from the structural content . That 's why DEVONthink requires you to import the documents . It can summarize the documents and present results more or less in real time , because it has done the summarization up front . Spotlight does some of this as well , but no great context aware knowledge and memory augmentation applications have popped up that offer universal document support . If you google " knowledge augmentation " , you will find a large number of articles and papers on the topic . People are very interested in this and I think it is just a matter of time before someone attacks the problem with a commercial solution . Gordon Bell had a tantalizing project called " MyLifeBits " <URL> that was a little over the top , but IBM <URL> is doing some research on associative recall . Note the " Capture " and " Ingest " stages . The scope of both of these is much beyond simple document relationships . Years ago , I tried the DEVONthink " put it all in there " approach , and as you probably suspect , it was a disaster . Best of luck .
I 'd say a full format is almost never necessary , though the only thing you 'll lose is time . I 've got an OS X install that I 've migrated from computer A to computer B to computer C and back to B and upgraded from Tiger to Leopard to Snow Leopard ( all upgrade-installs , no reformatting or anything ) over the past 6 years and it works great .
If You Have a Time Capsule or an AirPort Extreme Base Station with Shared USB Hard Drive If you have either a Time Capsule ( which is basically an AirPort Extreme Base Station with a built-in 500 GB or 1 TB hard drive ) or an AirPort Extreme Base Station ( AEBS ) with an attached USB hard drive , you can share out the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive and make it accessible via the Internet . To do this : Start the Airport Utility . Select your Time Capsule or AEBS . Make a note of the IP Address shown on the right -- you will need it later . Click Manual Setup . Check your " Connection Sharing " setting under the Internet Tab . The following tutorial is valid if your " Connection Sharing " is to " Share a public IP address " , the normal setup for a home network . You will need to have a static IP address , or use a free dynamic DNS service . If you have a different type of " Connection Sharing , " you probably do n't need a tutorial to set up remote access to your disk ; adapt this one as needed . Click Disks ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click File Sharing . Select ( check ) the " Enable file sharing " checkbox and the " Share disks over Ethernet WAN port " checkbox . It is strongly recommended that you also set Secure Shared Disks to " With base station password " and Guest Access to " Not allowed " ; not making these changes may allow unauthorized users to access your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive . Click Airport ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Base Station . Enter a Base Station Password and verify it in the Verify Password box . Click Advanced ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Port Mapping . Click the plus sign ( + ) to add a new port mapping . In the Public UDP Port ( s ) and Public TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type in a 4-digit port number ( e.g. , 5678 ) that you choose . In the Private IP Address box , type the internal IP address of your Time Capsule or AEBS that you wrote down in step 2 ( for example , 192.168.0.1 ) . In the Private UDP Port ( s ) and Private TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type 548 . Click Continue . In the Description box , type a descriptive name like " Time Capsule File Sharing " or " AEBS File Sharing " . Then , click Done . When you have made all changes , click Update . Your Time Capsule/AEBS will restart . Once it does , you are now ready to connect to the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive via the Internet . To do this when your MBA is away from home : In the Finder , click Go > Connect to Server . Type in the correct domain name or external IP address for your network , plus a colon and the port number you specified in step 11 . For example , " www.myhomedomain.com :5678 " or " 123.123.12.123:5678 " . Click Connect . You will be prompted for your user name and password . The user name can be anything you like ; the password should be the password for the Time Capsule/AEBS which you specified above . Click Connect . Voilà ! You are now connected to your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive from your MBA . You can access files , copy files back and forth between your MBA and the hard drive , delete files , whatever you want , as long as your MBA remains network-connected . The next time you go to connect , it should go even more quickly ( especially if you save your password in your keychain , and if you add your home IP address/domain name to your list of Favorite Servers in the Connect dialog box ) . Note that the Time Capsule/AEBS will appear in the Shared section of your Finder 's sidebar as a server , with the Base Station Name of the Time Capsule/AEBS as the server name . Taken from <URL> Additional Info : I know port forwarding can be a big hassle so I thought I would add that you could also use apple 's built in " Back To My Mac " feature . This way you can access your Time Capsule 's files as well as accessing you home mac files and screen share with your mac over a secure connection . Try this article : <URL>
This <URL> recommends a bookmarklet that you can install that allows you to tap an image to display its alt text . Try that - works great for me on my iPhone .
This is probably because some other users of files require complete lines e.g. C code will complain if there is no newline at the end of file - see <URL> and one main use of Bbedit etc is programming So the reason is not really specific to the Apple editors mentioned but more for what use the files is made of . Also see the comment to that question Not really the reason , but it 's very annoying if you cat a file and it does not have a trailing newline as the new shell prompt will appear after the last line of the file ( i.e. not in column 0 )
In <URL> , Apple write " With Find My iPhone set up on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch or Mac , you can locate , display a message , play a sound , remotely lock , or remotely wipe ( erase ) your device using the Find My iPhone app from another device ( such as a friend 's iPhone or iPad ) . " This is the closest I have found to a direct statement that it 's one package : if it 's set up , you can locate , display a message , play a sound , lock , or erase . None of the documentation about configuration mentions options to enable these selectively ; the control is off/on . As far as disabling remote wipe , there seems to be a strong indication that the remote wipe involves rebooting to the Restore partition . Evidences for this include the fact that " Find my Mac " will not turn on ( be greyed out ) if there is no Restore partition present . Also , it would be very difficult for a running process to wipe its own boot drive . The Find my Mac remote wipe causes a reboot . It seems most likely that wherever the remote wipe lives , it 's somewhere on the recovery partition . So , Find my Mac wo n't turn on unless there is a recovery partition . Remote wipe most likely wo n't work if the Recovery partition is n't bootable . To enable Find My Mac but disable Remote Wipe , you need to have a recovery partition , and it needs to not successfully boot . Sabotage the recovery system somewhere so it ca n't boot and thus ca n't be used as the plaatform to wipe your main drive . Of course you will want to keep an external bootable recovery drive ( USB stick ? ) available if you do this .
I do n't know of a general purpose Bluetooth only control that exists on the App store ( but that store is really hard to search these days for a needle in the haystack of apps ) , but one of the more common remote control software packages does say it will work without WiFi on the Mac . <URL> Once you 've installed the free Mac software and tested that you are OK tethering the Mac to the phone ( which can use prodigious amounts of cellular data ) you can download the free and ad supported iOS app . <URL> There is IAP to remove the ads if you really like it over time . I prefer to use the computer 's create network and tether over USB if needed for control in situations where I do n't have a pre-existing WiFi network . The apps I prefer for that are : <URL> - <URL> Rowmote Pro by Evan Schoenberg - <URL> Touchpad is truly standalone , just turn on screen sharing on your Mac and run the app . Rowmote Pro is more integrated with various apps such as spottily , hulu , etc. . . Both function fabulously as a keyboard and mouse/trackpad for OS X from iOS and I find I use both for different tasks at different times .
Nanos or shuffles are great for workouts at the gym or while running . You can use them just about anywhere . I personally use a Classic for my stuff , but the nano is great if you have a smaller library or want something very mobile . As far as what you can do with it ( other than playing music ) , it really depends on which generation you have . You obviously ca n't really run ' apps ' on it , but many generations ( of nanos ) had some small games , radios , could play video , etc. .
Go to : System Preferences - > Mission Control and choose " - " in Mission Control shortcut
end question
start question
How accurate is the GPS chip in the iPhone 4 ?
No WASS or any differential signaling is built into the iPhone . Apple does n't publish performance data for GPS or the chipsets/algorithms in use . It 's just <URL> ( which tries to be precise to 1m on the earth 's surface but never is for a variety of reasons ) In practice , iOS is usually accurate within 5 meters when the dot shows no circle on the map app ( called good or low Dilution of Precision ) . If Selective Availability ( SA ) is ever turned on again , all bets are off as the government can intentionally introduce errors of 70 or more meters if desired . The assisted part of the iPhone GPS makes it faster to get a fix based on assumptions that can be made by <URL> based on cached cell tower and wifi hotspot locations . This does n't make GPS any more precise or accurate since it 's the best signal for iOS location data when it 's present .
I have gotten an answer from the seller , who states that they are both the same . Hm , price targeting ?
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
There are only three reasons your phone might be overheating when it 's not due to the environment : Hardware problem iOS problem Program running requires a lot of resources 1 and 2 really require a device wipe in order to test for , since you 're trying to avoid that , the only thing you can debug is 3 . The easiest way to debug that is to reset your device ( power off completely , then reboot ) every morning after charging , then go about your day and make note of what apps you use , and whether your phone overheats or not . Rebooting it will make sure few to no apps are running . If the overheating problem goes away then it 's most likely a particular app that 's causing the problem , though finding it is going to be difficult since it 's one you do n't use daily . If the problem still happens occasionally , keep track of what apps you had run prior to it overheating , and see if there 's a correlation , then try going a few days without using the app that shows up most often , and then try a few days using it every morning . That should give you solid evidence about whether the app is the culprit or not . If there 's no correlation between any particular app usage and overheating , then you 're pretty much going to have to wipe it . Perform a backup , and take it to the store . Since you have to do a wipe anyway , you might as well do it once and get a replacement while you 're at it . Apple takes overheating concerns very seriously and they should replace it without difficulty if it 's under warranty . If it 's not under warranty , then it 's worth wiping it yourself , updating the OS , loading just those apps you really need , and seeing if it still overheats . If the problem goes away , then restore the backup and see if it returns . If it does n't return after the backup , then it was likely a corrupt iOS issue . If it does return after the backup , there 's some app that 's causing the problem . If the problem did n't go away after wiping and reinstalling the OS , then it 's a hardware problem , and you should have it repaired or replaced .
I think he 's asking about actually using an iPhone as a GPS module for a laptop , rather than sending a location which can be viewed on a laptop . This functionality is n't available unless you jailbreak your iPhone , then you can use xGPS or any of the similar apps on Cydia which can turn your iPhone into a bluetooth GPS module .
The <URL> app allowed me to order another case directly after getting my replacement phone . I was determined to do the right thing and wait to see if my original shipment was fulfilled before ordering another one . It seems that my original order has shipped and I can no longer order another case through the app .
For the first one Press , A quick way : cmd + shift + : A permanent way For the second question , As shown in this picture ,
No WASS or any differential signaling is built into the iPhone . Apple does n't publish performance data for GPS or the chipsets/algorithms in use . It 's just <URL> ( which tries to be precise to 1m on the earth 's surface but never is for a variety of reasons ) In practice , iOS is usually accurate within 5 meters when the dot shows no circle on the map app ( called good or low Dilution of Precision ) . If Selective Availability ( SA ) is ever turned on again , all bets are off as the government can intentionally introduce errors of 70 or more meters if desired . The assisted part of the iPhone GPS makes it faster to get a fix based on assumptions that can be made by <URL> based on cached cell tower and wifi hotspot locations . This does n't make GPS any more precise or accurate since it 's the best signal for iOS location data when it 's present .
Update : You do n't need to wait to be prompted to do the " figure eight thing " . You can do it any time to recalibrate the compass . The compass is really sensitive to outside influences . For example it is useless in my girlfriends BMW . It is consistently off by 135 degrees and doing the figure 8 does n't make any difference . It 's more of a toy than something you would want to depend on .
USB 2.0 is faster , but Wi-Fi is better . In practice , Wi-Fi will be superior to USB for syncing and backup since you do n't have to worry about plugging it in . It can start as soon as you enter the network , throttle itself based on CPU/iOS activity . You can even start on WiFi and connect your iOS 5 device to USB and syncing will continue at faster speeds if WiFi proves to be slow for a particular sync session . My experience is the devices can do their thing and sync in the background without me waiting for them and I 'm almost always the slowest peg in the process . :-) However , USB 2.0 speed is faster than 802.11 n both in theory and in practice . See this chart from a <URL> on relative speeds relating to Time Capsule performance . The one area where USB ( or any other wired connection whether it 's USB 2.0 , 3.0 , FireWire or Thunderbolt ) is better than Wi-Fi is <URL> . If your sync session is largely lots of little checks and no appreciable time is spent waiting for large files to transfer , then the wired connection could be much faster if your sessions are shorter than 15 to 30 seconds in length . Here 's another nice article explaining how even a slow USB 2.0 connection can be fast enough for some demanding data transfers : <URL> <URL>
There are three microphones on the iPhone 5 . This setup is used to eliminate background noise while on call . One is ideally placed at the back , and two in the front . So basically when you 're covering the bottom , the mic on the ear piece picks up the audio input .
It appears there are multiple ways . The first , is <URL> Automatic Downloads and downloading previous purchases are not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Automatic Downloads and downloading past purchased music and TV Shows is supported only in the US and is not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Previous purchases may be unavailable if they are no longer on the iTunes Store . Downloading past purchased TV Shows requires iTunes 10.4 or later . It details the following methods : Open the iTunes Store on your device . Make sure you are signed in with the same account used for the original purchase . Tap Purchased from the bottom navigation bar . From the Purchased tab , tap the artist name for the content you intend to download again . Once you 've located the music you are looking for , tap the download button . Note : To download all songs from a purchased album , tap on the Album 's toggle button to switch to Album view . Once you redownload the music to your phone , they will transfer to your iTunes library when you sync the device . And an alternate method using the new <URL> ( it 's of note that when I tested this method , I could redownload books and apps but not music ; your experience may , however , differ ) .
When you give an app permission to use your location , in other words enable GPS for it , the app may or may not use it . Some apps use it briefly to get a fix once each time you start the app , some apps do n't use it until you perform a certain action in them , others use it whenever the app is open , and some even continue to use it after you 've closed the app - for instance if you 're doing turn-by-turn directions in the background . To know if an app is actively using the GPS , and thus draining the battery faster than normal , is to look in the status bar next to the clock . If there 's a little white arrow , then an app ( probably the one you 've got open right now ) is actively using the GPS . If you do n't have an app open , and the arrow appears , you can find out which app is using the GPS by going to the app , selecting and going down the list of apps . For each app there 's the app name , and then a selector that determines whether that app is allowed to use the GPS . Scroll down that list and look for a little arrow between the app and the selector . If any app is using the GPS right now , it will show up as an arrow next to the app name . The color and fill of the arrow provide additional information , which you can find out about here : <URL> . That question also gives a screeshot of the screen with an arrow showing , so you can get an idea of what to look for when you go through your list of apps . It 's for the iPad , but the iPhone is very similar in design . If an app is using GPS and you do n't want it to , change the selector to and it will stop using the GPS and draining your battery .
The iPhone ( apart from the obvious phone/messaging features ) , will give you an ultra-portable computing device to carry around with you when you are not near your iMac or do n't want to open the Macbook Pro . This will give you the ability to check your emails , browse websites , listen to music , watch podcasts and even record and edit videos . You will also be able to read books and take part in the eco-system of hundreds of thousands of 3rd party applications that available on the Apple App Store . Best of all , because all your devices are from Apple , you benefit from not only knowing how most of these items work and are configured , but the huge benefit of interoperability . You most probably have your music in iTunes already , so you 're music can be synced with your new iPhone . Your web bookmarks are probably already in Safari , so can be synced with Safari on the iPhone .
I got the Incase Snap Case through the free program , and it does n't cover the bottom of the unit at all ( except for the sides ) so it should work for you , unless your dock connector is massive :
I used <URL> ( PDF ) to cut my normal SIM into microSIM format . It was very easy to follow and it works perfectly !
If you have a jail broken iPhone you can ssh into it and install tcpdump . Tcpdump is a command line program that wireshark is indirectly built off of .
Have n't tried with text messages , but with Whatsapp and emails it does , unfortunately :( So to answer the second part of your question , yes notifications vibrates during call .
Apple has a nice iOS page up at <URL> In case it changes at a later date , here is the relevant text from the end of that page . This text above is straight from the footnote portion / small text at the bottom of the web page .
I think I psoted the question a little too ealry . Anywyas here is exactly what I was looking for : Settings >> General >> Accessibility >> Guided Acess >> Turn the guided access on and also enable the sleep/wake button . You could put in a password now or later ( when you turn it on using the triple trigger and start guided access it will prompt you for a passcode ) Enjoy !
end question
start question
Change update frequency of app store in Mountain Lion ?
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
Unfortunately there is no easy one-click solution to downloading all your previously purchased apps . Best you can do is look through the list of purchased apps and re-buy them ( you will not be charged again ) .
Since Lion , in addition to storing Retina icons , it seems that an alias stores its many different sizes of icons in both the data and the resource fork ( the xattr com.apple.ResourceFork ) . Possibly in a move away from Resource forks , while still supporting previous OSes ( for now ) . The alias I just created contained the follow formats : is32 , s8mk , ic11 , il32 , l8mk , ic12 , ic07 , ic13 , ic08 , ic14 , ic09 , ic10 They are described here : <URL>
Yes . Xcode has built-in support for targeting specific devices with your app . It 's as simple as selecting the target device from a drop-down list . This could enable you to create an initial version that targets either iPhone or iPad , and then later switch to Universal and submit it as a new version . The App Store will then automatically recognize that the new version of the app is Universal , and you would need to add additional screenshots , etc. for the new devices .
You can not change depth and frequency of the recorded samples , even when changing the input settings in the ( this is the way to change playback and recording settings for sound devices ) . The default values for Garage Band are 44kHz , 16 bit , stereo . They are kept in AIFF format . You can explore them by right-clicking your garage band project and choosing . The recorded files are kept in the folder . Edit ( added Logic 9 ) : In Logic 9 you can change the sampling rate ( frequency ) from the window , tab . Explained in the <URL> . To change the bit depth you should go to - > and check/uncheck ( It 's checked by default ) . It 's covered in the <URL> .
You can control whether pressing the power button should put your mac to sleep or present a dialog with options ( sleep/restart/shut-down ) using the command . The following : will put it to sleep right away ( presumably your current setting ) and changing to will present you with the dialog . Pay attention to the fact that it 's not a per-user setting , and changes the behaviour for all users . Something to keep in mind if you share the device with others . From the man page ( explore it for other options ) : All changes made through pmset are saved in a persistent preferences file ( per-system , not per-user ) at / Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration / com.apple.PowerManagement.plist
Mountain Lion does n't ship with any GCC , but you can install GCC 4.7 . I have done this on my machine .
No , the iTunes account are country bounded . So you ca n't buy a Spanish app with your US account . But if you 'll be in Spain for a few months , I assume you have a Spanish address ? So there is no harm in creating a new account for your few months in Spain . All you need is an address or a gift card from Spain .
For Repairs/Recovery : One is to use the build in recovery installed on your hard drive . To check for it use disk utility , but it is a hidden partition so make it non hidden first . Second one is to use the Internet Recovery . For clean install : is to <URL> , with complete ML installer . ( you need to have / <URL> the ML installer package ) , and a USB with 8GB space . <URL> Example : <URL> The OS X Recovery Disk Assistant lets you create OS X Recovery on an external drive that has all of the same capabilities as the built-in OS X Recovery : reinstall Lion or later , repair the disk using Disk Utility , restore from a Time Machine backup , or browse the web with Safari . Note : In order to create an external OS X Recovery using the OS X Recovery Assistant , the Mac must have an existing Recovery HD . To create an external OS X Recovery , download the OS X Recovery Disk Assistant application . Insert an external drive , launch the OS X Recovery Disk Assistant , select the drive where you would like to install , and follow the on screen instructions .
The <URL> summarizes the most important new features . If it 's " really any better " or not , depends entirely on your personal taste : I do like Mail.app 's new list view where the list appears as a side bar , with chunks of message text in addition to the subject/sender information . You can further unclutter the interface by hiding the Mailboxes tree when you do n't need it . The search feature has also got better : things that used to require " Smart Mailboxes " ( multi-condition filters ) you can now do with a quick search in the search bar . Apple also seems to have stolen some good ideas from Google Mail -- like Thread view , which is activated in Mail for Lion by default , and groups together messages that belong to the same thread . A thread shows up only once in the message list , showing the number of messages . It 's very convenient to move/delete a whole thread in this way . Also a neat feature copied from Google : the quoted text of original emails in replies is hidden by default , but you can unfold it by clicking " show more " ( with a nice visual effect of unfolding paper ) . However , if you love Thunderbird 's special features , Mail.app is probably not for you . It 's missing the Thunderbird 's superb Tabs feature , i.e. you can only view one email folder / search result at a time ( this might actually bring me to consider switching to Thunderbird again ) . Personally , I like Mail.app because it 's much better integrated with the other OS X apps I use , such as Address Book , iCal and iChat . Example : I get an email from a colleague , and if she 's currently online in GoogleTalk/Jabber or Bonjour ( local network chat ) , a green dot appears next to her name directly in Mail . Ca n't have that with Thunderbird ... Other example : dates , times , addresses and phone numbers are recognized automatically in email text and can be added in one click as iCal event or to complete an Address Book entry . Also , I 'm not sure whether Thunderbird 's email database is indexed and searchable with Spotlight . Would n't want to miss this feature : searching for an email by subject or even message text without opening Mail in the first place .
The updated YouTube app requires Apple TV Software Update 7.0 which is only available for 3rd generation Apple TV . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Well , in my point of view , if the app works 75 % of the time playing AVI files , I would try to contact the developer directly , there might be something required ( like a plug-in ) or a bug that needs fixing . Like it says in the FAQ , if contacting the developer produces no result , then I guess you could ask for a refund . I have heard that they gave refunds to people who were unhappy before , but it was a last-resort solution if I remember correctly . Also , I presume the App store staff will fight for you more if you paid 100 $ for your app , and a little less if you only paid a buck ... :-)
You might want to investigate the fine-grained control available to you in the Terminal command <URL> . There is a host of features too numerous to mention in this simple posting .
This appears to be a recent change to how purchasing functions , added for increased security . <URL> In the past 24 hours , Apple appears to have started prompting iOS devices owners and those with Apple IDs within iTunes to make their accounts more secure , requiring them to pick three security questions and enter their answers when they download a new app . The company is also asking users to enter a backup email address , in order to better protect their device but also their account ( which is tied to Apple 's Retail website and all of its media services ) .
Unfortunately , no - Safari uses quite a few system-level frameworks that are vastly different between those OSes .
Back up your data . Boot into the Recovery System by holding ⌘ + R during early boot . Select Disk Utility and format your drive where OS X and your files were stored on . Quit Disk Utility and select " Install Mountain Lion " .
I 've solved my system wide stuttering with Mountain Lion by now ( first sound only , mostly , then aggravated system wide ) . Here 's why : My MacBook Pro became unbootable from stock HDD . I had a bootcamp partition , no luck when booting into Windows too , got stuck when booting , jusk like when booting into OS X ( got stuck at apple sign with spinning wheel ) . I 've got a Ubuntu DVD and started a live session , SMART disk diagnostics : 258 bad blocks , imminent disk failure . I half apologize Apple in this point , for blaming solely the OS for being just weird . The stuttering origins , in my case , was n't solely about the OS . I should have take notice since when first upgraded to Mountain Lion . With my stock HDD , everytime I tried to install OS X , I needed to reboot a few times and got negative time counter ( WEIRD ) for the remaining installation time . So what confused me so much ? I booted into Windows bootcamp : no stuttering , booted into Mountain Lion : stuttering plus very slow OS . OS X Disk Utility never helped or warned about the amount of bad blocks ( doing PRAM/SMC resets , filesystem and permission repair never truly helped ) . When using Lion and Snow Leopard , there was no such a slowness/stuttering as there was in Mountain Lion . Before ML , I never experienced " sound stuttering " , only when upgrading to ML this started to happen . So I suspect ML may be more sensible to disk with bad blocks . I think I had few bad blocks initially and it became aggravated over time , I do n't know whether ML usage helped in the aggravation process . Truth is , it was like I 'd forced the disk to became unbootable when I last used it with Mountain Lion . It was slow as aways but still usable , I 'd got a miniDisplayPort/HDMI cable and thought it was time to try it . The machine became very sloooow when I tried to play some video while connected to my TV , after disconnecting , it just hang , so I forced shutdown and it never booted again . I 've just replaced the original Toshiba MK5065GSX 500GB 5400RPM ( what a crap and I think it was failing when under warranty ) with a new Seagate Momentus XT 750GB ( SSD hybrid drive , 7200RPM ) . MAN , NOW IT 'S BLAZING FAST ! ( also now I see the benefit of my early OWC 16GB RAM upgrade ) Anyway , I bought a MacBook Pro in early 2011 and here 's what I 've learned about MacBooks : First problem : MacBook Pro refuse to charge without any apparent reason , I thought it was some smart emergency battery calibration routine , no it was not . I 've dumbly let the warranty end and did n't replaced this failing and VERY expensive MagSafe , needed to buy a new one . At some point the stock MagSafe stopped charging and did n't return to charge after some hours , as it was aways doing . Second problem : Slowness in Lion ( I bought Lion ) Got RAM upgrade , no help ( I bought 16GB RAM ) Got ML upgrade , NO HELP , got stuttering ( I bought ML ) Died HDD ( started dying around 1 year of usage ) Got new better HDD ( bought ) Third problem : Bad management of headphone jack makes sound speakers muted . Blame OS X , any other OS : sound speakers working when expected to work . Google for : Headphone jack red macbook I think I ca n't solve this Fourth problem : I 've spent a lot of more money Given my experience , I have some concerns whether ML helps HDDs die . Now it 's blazing fast , no stuttering and I ca n't put a headphone . If a put one , sound speakers only return to be recognized at random afterwards . I WILL NEVER BUY APPLE STUFF AGAIN Maybe , only used and cheaper apple stuff for upgrades with my own choice of good hardware . TIP : Aways check your disk healthy with serious tools
It prompts you ( just tried to open Aptana ) . I let it install and gives
It might be placed there when an Apple employee decides to feature it .
Quit app . Delete folder . To avoid still display you have downloaded x bytes of y bytes , four solutions : Disregards . Kill process ( type into ) . Logout / login . Reboot . With Lion it 's shadowed under random folder . Well ... Open Launchpad . Find your app . Keep alt key down . Click on cross to delete it .
end question
start question
Why are switches grayed out in the iPhones Settings app with iOS 8.3 ?
Looks like it 's restricted -- someone activated parental controls on your device . Go to Settings > General > Restrictions and scroll down until you see the Cellular data item , you can deactivate it there ( given you know the passcode ) .
Yes . Open the App Store and scroll to the bottom of the featured tab . Tap on your Apple ID and select " View Apple ID " . The tap Ratings and Reviews :
There are a variety of iOS icon templates available for free on the web -- the best I 've seen so far is from <URL> -- that will offer up this information ( and possibly even obviate the need to know entirely ) . There is even a ( very ) short discussion about the corner radii . A quick search for will return a lot of similar results .
The answer was actually to do with the silly way Apple works when you run a backup with iTunes . Person A backs up their iPhone which has an app called " Whatsapp " . Person B then backs up their iPhone which also has the same app . ( Itunes will not backup Whatsapp as Person A already has ) . Person B later restores their iPhone from their own backup . Silly iTunes then uses Person A 's backed up copy of Whatsapp to restore onto Person B 's iPhone , which later causes the password prompt when performing updates . We used the same laptop 's and desktops to backup iPhones when going from iPhone 5 to 6 , which caused this problem to happen all over the place . EDIT : YES this is 100 % what is happening which is why it is the answer , not sure why the down-vote , but probably from the unhappy guy in the comments that did n't like me calling his precious iTunes " silly " . If you have the problem I had in the question , then this is the answer for it .
You can use a provisioning profile as long as he gets a new provisioning profile before the current one expires . Apple also has a business store ( basically a corporate App Store ) but I think that is way over the top for what you are trying to do . The most legitimate/safe option is to deploy a provisioning file and update it each year ...
Dock position could be changed when You place Your mouse on the bottom edge of the secondary screen and then move it down again .
Yes ! After you purchase and download Lion from the App Store , the " Install " screen will appear : Before you click Continue , open your Applications folder and look for the icon labelled Install Mac OS X Lion : If you missed this chance ( and the App is deleted from your system ) , you can always re-download the package using the App Store app . Even if it shows Lion Installed , you can hold the option key pressed , then press the button to re-download the Lion installer app . Right-click ( or Ctrl + Click ) on this and choose Show Package Contents . Navigate to Contents > SharedSupport and look for InstallESD.dmg . Use Disk Utility ( in the Utilities folder inside the Applications folder ) to burn InstallESD.dmg to a DVD . Drag the InstallESD.dmg file to the Disk Utility window , select it , then choose Burn ... from the Images menu . A dialog appears allowing you to burn it to a DVD . The name of the DVD does n't really matter , but I named mine Mac OS X Lion .
There is an Apple Discussion <URL> that describes the same problem , and refers to <URL> OSX Dialy link on how to correctly refresh LaunchPad , and fix a corrupted LaunchPad . The short version of the answer is : Basically I used terminal to kill the dock with the command " killall Dock " Then I had to delete the dock database file located in " Home Folder/Library/Application Support/Dock " you get to your Library folder by holding down the option key while clicking " Go " in Finder . Then kill the dock again with the terminal command " killall Dock " . Finally After putting all my apps back where I wanted them they are now saving .
The theory behind it is that it gets a lot more battery life when in deep sleep/hibernation than otherwise . Apple says after about an hour the computer should go into deep sleep . See <URL> for further information and how to disable it . ( The actual disabling instructions are in the question itself . )
thanks to @ismail for the suggestion that lead me to my final answer . So at the suggestion of Timothy the best answer I could come to is to create an Automater Folder Action that will move files from the Mail Downloads folder to the User Downloads Folder . To do so : Create a Folder Action Add an action for " Get Specified Finder Items action " and target the Mail Downloads folder Add an action of " Get Folder Contents " ( with repeat for each subfolder checked ) Add the " Move Finder Items " action and specify the downloads folder . Save the Finder Action with a relevant name ( I named mine Mail Download Mover ) Now go find the Mail Downloads folder in your User Library folder . Right click the Mail Downloads folder and select " Set Folder Action " This will move all your " downloaded " mail attachments directly to the download folder ( usually it takes a second or 2 for the automater to kick in ) I tested this using a zip file I emailed myself . After double clicking the zip file it went to the mail downloads folder and unzipped there . Then both items were moved to my downloads folder .
I found the direct download links for . ipsw files from <URL> . The links below are for build 11A465 of iOS 7.0 : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Should you be a reviewer or get lucky with an early delivery , the 5c and 5s firmware update - build 11A470a of iOS 7.0.1 are below courtesy of an <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , I 'd kindly remind people to not be greedy - downloading all the builds means someone else looking for one build might be prevented from getting a download .
Decided to try restoring my iPhone . That seems to have fixed it .
It may be a bug , but I am thinking it may mean your Spotlight index is corrupt . I just tried deleting Evernote from my Applications folder . After authenticating , it moved it to the trash . I then checked launchpad again , and it was no longer there . Then , when I dragged it back out of the trash and placed back into Applications folder . Relaunched launchpad , and it was there again on the last page . As in , worked as expected here . Launchpad keeps its own plist of what files there are , etc , and thats why there are some modification tools to allow to you to edit it . But I am assuming they would use spotlight to ' watch ' your Applications folder to add new items not through the Mac App Store . I assume Spotlight because its a great tool for the job , installing Lion does a huge spotlight re-index , and they do use spotlight often behind the scenes . First , the GUI way <URL> ( I do the command line way below ) : In system 's preferences - > spotlight - > Privacy add the drive you want to re-index Quit System 's preferences Logout of your sessions Login again :-) In system 's preferences - > spotlight - > Privacy remove the drive you want to re-index Wait . . a faily long time . You should see mdworker and/or mds running Personally , I have always done it <URL> . Launch ' Terminal ' ( located in / Applications/Utilities / ) At the command prompt , type this exactly : sudo mdutil - E / You will be asked for your password , provide it , as this command requires administrator privelages to run You will receive a confirmation message saying that index will be rebuilt Wait until index is finished rebuilding , this can take a while depending on the size of your hard drive , amount of files , etc. . While I ca n't find any documentation online that 100 % confirms that Launchpad uses Spotlight for this , this would be the first place I would look for the problem you are having .
Since Lion , in addition to storing Retina icons , it seems that an alias stores its many different sizes of icons in both the data and the resource fork ( the xattr com.apple.ResourceFork ) . Possibly in a move away from Resource forks , while still supporting previous OSes ( for now ) . The alias I just created contained the follow formats : is32 , s8mk , ic11 , il32 , l8mk , ic12 , ic07 , ic13 , ic08 , ic14 , ic09 , ic10 They are described here : <URL>
This is default behavior and is not an issue with jailbreaking . Even my new iPad 2 straight out the box does this on 4.3 . I see this as a bug and hope Apple fixes this . The fastest and simplest iPad app that I 've found that I like for rotating , cropping and flipping is called Crop Suey HD . UPDATE : It appears as though iOS 5 has finally fixed this annoying bug . And the even better news is that they are now throwing in photo editing tools right in the photo viewer app ; including the option to rotate .
There are a great many apps which offer very little in terms of functionality , and essentially advertise a company and accessories ( such as the Jabra and Plantronics apps ) and some which just display information about select services of the company . There are also many apps which require specific infrastructures to be in place for an organisation to even use the app which offer no functionality for the average user , such as Good for Enterprise , or Excitor DME . As long as it complies with the submission guidelines , there 's no reason Apple would reject it .
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
Not presently . iOS multitasking however is quite different than say the multitasking in Android or Mac OS X . The app unless it specifically is using one of the 7 methods to run in the background is " frozen " and wo n't consume any resources until it 's brought back to the forefront . Essentially the fast app switching feature as part of iOS 4.0 is a large part of why you saw so many apps being updated to work with iOS 4.0 multitasking .
This option seems to be only for outgoing connections , which is too bad . I would also like to be able to restrict some incoming connections to my LAN .
The directory you 're looking for happens to be . This is where the settings are stored . The per-application settings are stored in the database . If you want to add a setting manually , you 'll need to add an entry for the application in two tables . The first is , and you 'll need to set the field to the friendly bundle name ( such as ) , and then the field to its UUID ( such as ) ( Repeat this step for each UUID that the application has . In my particular example , there are two UUIDs . Just add another entry to the table for each UUID , but with the set the same as before , and with the set to the next UUID the application has . ) . Then you 'll need to make an entry in the table with the field set to the friendly bundle name used in the table , and then the field set to . This will make that particular application be restricted from using cellular data . To enable the application to use cellular data again , just set its field in the table to . Any application not found in this database is assumed to be allowed to use cellular data .
end question
start question
Can I remap UP and DOWN arrow keys in Aperture ?
So , using a little plist trickery , I 've managed to re-assign those keys . The steps I took are the following : Aperture > Commands . . > Customize Duplicate current command set and name it " MySet " Export &amp; delete the current set Open it with Property List Editor Find and Delete : MoveSelectionUp and MoveSelectionDown entries Save and exit Import it via Aperture > Commands . . > Import Select it via Aperture > Commands . . > Custom commands set So now the UP &amp; DOWN arrow keys are free to assign whatever you like ( in my case Increase &amp; Decrease rating feels like the way to go ! )
It 's not possible to achieve multiple desktop locations . Spaces are not a replacement for desktops . On Stock Mac OS there is only one desktop per user and multiple spaces " above " the desktop . Additionally it seems there are no tools to achieve this either with Spaces or independently .
apple.com , ipad for business : <URL> From disabling Safari completely ( ) to functional options : Enable autofill : When this option is off , Safari does n't remember what users enter in web forms . Force Fraud warning : When this option is off , Safari does n't attempt to prevent the user from visiting websites identified as being fraudulent or compromised . Enable JavaScript : When this option is off , Safari ignores all javascript on websites . Block pop-ups : When this option is off , Safari 's pop-up blocking feature is disabled . Accept cookies : Sets Safari 's cookie policy . Choose to accept all cookies , accept no cookies , or reject cookies from sites not directly accessed . Thereby you can limit the iPad to only apps ( and webapps ) installed by you .
Not possible with keyboard only at the moment . For whatever reason , Apple decided to not use the default OS X behavior for toggling checkboxes ( Space ) in Aperture .
I 'm afraid you can not change the order they appear in , you can only change what fields are shown in the Template Section of the Preferences .
Create and save a property list like this as : Then quit and reopen applications to apply the changes . See <URL> or <URL> for more information .
You may not have noticed it , but Oracle Java 7 installs a new item in System Preferences with a feature that automatically checks for updates by default , and prompts you to install them . Thus , this is taken care of .
If you 're using Migration Assistant , the software will stay licensed , and if you intend to wipe and repurpose the old computer it 's likely you 're in the clear as far as licensing goes . The Windows guest OSes wo n't notice any change : VMware 's virtual hardware wo n't change , so they 'll be totally oblivious to the migration . I know from past experience that Microsoft Office works fine after Migration Assistant runs . I 'm not sure about Serene Screen or VMware , but I 've never had any trouble with any licensed software after Migration Assistant , including notoriously picky stuff like Photoshop or LabVIEW . Now , on the other hand , if you simply want to clone the software and use it on both machines , you could probably get away with using the same keys , but you should check the license to see if that 's allowed . If it 's not , it should be as easy as buying a new license key and just replacing the old one on one machine .
All iPhone models are offered with and without a carrier lock , also 4 , 4s ( which I write this from , I never bought or will buy a locked one ) and the newer ones . In Europe it is a must to offer unlocked versions , I do n't know about the policy in the country you live . The lock is on demand of the carrier , not of Apple .
I do n't know if the built-in keyboard viewer is sophisticated enough , but it should highlight pressed keys . If you do not see those options , make sure it is checked off under your System Preferences > Keyboard There are also apps like <URL> that display bezel elements for pressed keys .
Select the material you want to export and File - > Export - > Version . This will give you the Export dialogue . Look at it closely as it has a lot of options . Somethings are quite obvious : Where to export to , for instance . But note the others : Export Preset : This determines the size ( length x breadth ) , file format and compression applied to the image on export . ( So , full-size , tiff/jpeg and so on ) . Note the option at the bottom of the dropdown to Edit - that allows you to create your own Export preset depending you your requirements . Next note the SubFolder Format . That 's what allows you to design a naming scheme for the exported projects . There are presets there , and again , using the Edit option you can devise your own . I note that you then plan to delete the projects from Aperture . Why ? Not sure you 've grasped the point and purpose of the app if that 's what you 're doing ...
Instead of clicking on the " Confirm Faces " button , simply select all the photos that match ( using shift-click or any other method ) and then drag them to the space above the grey bar that says " John may also be in the photos below " . This has the affect of bulk confirming your selection as being John .
To make the keyboard behave differently , you need a different keyboard layout . You could create one by editing an XLM file manually , or you could use a third-party tool to create the keyboard layout ( you do n't need to be running a third-party program indefinitely once they layout is created and installed ) . <URL> is known for making it fairly easy to create new keyboard layouts for the Mac . In any event , you want to switch the number keys ( 0-9 ) and the symbols attached to them . Save your new keyboard in ~ / Library/Keyboard Layouts , and then select it as your keyboard .
You can use BetterTouchTool <URL> to globally assign keyboard shortcuts . However You ca n't assign fn key .
It works pretty much as you describe Windows . If you want a better key combo to access the menu bar , you can customize it under . Then type to select which menu you want , hit enter , then type to select the menu item . Note that most menu items have keyboard shortcuts . These are written next to the menu item , often a single character preceded by the CMD key .
Yes - when you set the Time Machine to back up to the Time Capsule - you will include the internal drive by default . I would let a couple of backups complete , and then go to the settings for time machine under options and make sure the external drive is not excluded . Kick off a a backup with the external drive connected to make sure it works . If the drive is n't connected when a back up event arrives , the internal will get backed up - but the software will remember and resume backing up the external any time it is connected and a back up happens . You do n't need to always have the external drive connected for this to work , you just lose some chances to back it up when it 's not connected .
Create the Arrow From the Insert Shape menu choose the " Draw with Pen " tool : Click once at one end of your curved arrow : Click and drag at the other end of your arrow : Hit the Escape key to stop drawing . From the line ends menu , choose an arrowhead you like : Edit the Arrow To reshape the curve , click on it once , then click on it again ; When the endpoints turn red you can change things : Click and drag the round circles at the end of the gray Bezier handles to reshape the curve ( a little practice makes perfect ) : Click and drag one of the red endpoints to change the start or end :
<URL> does trigger an alert in Safari when a popup is locked . And it also improves the effectiveness of Safari 's blocking . But - the alert behaviour does not work in Lion ! Snow Leopard only . If the dev updates it for Lion it should do what you request .
There are two choices available right now : <URL> <URL> You should try both and see which matches your " taste " better :)
You can option-click the shuffle button at the top of an album to queue it in a random order . Oddly , if I do that for the artist it only adds the first song in the list . Weird . And you ca n't intermingle different albums like this , you have to do that manually in the Up Next panel . Correction : if you go to Artists view , select All Artists and then option-click the shuffle button next to one of the artist names , it will queue all the songs by that artist in a random order . If you select an individual artist and do it , it will only queue the first song .
end question
start question
Any ideas why Mavericks slowing down due to BetterSnapTool ?
( This answers the second question about how to automate restarting BetterSnapTool . Since I have n't experienced the issue described and have no second-hand explanations , I ca n't answer the question of why this is happening . ) Here is a quick and simple AppleScript I whipped up that works for restarting BetterSnapTools : If you want to set this to automatically run every , say , 6 hours I think your best bet is to create a Launch Daemon using . A quick presentation of this approach can be found <URL> . For more information , check <URL> . You said " low overhead " , which I took to mean using only methods native to OS X . If you 're fine with third-party software , though , this <URL> seems promising ( but I have n't tried it so ca n't be certain ) .
Yes you are . With iOS 7 Apple really has worked hard to make sure that iDevices were an option for people with no other " regular " computer . You can redownload from Apple and back up pictures to iCloud but be aware that you might want to have the ability to get the pictures off a different way ( such as a upgraded Dropbox account with 100 GBs ) but otherwise keeping things in e-mails and using applications with online storage you should be totally fine .
This is the current state of iOS . You 'll notice that incoming calls and pop ups ( the old style notification ) also negatively affect the performance of current app .
<URL> appears to be related , it seems to be a permissions issue . I worked around this by creating a new folder at my destination and moving the folder contents into that new folder , instead of trying to directly move the folder itself . This invoked a proper Move operation without any special commands or key combos , and the files were moved instantaneously .
Alternatives for <URL> <URL> Uses OS X binary versions when available Compiles OS X optimized versions Compiling usually faster than with MacPorts Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Tries to separate already installed software from what is installed through ... ... while taking advantage of already installed software and libraries ( e.g. does n't install a working version of Perl twice ) Installing software does n't need root access Actively developed on <URL> <URL> Uses Debian tools like and Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Can be used to install precompiled packages or to compile everything from the source Has a separate directory tree to avoid interference with the system <URL> Last version 2010-04-10 <URL> Has GUI Nothing new on the website since 2008
A quick search for <URL> give you the answer . With the OS X version 10.9.4 , you are able to install Xcode 6.2 and below . On Xcode 6.2 you can code in Swift , but I 'm afraid is not the latest Swift version . <URL> .
Although there is some very tiny overhead tracking the views of 4 or 9 windows - and your graphic card may be stretched to render more than X items at once - so it feels slower and renders slower animating the in/out of the spaces . As far as the apps and the system - each window that is running simply gets coordinates . If it 's marked on screen 1 and offset X and Y or no screen and X and Y - the system does no extra work . Each window must be tracked and only windows that are somehow visible get refreshed . Spaces adds no extra work or saves any work as far as the application is concerned . If you tend to open more apps due to spaces organizing them - that will slow the machine down - but it 's not inherent that spaces makes anything on the system or app level slower other than an added graphics drain to animate the changes . When you are not switching - it 's probably faster since fewer windows have to draw into active viewports if you have less " on screen " at one point in time .
It would appear that the trackpad itself was faulty . It 's unclear exactly how this fault developed , but I found that switching out the trackpad for another fixed the problem . I 've had no issues since .
This is usually for one of two reasons : Defective battery . Your 6S is less than a year old , so contact Apple 's support for your country for a replacement . Usually if this is the case , it will always happen at the same percentage because of one or more defective cells in the battery . Bad calibration . I 've never seen that be 30 % off , though . After the battery is drained completely , charge the phone back to 100 % completely ( and for good measure , leave it on the charger for another hour or two ) .
Normally , a metadata resubmission takes less than a day . But that is extremely misleading . Many think you have to resubmit after correcting the data . This is wrong . Clicking " Submit for Review " puts your app in the back of the queue . Meaning it will take another week or so . The correct way is to reply to the resolution center message saying you corrected the error . Follow <URL> guide for details .
You can hide the tab bar by going to View → Hide Tab Bar .
OS X Yosemite 's Notification Center comes with a Weather widget preinstalled . Additional locations can be added to the widget :
If you mean the keychain that is called Local Items in the U.S. English locale , I think it is used for keychain items that are eligible to be synced with <URL> . From <URL> : If the iCloud Keychain is subsequently disabled , the iCloud keychain highlighted in the screenshot above is replaced with a " Local Items " keychain that has the same contents as the iCloud keychain . Any items added to the Local Items keychain will be pushed out to other devices when iCloud Keychain is re-enabled . I have never enabled iCloud Keychain , but I also have a Local Items keychain . It contains about half of the keychain items from my login keychain , or mostly web form passwords . The Local Items keychain does not seem to correspond to any file and it can not be deleted .
<URL> works for testing multitouch , so you can try different areas of the screen by holding one finger in a place you know works and move the other elsewhere . If the line breaks , then the second finger is in a location that does n't work . You can test it full screen ( without the Safari UI but the status bar is still present ) by adding it to the home screen .
There is no keypress or gesture to do this unfortunately . But here is a quick way to achieve a similar thing . Create a new bookmark in safari ( of any web page ) Edit this bookmark ( press edit in bookmark screen ) Rename the bookmark to End In the address field cut and paste this text Once you save this bookmark , you will be able to hit the bookmark button , select End and it will take you to the bottom of the web page . I know it 's not as simple as the current scroll to top feature ( this solution requires two taps ) , but its really the only option at the moment .
apple.com , ipad for business : <URL> From disabling Safari completely ( ) to functional options : Enable autofill : When this option is off , Safari does n't remember what users enter in web forms . Force Fraud warning : When this option is off , Safari does n't attempt to prevent the user from visiting websites identified as being fraudulent or compromised . Enable JavaScript : When this option is off , Safari ignores all javascript on websites . Block pop-ups : When this option is off , Safari 's pop-up blocking feature is disabled . Accept cookies : Sets Safari 's cookie policy . Choose to accept all cookies , accept no cookies , or reject cookies from sites not directly accessed . Thereby you can limit the iPad to only apps ( and webapps ) installed by you .
Nothing is safe in security terms , all that you can say is that there is a risk and try to quantify it . For Java there are often exploits for Java applets and at some time Apple found that they and Oracle could not produce a fix quick enough to stop a well known exploit . Apple then put out a change to Safari to block all Java applets if the Java version was below a given version and this version limit is increased regularly . The latest Apple-provided Java installer as of 17 Oct 2014 is <URL> . It fixes the vulnerabilities listed <URL> by providing a version of Java version 1.6.0 _ 65 . Also see this <URL> There will be vulnerabilities in that but Apple have so far decided none of those known to them are serious enough to block the use of this version or produce a new version .
According to the Apple Developer <URL> ( and <URL> ) , App Nap can be opted out by either an Application developer or a user , but by default are active . For a GUI application , the user can opt an application out of App Nap manually with a checkbox in the Finder " Get Info ... " pane . Timer Coalescing only becomes active when on battery power , so it should not affect your long running background processes . Finally , you can check on the status of App Nap in the Activity Monitor . On the Energy Tab , there is a column describing App Nap status for each application , so if policies change , you can check actual status here .
Use ps with a lower case L to directly view current nice values :
Dock position could be changed when You place Your mouse on the bottom edge of the secondary screen and then move it down again .
end question
start question
Is there any way to view saved wifi passwords on the iPhone ?
Unfortunately , on the iPhone it is not possible to access this information . The passwords are kept on your phone in a safe place that is not accessible through any regular means on the phone . This is done for your protection , if you were to lose your iPhone and someone picked it up , the passwords that are stored on it would be up for grabs . This would lead to a lot of security problems . I would recommend apps like 1password or the many other pieces of software out there that do the same thing to keep your passwords safe and backed up . I have way to many passwords to remember and it has been a life saver . 1Password even has the ability to back up your passwords to dropbox just in case something happens to your phone and you need to access it from somewhere else . There are a lot of different password managing apps out there , just find the right one for you . As gtm above me stated , there is a way to access your passwords but it is through jailbreaking . I do not recommend jailbreaking , that is something that you have to make the decision on for yourself . Jailbreaking is not for everyone . I know this may not have been the answer you were looking for , we have all been there when we forget a password and there is n't a way to retrieve it . The easier thing you can do is just reset the password on your router and make sure to keep that password safe . I hope this answer helps somewhat .
<URL> works for testing multitouch , so you can try different areas of the screen by holding one finger in a place you know works and move the other elsewhere . If the line breaks , then the second finger is in a location that does n't work . You can test it full screen ( without the Safari UI but the status bar is still present ) by adding it to the home screen .
You can try using <URL> ( ) feature on the iPhone . It allows scheduling as well .
I use following to prevent Captive networks Change : File Name to in System/Library/CoreServices Make note of this so you can change it back one day if you need to . This will not delete cookies you already have but will stop getting more of them .
Yes - this is a per blog preference . I found <URL> ... Double click the blog in the main window to open settings . Click the " Editing " pane . Find the " Preview Defaults " at the bottom of that section . Here 's a picture showing that you can choose to have it off or remember the last state as well as the default option of opening .
Double-hitting the key ( at the key place ) will bring the multitasking bar much like the button on your iPad . Confirmed on my iPad Apple keyboard dock .
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
There 's actually no visible indication on the screen when it 's being used ( right now ) . I have noticed that when leaving home and getting on the road , the network switches from my wifi as I drive away onto the 4G a lot faster ( without causing a drop in any streaming audio ) , but there is no indication on the screen that this is happening . In short , it 's a background feature .
If you 're comfortable in the Terminal , you can use rsync to copy some files from one place to another and it 'll give you summary stats on the speed : E.g. rsync -- stats -- human-readable ~ / Desktop/Large-File / Volumes/OtherDisk/Dir You can also type into the terminal just the command : ( note there needs to be one or more spaces after to end that command and break before the source and destination file names are provided ) Then drag the file / folder you wish to copy and drop it onto the terminal window , followed by dragging and dropping the destination directory . Dragging and dropping a file / folder onto a terminal window will place that file/folder 's path into the terminal window . Dragging a file is preferred in most cases since it will handle a space in any folder or file name . In this case the space needs an \ to indicate not to end the file name exactly opposite of needing the space earlier . The output of the above command will be similar to :
There is no " good " answer for this , but here 's the best I can figure out . Once you are on the call and muted : make sure you are on the screen that displays the mute/addcall/facetime / contacts buttons ( I 'll call this the " mute screen " from hereonout ) click the top button that turns off and locks the phone when you need to unmute , you can click the on/off or home button and swipe right . at this point you will see the " mute screen " and you can unmute . this only works once as far as I can tell . Once you have done this once , the next time the phone locks and you need to unmute , swiping right will not display the mute screen , but will just display your passcode pad as usual . NOTE : in order for this to work at all , the screen MUST BE the mute screen when you click the top on/off button . If you are on any other screen when the phone locks , this will not work even one time , as far as I can tell . I hope this is helpful . As usual with Apple , basic functionality is omitted for no discernible reason . " YOU ARE N'T I-TELEPHONING RIGHT . "
The Music app is pretty limited in terms of the metadata it displays . At the moment it 's not possible to view the play counts for songs . Third party apps can access your music collection , but I 'm not sure how much metadata is exposed to them . It may be possible to see play counts with a third party app , but I do n't know for sure , nor do I know of any apps that do this .
I believe that if you make an encrypted backup using iTunes it will include passwords .
Well , there is always <URL> but back when I learned my way around the Terminal , I found <URL> quite entertaining and educational ( given it suits your humour ) . If you ´ d rather go for a book , I ´ d highly recommend <URL> .
I know of no other solution to sync the handheld device . If you want to get files on and off the device , you may be able to find tools/apps to help you . I 've had to resort to a tool to get some audio and video content off of an iPod once that was loaded on someone else 's machine ; when you associate an iPod with a new machine , iTunes really wants to zap the contents , and I assume that may also be true with iPhone . Also , the way some of that content is stored on the device may not be what you 'd expect ( files in a file system ) , it 's more like cryptically named blocks of data in a database . But there are tools that can help you deal with the problem .
Here is an applescript I just put together that is working for me ( 10.9 ) You can place it in the Applescript menu and run it on the selected Emails . The script will : Try and grab the select emails in Mail . Send a Request to google translate Convert the resulting HTML to plain text Display a temporary text file with the translation . You can set the original language to auto or one of the languages in the languages_code list . And also set the result language from the list . There is no reason you should not be able to create a service using this script . But I will leave that to you . Just note that for the device to work you will need to right click/crtl + click in a message 's body for the service menu to show up . Or use the Services menu .
For the moment it only works on iOS . I would assume there will be plans at some point for Apple to release it to the Mac , however nothing has been mentioned publicly . Apple has also not provided any web interface for it , and I suspect if they do it will be part of iCloud .
This is a feature apple brought with the lastest OS X : OS X Yosemite . OS X Yosemite is still a beta and will be released publicly in fall 2014 .
After many hours finding for something at least useful to my problem , I found a website called <URL> , which provides a lot of common Mac OS " defaults write " commands . Anyway , thank Tony and drfrogsplatless for giving me clarifications and tips that were helpful to me .
You could get something like <URL> , which has passthrough for any standard 3.5 mm audio , and provides volume controls and a clicker remote ( just like on Apple 's headphones ) . The clicker can to play , pause , and skip ( double click for forward , triple click for backward ) . There are other similar products out there , I found a few by searching for " iPhone inline remote " .
Yes you can , you can run one monitor from the normal monitor port and another from a USB port but you need a special connector which makes the Air think it has a 2nd monitor attached . Here 's an <URL> You need <URL> which allows you to have multiple monitors with your MacBook . The performance of USB-attached monitors tends to be worse than those connected with display cables so they would be fine for regular computer use but probably not for gaming for example . EDIT With the release of Thunderbolt-capable Macs , you can now drive dual external Thunderbolt displays from MacBooks which have a separate graphics card .
end question
start question
What do I need to connect a second monitor to my MacBook Pro ?
Your MacBook Pro could have various display ports depending on its vintage : Dual-Link DVI for the oldest models Mini DisplayPort on the 15 " from late 2008 , on the 17 " since early 2009 Both can drive a monitor in analog mode ( via a VGA port on your monitor ) or in digital mode ( via a DVI port ) . Most monitors , except really ancient ones , have both connectors . The quality of the image beeing better with a DVI connection I recommend you go this route . All monitors are shipped with a DVI/DVI cable , if not go get one at your nearest cheap PC place . For old MacBook Pro that 's all you need . For more recent models you need to add a adapter . Apple has <URL> , but I do n't like it : It 's really short and put pressure on the port when the computer is used on a support . Not to mention ugly . I bought on ebay a 6 foot Mini DisplayPort/DVI cable for cheap , it 's all digital so you do n't need huge shielding and " super copper wire balanced to give you the best image " . Around 10 quids . Note : Smaller models like the MacBook and the Macbook Air came with different ports : A mini DVI or a micro DVI . For the people reading this with a non " pro " model , make sure you check for those as well ... PS : You can find pictures of the various ports by searching for their names on Wikipedia . I wanted to put the links directly , but apparently I do not have enough reputation to post more than one link :(
The Apple mini-DisplayPort to VGA or HDMI adapter terminates the Thunderbolt chain where it is connected , so until Apple released new MacBook Pro with two Thunderbolt ports ( similar to the iMac that has two ports ) then you will only get one video signal from the device through the Thunderbolt port . You may find an inexpensive USB to VGA solution to get around this limitation . Initially they were slower , but the newer ones are getting much faster and the software much better . You can then put the most important content on the Thunderbolt port and have the secondary display served over USB . Should a Thunderbolt adapter come about that drives two displays , I 'll update the answer , but nothing has been released ( or even rumored ) even though it 's clearly something the protocol could support . I like this knowledge base article for the clear deprecation of which Macs support two Thunderbolt displays and which ones only support one . <URL>
I would n't purchase this machine unless it 's still covered by AppleCare . Inspect it closely for nicks and dents , indicating a drop . I would check the Console logs for any indication of ongoing OS level problems . Unfortunately testing hardware can take a while , but is worthwhile before buying . Run AHT ( see <URL> ) and do the quick test . To do it you 'll probably need the original disks that came with the machine . The only other thing I can think of would be to verify that modules such as bluetooth , WiFi , Ethernet etc , are showing up properly ( and information is being populated in ) system profiler . To get there , hold option while going to the apple menu - it 's the first option . Listen for loud fans , can indicate overheating or bad sensors . Aside from that ... it 's always risky . Check Apple 's stock of refurb units . They come to you refurbished by Apple , with a 1-year warranty , and often do n't cost that much more than a CL unit , but with much less risk .
To enable a retina eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist . Just above Place this : Then , log out or make a copy of the app so that OS X will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
There 's no registration for OS X , and nothing in the code to detect and prevent you running more than two VMs . It 's purely a legal restriction . If you 've deleted the VM , then you 're fine .
Dr. Bott have HDMI adapters that can transmit audio as well as video , assuming your MacBook supports it ( yours does ) : <URL> Then , <URL> which transmits both video and audio . Note that Thunderbolt is <URL> with Mini DisplayPort as far as these cables/adapters are concerned .
If you have a number of events you want to enter and you have their times in another zone , it 's very handy to use Calendar 's time zone support . First , go to Calendar - > Preferences , and click Turn on time zone support . This will enable a dropdown in the titlebar of your Calendar window : You can then use this menu to change the display of everything in your calendar to a new time zone . Pull it down and select Eastern time ( or whatever other time zone or city your event is in ) , and Calendar will convert all your times to that zone . At this point , you can start entering events , using the times listed in the program for the event . You will also see a new detail in the event detail popup : This shows what time zone the event is in . Once you 've entered all the events , turn the time zone back . That will display all your events in your own time zone . If you are syncing with your phone ( which knows what time zone it is in ) all the events will remind you at the right time .
I think you are going about this the wrong way . You are looking defensively when you should be on offense . Consider getting something like a privacy shield to place around the urinator : Another alternative might be to simply bring physical pain into the mix . Wounding the urinator that sprays wildly towards you and the Macbook might make the urinator realize that control is important . Again , think offense ... not defense .
The latest Mac models with either Thunderbolt or Mini DisplayPort ca n't directly output composite/S-Video ( older Macs with micro-DVI could do this when using the <URL> ) . Therefore you need a converter box ( powered via USB or separate power supply ) that takes a VGA signal and converts it to composite or S-Video , which can be connected to the TV . You need to get one that can supply the correct video signal for your TV ( PAL/NTSC/SECAM ) , although most will support all of those . <URL> are available in a wide price range - generally the more expensive , the better the quality ( of the signal ) . You will also need a <URL> to get a VGA signal from your Mac ( this also works with the Thunderbolt MBP ) . For the computer with DVI output you will hopefully have a graphics card that can output a VGA signal , in which case you merely need a <URL> . If it outputs only DVI , you 're in trouble , as you 'll need another converter that converts this digital signal to a VGA one . Alternatively you could get a USB graphics card that outputs TV signals directly , although I ca n't seem to find one right now . This would be act like an additional monitor , which may be preferable . In case your TV has SCART inputs ( Europe mostly ) instead of composite/S-video , you 'll also need a <URL> , although this may be included with some of the products mentioned above . The whole setup would look like this :
You do n't need any kernel extensions . OS X has VPN configurability built in as well as all the UNIX tuneless and networking code and commands you could possibly need for securing the network . ( It 's BSD under the hood , after all ) . Why that one package needs a . kext could be innocent and performance tuning or to prevent needing a password to change things later or it could be nefarious for any number of reasons .
I bought the adapter from Apple to get the HDMI output from my MBP ( same as yours ) . You can visit the Apple Store for the adapters - I bought one of each adapter available , as I wanted to be prepared for whatever need I came across . The Thunderbolt port is to be used with the adapters . I also both several different lengths of HDMI cables . My TV has several HDMI input ports . The MBP automatically recognizes the TV as another monitor , so the only effort left is to get the TV setup to use that HDMI port as the Source .
To answer your questions : Per the <URL> , your MacBook should n't have a problem pushing video to a 1080p display , as the GPU can support up to 2560x1600 resolution . You 'll want to use the <URL> if you want to use HDMI . Note : on your model this will do video only , not audio . This should n't make a difference on your display , but I thought you should know . Support for through Mini DisplayPort is added in the Mid 2010 models . You can accomplish this by using <URL> . As you 'll read in the above clamshell mode support article , you actually have to use an external keyboard to get it to work in the first place , so you 're good here . You can use a wired or wireless keyboard/mouse for this . Hope this helps . Good luck !
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
No , as the first iMac which allows this is the 27-inch Late 2009 iMac , as explained <URL> . There are , though , some Applications which may achieve something similar , requiring both computers to be connected to the same LAN/WiFi/VPN , and sending all the information , the one to be displayed on the second computer working as a display , through it . Such as <URL> . You can find some more <URL> .
You are quite correct , you do n't want to sync your iPhone to this new Mac . At the least , you 'd lose any songs or movies you have loaded . You can do what you want using the iPhone Configuration Utility ( free at <URL> ) . Install , connect the iPhone , click on the iPhone 's icon , and go to the Applications tab . It will let you install or uninstall individual apps . Or connect your iPhone to WiFi ( you could use Network Sharing from the new Mac , if no other WiFi is available ) to download directly , after buying from either the iPhone or the Mac .
There 's no direct way to do it , unless you happen to own two Apple Thunderbolt displays you can daisy chain . What most people do is purchase a USB video adapter like a DisplayLink device . Performance and OS X support can be spotty but you might find something that 'll work well , especially if you can get something with USB 3.0 support . There are <URL> <URL> <URL> in the sidebar -- > that have more details on this .
There are many types of DVI adapter , I could type a load of stuff or just point you at <URL> . The key point is that there is no such thing as a DVI adapter . It 's just a generic term that covers the overall outline of the cable end , but what you really have is either a DVI-I or DVI-D adapter , in either Single or Dual link capability . Or it may be a DVI-A . Or there are others ... ! It 's possible that your splitter cable must be of the dual link types , characterised by the longer horizontal bar pin , and your Thunderbolt adapter may or may not be . Should n't matter which type , either I ( Integrated with analogue signal in the pins above/below the horizontal bar in addition to digital ) or D ( Digital only ) as I imagine you are not subsequently adapting them down to DSUB further down the line , the only thing that matters is if they are both dual link . So it looks like you need a Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort to DVI Dual link - the official apple one is the digital only one without the analogue pins ( DVI-D Dual Link ) , and thus should work , if you are worrying that you do not have the same pinout ( i.e. you have DVI-I Dual Link on your splitter , and it looks as though the analogue ones have nothing to connect to ) then do n't worry , it wo n't need them . EDIT - Additional Info After the comments , I have decided that you have a <URL> connector that looks like this : So what you really need is a MiniDisplay > DMS-59 adapter , and my google-fu suggests that this is not looking like a possibility , I think you would be better served abandoning this cable , and looking for a total replacement , Mini Display Port > 2 x DVI ( Single is fine , I or D if you have 2 ports ) . This may also be a pain to find , and you may end up needing a MDP/Thunderbolt to Dual Link DVI , followed by a Dual Link DVI > 2 X Single Link DVI splitter cable !
edit : See this as the behaviour has changed : <URL> There are two groups of people . Those who wish to have dual displays and have closing the lid go into sleep and people who wish to disable the monitor display , close the lid and use the external monitor as if you had ' docked ' with it . Previously , if you wished to switch from the macbook to an external monitor entirely then you had to perform the following to put the laptop into clamshell mode : Make sure the computer is plugged in to an outlet using the AC power adapter . Connect a USB keyboard and mouse to your computer . With the computer turned on connect the Apple portable ( using the appropriate Apple adapter if necessary ) to the appropriate port on the external display or projector and turn the display or projector on . Once your computer 's Desktop appears on the external display , close the computer 's lid . Once the lid is closed , wake the computer up by either clicking your mouse button or by pressing a key on your external keyboard . source : <URL> So to put the machine in clamshell mode required you to put it to sleep and wake it back up again . As far as user experience goes , that is somewhat jarring . As you have the other options to put the machine to sleep , it seems very likely that this change will remain . Right now , there is no way to alter this behaviour .
Your best bet is Apple 's <URL> . There are also assorted USB ethernet adapters available from various sources ( including <URL> ) , including a few <URL> , but the Thunderbolt one will likely have the best performance , so unless you 're using both Thunderbolt ports already , that 's the better choice .
Yipee ! I figured it out ! My problem is , as I forgot to mention in the question , I just got a new iPod . Aaaaaaand , I never realized it , but apparently when you get a new device , you have to download all your music into your library . Otherwise , you can still listen to it , but only over internet . Probably to save space . Downloading your songs can be done by tapping on the song or album , and then tapping " Make available offline " . Thank you everyone for your help !
end question
start question
Can I compile . NET C# code on my Mac ?
Check out the Mono Project . It may be what you are looking for . <URL> <URL> is a cross-platform IDE primarily designed for C# and other . NET languages . MonoDevelop enables developers to quickly write desktop and ASP.NET Web applications on Linux , Windows and Mac OSX . MonoDevelop makes it easy for developers to port . NET applications created with Visual Studio to Linux and Mac OSX maintaining a single code base for all platforms .
Your wish is my command ! Homebrew Formula : <URL> I 'll try to get the formula merged into homebrew proper sometime this week . In the meantime , you can simply :
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
The first option should be the most reliable : Open Settings.app , scroll down and tap on " iTunes &amp; App Stores " . The Apple ID that the device is currently signed into will be at the top of the screen next to " Apple ID " . Alternate methods ( only on iOS 5 or newer ) : Settings.app > iCloud ( under " Account " ) Settings.app > Messages > Send &amp; Receive At ( under " Apple ID " ) Settings.app > Facetime ( under " Apple ID " )
Though Quicktime does not ( and I could n't find a codec plugin to support it ) , <URL> apparently plays AVCHD video files ( . mts ) . There is also a way to use VLC to <URL> .
Yes ! The OS X Chess app relies on the <URL> engine , which has a command line version . Type and press enter to play : Make moves with the coordinates of the origin and destination you want : moves the piece at e1 to e4 . Sjeng does n't take any command line arguments , but you can edit the config file ( stored in ) . This will probably mess with your settings in the GUI Chess app ; make a backup before editing .
These files are stored in / . MobileBackups / and / . DocumentRevisions-V100 / . I am very surprised that your backup is so large - my Backups are only 300MB ! According to the Time Machine preference pane , TM will " keep local snapshots as space permits " . Do you have a lot of spare disk space ? Since these folders are owned by root , to check the size of these folders you 'll need to use sudo , or log in as root user . E.g. the command line commands :
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
Check out the Mono Project . It may be what you are looking for . <URL> <URL> is a cross-platform IDE primarily designed for C# and other . NET languages . MonoDevelop enables developers to quickly write desktop and ASP.NET Web applications on Linux , Windows and Mac OSX . MonoDevelop makes it easy for developers to port . NET applications created with Visual Studio to Linux and Mac OSX maintaining a single code base for all platforms .
On Lion/Mountain Lion , go to the Preferences on your Contact app , choose Accounts and then On My Mac , and there should be a checkbox Synchronize with Google , you will just need to provide your Gmail credentials . Just as a precaution , make a backup of your contacts first . Just need to go to Gmail , select Contacts , then the More button , Export to download all your contacts to your hard drive .
Why would you compile the engine ? It is not the full game , so you would n't be able to play after compilation . Anyway , if you 're still interested , there 's a thread on <URL> speaking about it , they also mention how to compile the project if you do n't have Xcode 3.2 Edit : for what is worth , <URL> the instructions for Xcode 4 .
Yes , you can easily copy virtual machines between systems . The easiest way would be to just create the virtual machine on your linux machine , and when you are ready to copy it over , you can export it as an appliance . This will give you a single file to copy over to you Macbook Air . Once you have the file copied over to your Air , you can then import it there , and you will be all set to try it out .
No - the IPA format does not make source code inclusion mandatory , so there 's no general way to do what you ask . As alluring as the idea is , just because something is possible on Android ( What you 're talking about is not in the sense you want it ) , does n't mean it will be possible on iOS . Now , if the developer decides to embed the source code into the IPA - you will be able to read it depending on the method of packaging it since the IPA contents are well documented by Apple on the developer site and many utilities exist to decode the application bundles .
Remove it from the list of " Preferred Networks " and it will stop auto-connecting . Go to " System Preferences " > " Networks " prefpane . Choose " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " on Lion ) on the left . Click the " Advanced " button . In the resulting sheet , choose the " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " ) tab . ( It should be the leftmost . ) Select your neighbor 's wifi network in the list and hit the " - " ( minus ) button . Live with joy at never [ auto - ] connecting there again !
SSH is simply a protocol used to connect to a remote computer . It does n't really restrict what you can or can not do once you 're logged in to that computer . And iOS does n't really have any restrictions on typical SSH usage ( except that you ca n't set up a tunnel for other apps ) . So if you can do what you need to using SSH from your computer to your school 's computer , then you should be able to do the same on the iPad with an SSH app . There are several iOS SSH clients around , my favourite is <URL> ; <URL> is pretty popular as well .
No - macs ship with one license to Lion - for that mac . If you buy an upgrade outright , that applies to all your macs .
Currently , no , your only option is to upgrade to iOS 7 . This is because <URL> and the <URL> shows iOS 7 as the only signed version . Note : Lookup the signing status ( or get the direct download links ) for <URL> .
The App Store found in iTunes is only for iPhone/iPod/iPad apps . Mac apps can be found on the <URL> . Angry Birds is available for Mac for <URL> . You can also play for free online at <URL> . Note that iPhone and iPad apps are not linked to desktop Mac apps , so when you buy an app for an iPhone or iPad , it does not come with a Mac version and there is no guarantee that a Mac version is even available . Sometimes apps are available on both the iOS ( iPhone/iPad ) App Store and the separate Mac App Store , as is the case for Angry Birds .
4.2.2 has , due to customer feedback , added a setting under You and Settings ( Gears icon ) to turn off the Week in Review and all notifications that fall outside the normal notifications . In detail , click the blue ' In ' icon in top left corner of screen , then the ' You ' pane , then the gear icon in the top right corner of screen , then set ' Notifications ' to ' off ' .
Yes you can , drop them into iTunes or email them to an account you can check via the iPad . You can choose to either read it in the Maill app or read it in iBooks . Or just use Safari on the iPad to go to <URL> and download the PDF to iBooks right there .
end question
start question
Is there a Safari plugin to remove mackeeper ads ?
Do you understand how to use the customization features in AdBlock to detect a specific ad and configure AdBlock to block it ? <URL> .
I found a <URL> . I tested a few of the solutions , including using a plastic collar stay , but the suggestion that worked was using two thin cardboard strips to release the grip . What worked for me : Find a thin , semi-glossy business card , or similar piece of cardboard and cut it into two strips about the width of the USB port . You can use an un-occupied port to make sure the strip is narrow enough to fit . Insert the strips on the two wide sides of the USB port , between the outside of the cable 's plug and the inside of the USB port . You may need to work the strips back and forth to get them in . I had to insert the strips to about 2/3 the depth of the port . If you have difficulty inserting the cardboard , you may need a thinner material . Grasp the sandwich of the cardboard strips and the USB plug . Pull . The plug should come out as easily as a normal plug would .
I do not have the Yosemite but on <URL> : The trick is to assign a second Space to the desktop . You do that by pressing the Mission Control button on your Mac keyboard ( F3 ) or whatever you 've assigned in System Preferences > Mission Control , and moving the mouse to the upper right of the display until you see a Plus ( + ) icon . Click it to create a new Space . After you 've created a second Space , your dock option will change . Now you 'll see this : Now you can assign the app to the Desktop of your choice , typically either the desktop on display # 1 or display # 2 .
A cursory look at the iTunes Store reveals <URL> ( iTunes Store Link ) . Since you can not compile on the iPad itself , this app leverages a web service ( <URL> ) in order to run the program and return the results to your device . The app is USD$ 3 and a universal binary ( iPhone + iPad ) . The web service appears to be free , if not just a little ugly :) .
No , you can not install fonts on any iOS device without jail breaking or by creating an app . But Safari can itself display fonts placed on a server with appropriate html code in the page .
The best 3rd-party based solution for you is to use <URL> . About Caffeine : A tiny program that puts an icon in the right side of your menu bar . Click it to prevent your Mac from automatically going to sleep , dimming the screen or starting screen savers . Click it again to go back . Hold down the Command key while clicking to show the menu .
Safari uses Webkit as it 's rendering engine . If you 're specifically looking for when it began to support HTML5/CSS3 , it as a fully open-source repository where you can review changes commit by commit . As such , you can see the full comprehensive , intricately detailed history here : <URL>
<URL> and <URL> . The port DB format is the default for new installations ; old installations that were upgraded to 1.9.x will continue to use the format1 . You can convert a 1.9.x system to the format by upgrading to MacPorts 2.0 or by changing the value in and then issuing a port command as root ( e.g. ) . One of the features of the new format is that it keeps track of " requested " versus " unrequested " port installations . An unrequested port is one that was only installed because some other port depends on it . The pseudo-portname expands to all the unrequested ports upon which no other installed port depends . You can use this to " clean up " unneeded ports even if you did not originally uninstall them with ( which will do what you want , but only if you remember to use it every time you uninstall something ) . You should examine your existing leaves before uninstalling any of them . Some common leaves ( , , , ) are build-time dependencies of common ports , so you may want to " request " them ( ) to avoid uninstalling them just to have to reinstall them later . You can uninstall any remaining leaves quite easily : Note : Before pruning your leaves , you may also want to uninstall old versions of ports that are no longer " active " . This may reveal a few more leaves ( i.e. ports that are dependencies of ports that are installed , but inactive ) : There are <URL> in the <URL> that also describe the process of using to uninstall unneeded ports .
No , Adblock/Adblock Plus have to install in a browser . Any app that is not a supported browser <URL> is not going to be able to make use of it . <URL> is one attempt to block all ads for all applications . I have n't tried it though .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
You do n't . ( not without jail breaking iOS ) More sadly , we 've gone from the situation on iOS 4 - > 5 - > 6 - > iOS 7 and still can not choose what certificates are trusted by the OS . This is either a bug in the iPhone configuration utility or an unimplimented feature . If you care , do reach out to apple to ask for this . <URL> or <URL> Unless you are comfortable writing a technically correct bug , the feedback link is a better avenue . Calling AppleCare or asking for this at the genius bar might also be worthwhile .
In Safari 9.0 ( El Capitano ) you can right-click on the URL while holding down the option key and you then have the option to open the URL in a new private window . This option is provided from regular or private windows , unlike what appears to be the case in previous versions of Safari . <URL>
The answer seems to be yes . Check out the FILE section of <URL> In addition to that , shell paths are also loaded from and the files ( if any ) in by ( which is executed as part of ) .
I think not , only by using a hardware keyboard or via copy/paste from another doc or an app like Unicode Maps . You might be able to make a custom layout as well with Unicode Maps . Also have a look at Keyman .
I ended up using the terminal to delete it , and whatever it is , hopefully is gone ( it no longer hijacks my browsers ) . EDIT : I used the commands rm - rf to delete the original file .
You should edit your top sites and pin what do you want to see every time .
I use the following bookmark , which you can create as many as needed , to resize my safari window to a specific size : This moves the window to the far left , top and then makes the width 1250 pixels and makes the hight fill to the available ( limited by the dock hight , if not hidden ) . To use , bookmark any page and then edit the address with the code above . Every now and again , an update to safari will break this , and then it 'll work again after a subsequent update .
May be able just create a simlink to the / User directory . To do this , open up Terminal and enter : You 'll want to move your original Users folder out of the way ( rename it or move it or whatever ) . * Where [ SeperateDrivePath ] is the path to your volume just underneath the cloned / Users folder . Probably something like / Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name / . In this case , your clones / Users should exist at/Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name/Users .
You can download <URL> , install , and reboot , and it should be listed in . Make sure that it 's enabled ( there should be a button saying ) : Note : You probably want to check because Java always pops up and asks you if you want it to run . Once you finish this , you can <URL> .
You can still access data from " dee 's backup " by selecting " Browse Other Time Machine Disks " from Time Machine 's Dock menu . ( Right click or click-and-hold on TM 's icon in the Dock . ) TM is holding onto both sets of data because even though YOU know you copied all the data from the old machine to the new , all TM knows is that a bunch of data just showed up on the new machine . It does n't know where that data came from , but knows it should be backed up . When TM , running on " dee 's Macbook Pro " , needs to delete files to make room , it can only delete files backed up from " dee 's Macbook Pro " . Even the root user on that machine has no authority ( and can not give TM authority ) do delete some other computer 's backup files . You do n't need any of " dee 's iMac " backup . As you say , everything from that computer got copied over , and none of it has been needed since last year . It 's time to let it go . To do that , open the Backups.backupdb folder on your backup disk , and delete the subfolder named " dee 's iMac " . ( I 'm assuming you 're backing up to an external disk connected to your MBP . Details will be different if you 're backing up to a Time Capsule or a network volume , but the principle is the same . ) Time Machine wo n't let you modify that backup in any way except that it will allow you to delete it in its entirety . You 'll need to authenticate as an admin to do that . And it will take a while . You should be able to delete it using Finder , but if not you can enter the Terminal command :
end question
start question
Can CPU Speed Stepping be prevented ?
It is unlikely you will find a reliable and trivial tool for changing the processor 's low level power management away from Apple 's recommendations . As a user , you are limited to the options available in the Energy Saver panel of System Preferences and <URL> . To stop the processor stepping up or down depending on power available , will require a custom kernel extension . <URL> is handled by a layer called <URL> within the kernel . Writing code within the IOKit is not trivial ; mistakes can induce kernel panics and do serious harm to the system 's stability . As of 10.8.2 , OS X considers 20 % battery to be the first stage of a low battery warning . If your battery is at 5 % , it is likely your Mac will shortly be entering emergency sleep or hibernation mode in order to safeguard your data .
You should definitely try resetting the SMC , since it 's a known fix for fan issues . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
If everything else was equal ( CPU architecture , generation , manufacturing process , OS , power management strategy , software running etc. ) the answer is maybe . Modern CPUs like the i3/i5/i7 series downclock themselves when idle so it depends what you 're doing and what the actual CPUs are . If everything is as equal as you can make it and you compare CPUs of identical generation , one with maximum clock speed higher than the other and you are using the CPUs to their maximum capacity - then the more powerful CPU does drain the battery faster - but it gets more work done in the same time too , and might get back to the idle state faster . You can only really answer this question if you test your exact scenario .
It is unlikely you will find a reliable and trivial tool for changing the processor 's low level power management away from Apple 's recommendations . As a user , you are limited to the options available in the Energy Saver panel of System Preferences and <URL> . To stop the processor stepping up or down depending on power available , will require a custom kernel extension . <URL> is handled by a layer called <URL> within the kernel . Writing code within the IOKit is not trivial ; mistakes can induce kernel panics and do serious harm to the system 's stability . As of 10.8.2 , OS X considers 20 % battery to be the first stage of a low battery warning . If your battery is at 5 % , it is likely your Mac will shortly be entering emergency sleep or hibernation mode in order to safeguard your data .
There is no reason this should not work . Assuming your model supports iOS 7 of course . I 'd like to be able to tell you more . But there is just not much to say . The lock to a certain provider is not affected by an upgrade to iOS 7 . Provider settings will just be the same as well .
Possibly a duplicate of this question : <URL> On this question , the highest voted answer suggests that you use BetterTouchTool ( download from here : <URL> )
<URL> is the tool you need . You can install it with <URL> . You can monitor a series of processes by name by running the Bash script below . I 'm not quite sure how to turn this into a login item since requires superuser permissions . Run it as a script , in an Automator workflow , whatever :
Each year when you renew your program membership you can remove devices added in previous years . So if you had 100 devices allocated , you could delete 5 and add 5 new devices . As soon as you add a new device , you can no longer remove devices for the remainder of that year . So what they are telling you is each year , after renewal , delete any devices you need to remove first . Once you add your first new device , you are only permitted to add devices until your next renewal up to a maximum of 100 devices .
It 's highly doubtful that it would work with a guest account , since everything is deleted upon logout . If you created a " friends " user account with no password and gave them " standard " user access , it might be possible ( though it certainly wo n't be pretty ) . First , because Valve apparently has no idea how easy it is to use to broadcast messages between user accounts , they 've set the Steam app up to prohibit multiple instances from running . In other words , for a guest to be able to launch Steam.app in the friends user account , it can not be running in any other user account . If it is , you 'd have to go into that user account first to quit it , then go back to the friends user account . ( It honestly takes about 10 lines of code to have Steam broadcast a message to all other user accounts that the Steam that you 're launching now is in control , and all other instances could quit themselves , but Valve is fairly challenged with such things ) . So , provided it is n't running in another user account , it would work . However , given the ridiculous amount of files and data Steam wants to be able to write to inside its own application bundle ( inside the Steam.app bundle ) , you might be better off creating a separate copy of the application altogether , specifically for that user . Reason being , the Steam application will take on the ownership of whoever first installed it , and when another user tries to use it , they wo n't have write permissions to the application bundle . You could also try modifying the bundle to give it less restrictive permissions . ( This whole thing could be handled by using a simple , privileged helper tool ) . So , provided you have a copy of Steam which the friends ' user account has write access to , then we move on to the real fun , which is the several GB worth of . gcf files that make up the content of the game . By default , the game files are stored in : / Users / < username > / Library/Application Support/Steam/SteamApps / Since one user does n't have access to another user 's files ( for obvious reasons ) , you would need to re-download all of the needed files , or copy them over from the other user account . You could also try re-locating the SteamApps folder to a common location that all users have access to , such as the / Applications / folder . ( I 've written an application that helps with creating the symbolic link after the relocation process : <URL> ) . You 'll then run into the same issues with permissions as with the app itself , so you 'd need to change them to make sure they 're writable to the users in question . For a guest account , it might work if you had everything in a central location , and then had a global login item or a launchd job in the / Library/LaunchAgents / folder that would perform a couple of operations in the guest user account upon login . It would need to copy the files inside the / Users / < username > / Library/Application Support/Steam / that are responsible for saving the Steam user account and password to the guest user 's Application Support folder , so that the user would be able to login automatically without having to enter your Steam ID and password each time . It would also need to make sure there was a " SteamApps " symbolic link inside the / Users / < guest > / Library/Application Support/Steam / to point to the location of the game content files . In short , what you would like to do , i.e. be able to play Steam games from another user account on the same Mac , is a perfectly reasonable desire . As far as I know , it 's something that is already possible in the Windows version of Steam , without having to jump through 100 hoops first . It 's also something that 's entirely possible for them to have done in the Mac OS X version by using a central data location along with a privileged helper tool ( I 've been using such an approach in my own application for the last 7 years and it works well ) . In its current implementation , however , it 's not possible to do this in the Mac version without some pretty ugly workarounds .
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
You 'll want and commands to dump accounting information to a file . <URL> . The perl script at the end works well - look out for * characters in the shell - those might need to get filtered or the input sanitized if the perl script does n't show you totals .
<URL> Seems like " no " for 2011 . Grr . . very frustrating !
I ca n't find any playback app on the iPad with the exact 1.7 ratio ... However , <URL> has 1.5 and 1.75 playback ratios . They even say in their site blurb that it 's good for fast reviewing of lectures . Reviews are excellent and integration with Mail and Dropbox is there , as well as a very comprehensive codec list
Sorry , looks like Siri pulls whatever is set in the Clock app for its timers . The only solution is to manually change it in Clock each time .
Yes , it does slow down . It 's more and more noticeable as time goes by . <URL> <URL> . ( This is just a solution that has worked for many people . This is not Apple 's official solution . They are working on a solution . ) 1 - Disable spotlight search . Settings - > General - > Home Button - > Spotlight Search . Uncheck things you do n't search for . Uncheck all is best I guess ? 2 - Perform DHR ( double hard reset ) To perform a Hard Reset , press and hold the Home and Sleep/Wake buttons on your iPhone simultaneously for 5 to 10 seconds . After a few seconds the Slide to Power Off notice will appear , ignore this and keep holding down both buttons . In another few seconds the device should abruptly turn off , followed by the Apple logo and a reboot . Now release the buttons . If your iPhone remains powered off , wait about 15 seconds then boot the phone by pressing the Sleep/Wake button . Do this one more time . I think this is related to iPhone running out of memory ( RAM ) . But that 's just my guess .
I 've used smcFanControl when I had a 1st Gen Macbook Pro 15 '' . It 's not harmful in the sense that the fan is designed to be on , but of course , like any other mechanical device , the more you use it , the faster it wears out . If your Macbook Pro is getting too hot , try one of those utilities to see if it helps . In any case , getting a cooling pad is not a bad idea . Depending upon the type of work and conditions that you have , a Fanless may be enough . I believe the " best " fanless was the <URL> . And for cooling pads with a Fan , you 'll have to see and trust the power of <URL> . These generally use a USB port to drive a couple of Fans . Among the best features you can look for are the provision of an extra USB ( so you do n't lose your port ) , portability if you move and sound level of the fans , whether they can be turned on/off , etc. .
As others already let clear , Apple does n't offer any good solution for those issues . They should n't exist , Apple would say . But they do . That said , your best bet is jailbreaking and getting <URL> to " Free Memory " or some specific app that does it , such as <URL> . I 've just installed it on mine through <URL> , but you can also find it on <URL>
Yes . Terminal supports escape sequences for manipulating windows , including the size and position , layering , and minimizing . Dimensions can be expressed in pixels or characters . See <URL> for details ( search for " Window manipulation " ; if you 're not familiar with the notation , " CSI " stands for " Control Sequence Introducer " , which is ) . For example , this shell command will set the window to 100x50 characters : Minimize the window for a few seconds , then restore it : Move the window to the top/left corner of the display : Zoom the window : Bring the window to the front ( without changing keyboard focus ) :
Looking at your data - your storage has to be performing horribly . SSD HD : 245/249 .77 GB Used To fix this : Make a bootable backup and test it ( or make sure your Time Machine or off-site backup is solid and you know how to restore / how long that will take ) Make a new user account Delete your main user account and let the Users &amp; Groups preference pane delete all your user files . Boot the mac into recovery and run disk utility to check the directory structure and most importantly - allow the unused blocks to be trimmed . ( alternatively you could boot into single user mode and run fsck on the unmounted volume . That trims unused blocks equally well ) Once that is done , start up the Mac and log in to your new test account . Collect timing statistics on what you wish to benchmark . Make sure you have repeatable numbers ( maybe run 5 tests - see if you have to discard high/low values - if so , better to make 10 measurements ) . Now that you have a solid benchmark of how the software performs with enough space on the drive to arrange the storage efficiently and for rapid read/write performance , you can contemplate moving back some or all of your user files from your backup . I like to keep 50 GB or 10 % of free space on my SSD - whichever is the larger amount for maximum performance . Any less than 6 GB free + size of RAM is a danger zone and means I am sacrificing serious speed to have the drive that full . Get a <URL> , or <URL> or spinning HDD to hold your large files and you will probably have to do nothing else to speed up your Mac .
I do n't know if it will accept a time frame as a parameter , but <URL> definitely will provide Growl notifications based upon specific criteria . Triggers Triggers can be setup to activate any script when a predefined value reaches its target . For example , a script could be written to email system administrator when the CPU usage goes above 90 % . Two sample scripts , one basic and the other one a little bit more advanced using GROWL , are included .
end question
start question
How to checksum for a DVD under Panther ?
It looks like <URL> supports checksumming , even if the Disk Utility GUI might not : ( The supported types of checksums are listed in the man page . A common one seems to be . If you use or the checksums will be calculated separately per partition . ) Or you could always simply use the command :
I would recommend using TextEdit since it is free and the default text editor on OS X . You only need to learn a key shortcut ( Shift-Command-T ) to convert the current file to plain text . Of course other GUI text editors exist on Mac platform but they need to be installed from the App Store or from Internet ( see other answers for a selection of the most popular ones ) . There is even a setting in TextEdit to let all new documents start as plain text going forward : Again , this setting is for new documents , so if a document is already open , ⇧ ⌘ T ( Format > Make Plain Text ) instantly converts a rich text document to plain text .
I looked around for something like <URL> a while back but everything I found was pretty horrid . In the end I decided to just use and on the command line .
This is the important site <URL> . Below some misc instructions but you need the site if you use Google calendar with some iOS devices such as iPhone or iPad . Basic Default-calendar - setup You can decide the default calendar in Settings more <URL> , useful if you need to change it with different works , schools or universities for instance . Setting up many Google Calendars to iPad under your account Please , preview this thread <URL> . You need nothing like CalenMob , use the default iOS - calendar and then decide which calendars to share with Apple products such as iPhone and iPad <URL> . For some reason , Google calls it iPhone sync but in reality it handles also the iPad - calendar , perhaps also other Apple products ? Why is it enough to set up just Google - calendars ? Because you can import other calendars such as Facebook-event-calendar , more <URL> , to Google Calendars which you can later show with your Apple products such as iPad by the above instructions . Have Fun !
<URL> Google Calendar Synchronization -- Sync iCal with Google Calendar for online read-write access to your calendars from any computer , anywhere . Requirements Mac OS X 10.4 , or Mac OS X 10.5 , or Mac OS X 10.6
It appears Parallels is the cause of the issue . Found some instructions on <URL> and executed step 1 . DVDs now working great !
The easiest method to show which folder an email is currently located is to right click on the header bar in Outlook and add the " folder " ( visible columns have a check mark to the left of it ) column to the current view . This will show you which folder said email is contained in when you perform a search . If you no longer wish to have the " folder " seen in the current view just reverse the process to hide it again . If this is your only customization to the current view you can alternately choose to " reset to defaults " by right clicking on the header bar and choosing the reset to defaults action .
I believe that opening a . DMG file automatically verifies it . Basically , it contains a checksum in the file ( or are you worried about malicious packages , rather then just corruption ? ) . Anyways , when I open a . dmg file , I see the message box with a progress bar say " Verifying " for a while , before it actually mounts . Asmus added in a comment above : " you can use on the command line to compare an image against its internal checksum . "
Yes . Go to the Settings app , and select safari . There will be a section called " Autofill " , and you can enable it to save your passwords and auto-fill your personal information taken from the address book . Also , iOS automatically saves all Wi-Fi passwords , so there is no need to save it manually yourself .
Crowd-sourced Wi-Fi and cellular Location Services If Location Services is on , your device will periodically send the geo-tagged locations of nearby Wi-Fi hotspots and cell towers in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to augment Apple 's crowd-sourced database of Wi-Fi hotspot and cell tower locations . In addition , if you 're traveling ( for example , in a car ) and Location Services is on , a GPS-enabled iOS device will also periodically send GPS locations and travel speed information in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to be used for building up Apple 's crowd-sourced road traffic database . The crowd-sourced location data gathered by Apple does n't personally identify you . <URL>
Besides the Compilation checkbox , look under the Sorting tab . The songs are probably configured with sort artist as " various artist " . Clear that field for all of the tracks and they will default back to the appropriate artist value .
You can re-download Lion even though it has already been installed by holding down the option key before clicking Purchased . Do not release the key until after the option to Install appears alongside OS X Lion . The workaround may be more reliable if something other than Purchased is in foreground before alt/option-clicking Purchased . Burn the installer to disc , then delete it when you 're done with it .
This is deliberate from Apple and you will not be able to take screen shots using DVD player . You can either use VLC and then a screen shot program ( Cmd-3 and Cmd-4 works for me ) , or transcode your DVD to a QuickTime movie using Handbrake ( which may take too long for you to find it interesting ) . The latter will allow you to use QuickTime player which can do quite a bit .
I used to work as an Apple Hardware Technician , and the biggest non-damage related issue I 've seen with those machines is usually the battery ( which is not technically user-replaceable ) . I 'd make sure that it runs for at least 3-4 hours on a full charge . Also make sure that the optical drive works , because I 've seen a number of those go out , as well , but that can be said for any notebook computer . You will also want to check for the normal stuff : Impact to the casing , cracked screen , liquid damage , etc. . That seems like a pretty good deal , however . It looks like the average price on eBay is around $ 600 , and that machine will have plenty of power for your purposes . Heck , I still do development on a 2009 Macbook and it works great . For future reference , you can always find a listing of the open repair extensions ( which are basically known-issues ) at <URL> .
The usual way people upgrade between revisions is to buy the newer revision , shift any hardware over that they want to keep ( like a high-end graphics card ) , wipe the drives &amp; reinstall MacOS X , and put the old machine up for sale locally or on eBay . Unless you live nowhere near a major metropolitan area , you wo n't have issues reselling the machine if you want to . Every time there 's a new model , you usually see a bunch of folks selling their old systems . The logic board may be interchangeable between different systems , but you 're flying in unknown territory with that one - the logic board is tightly integrated with / customized to a lot of other components in the chassis ( front panel controls , power supply , etc. ) Since Apple only sells parts to Apple Authorized Resellers and their technicians , your only option for purchasing a logic board ( or replacement non-standard PC components ) would be through ebay or a handful of used-mac-parts companies ( like iFixit . ) They buy new or used systems and disassemble them for parts . CPUs on systems with socketed processors have some upgradeability ; people have upgraded their Mac Pros this way ( some Mac Minis and iMacs also had socketed processors , too ) and documented as such on the usual Mac-related web boards/forums . This is expensive on the Mac Pros , given they 're Xeons . There should be no need to upgrade the power supply ; they 're reliable and designed to handle the maximum capabilities of the machines , which include some pretty ' big ' GPU configurations . No , you ca n't pop an ATX supply in . Depending on which generation of Mac Pro , the memory is specialized ; some take FB-DIMMs . There have been reports that some aftermarket ram modules do n't work well in some Mac Pros ( temperature/heatsink issues ) , but a major manufacturer/reseller like Crucial should supply working memory . Drives are completely standard SATA . Same with CD/DVD-ROm drives ( verify the drive model works with OS X first . ) There 's an optional hardware RAID controller card that 's probably not worth it . Areca , Adaptec , and others make compatible RAID controller cards ; if bootability is important to you , check on this , as not all of them are . Graphics cards are standardized for the most part ( save some which have custom connectors ; for example , mine has a DVI port and a mini-displayport . ) The question is compatibility with MacOS X , but there are a very large number of compatible cards , and the Hackintosh community has pretty thoroughly documented that one for you already . Sidenote : consider an iMac . It can drive a second display out of the box , they have a second internal hard drive bay , the i7 's are as fast or faster than the Xeons in some applications , and they 're a LOT cheaper than a Mac Pro ; probably quieter and use less power , too . Spend the $ on more memory or an SSD , etc - an iMac with an SSD will wipe the floor with a Mac Pro without .
You can do this -- just configure the Ubuntu virtual machine with a static IP . The choice of IP will depend on the network you 're connecting to ... You did n't mention if you were using a NAT or Bridged connection , and the choice of IP will different based on that . I can provide specific instructions if you like , but , they 'll be all things you do within the Ubuntu VM , not within the Mac environment . ( So you may find better luck asking on <URL> or <URL> ) You could also install the " avahi-daemon " package in Ubuntu and then you wo n't need to remember the VM 's IP address , you can use as if it were a Mac with Bonjour . EDIT : I see you 're using a NAT interface . I typed up a long list of instructions only got get stuck on the final step . I 'll do more research into this , but in the meantime , <URL> , but might work on the Mac side ... Here 's incomplete instructions , I will finish them up shortly : VMware Susion starts assigning IPs via DHCP at ( at least on my machine ) . The first three octets of the IPs are defined by a network probe which happened when you installed VMware , so you 'll want to determine what network VMware chose for you , and then choose an IP underneath the range VMware assigns via DHCP to avoid conflicts : Determine what network VMware chose : In the Ubuntu Virtual Machine , choose . In the window that appears , under " Network Device " , choose " Ethernet Interface ( eth0 ) " . In the list below , look for " IPv4 " . Look at the IP address in the right hand column , and make note of the first three octets ( numbers between the dots ) . On my machine , this is : Choose a new static IP : You can make up any number from 2 to 127 which will be appended to the network from step 1 , as long as it does n't conflict with any other static IPs you have assigned . Let 's say you choose 15 , because I like the number 15 . In my example your static IP would then be . Configure Ubuntu to use a static IP : Go to in the Ubuntu VM . Under " Wired " choose " Auto eth0 " and click " edit " . Go to " IPv4 Settings " and set " Method : " to " Manual " . Next to " Addresses " , click the " Add " button . In the new row that appears , under " Address " , enter the IP you close ( in my example ) . Under Netmask , enter . Under gateway , enter the first three octets of your IP , followed by . ( In my example , the gateway would be ) . Under DNS Servers , enter ... oh , crap , this is being provided by DHCP . Let me figure out a way to make this work
Generally and legally no , since the installer on the DVD is checking for machine specific model identifier for the MacBook Pro that the DVD came with as shown in <URL> . Once the file is opened , scroll down about 3/4 of a page and you will come across a series of strings named hwbeSupportedMachines . Now , technically the DVD 's that came with Macs included a standard Mac OS 10.x.x Install plus new drivers for hardware specific features for that new model , stuff that would not be known about or included in the 10.x retail install DVD <URL> . Which means the OS that came with your Macbook Pro once its installed on the Mac Book Pro should include all it needs to run on the iMac too . You just have to get it there , which you could do via cloning a 10.6 install from the MacBook Pro to the iMac or maybe via installing OS X 10.6 on the iMac via the MacBook Pro using FireWire target disk mode . Untested Solution if you want go the Upgrade path of 10.5 to 10.8 wihout erasing the iMac Backup important Data on iMac Boot the iMac into target disk mode , by holding down the T key while boot the iMac . Connect iMac to the MacBook Pro via FireWire Boot the MacBook Pro from its 10.6 Installer DVD Try to select for installation of OS x 10.6 the hard drive with 10.5 installed on it in the iMac . Note : This is the untested part , the Restore / Install DVD may not allow upgrades from prior OS X versions . Boot up the iMac and then upgrade to latest version of OS X 10.6 Install OS X 10.8 Recommended Solution : This will promote better performance via a clean install to a blank disk thus reducein legacy cruft and other left-overs from old OS X installs and old Applications , etc. . First thing upgrade the MacBook Pro to Mountain Lion , if you have not done so already . Next back up all your files you want from the iMac , since OS X Lion / Mountain Lion will not be able to upgrade users from Mac OS X 10.5 to 10.8 . Create a boot able Mountain Lion install disk ( using a hard drive or usb thumb drive ) Open the Mac App Store , go to purchases and re-download the Install Mountain Lion Installer . Create a boot able disk drive by extracting the InstallESD.dmg from it to a external drive or partition . See <URL> Connect the external drive to the iMac Start the iMac while holding down the option key . Select the MTN Lion installer to boot from . Once the MTN Lion installer loads open Disk Utility and Erase the Hard drive in the iMac Quit Disk Utility Install OS X 10.8 by selecting Reinstall Mac OS X
You probably wo n't like this answer , but as far as I know , there is no legal way to burn those episodes onto a DVD in a way that is playable in your DVD player . The problem is that the iTunes episodes are encrypted with Apple 's FairPlay DRM and DVD players do not know how to decrypt them . In order to make the videos playable in a DVD player , you would need to circumvent the DRM and this is illegal in many countries . As an alternative , you could buy an AppleTV and hook it up to your television . At $ 99 , it is a relatively inexpensive investment , and it would allow you to stream your iTunes shows to your TV while keeping your laptop and iPad free for your own use .
This is by no means a complete answer but if the DVD you are ripping contains Closed Captioning subtitles then <URL> gets you this for free . Simply add the subtitles as a track . You 'll be able to clearly see what must be burned in and what does n't have to be by the options that have been greyed out . I actually really like this option and use it whenever I can because different software can display these subtitles in different formats and all of the Apple playback software that I 've used does a really nice job of displaying it readably and beautifully . I should also note that unchecking the check box wo n't make any difference on an iPad . The problem is with bitmap subtitles . Essentially , I have found no software that can preserve alpha transparency when they rip bitmap subtitles and thus they require burn in to the resultant file if you want to use them directly in any Apple playback software . If you want to go this route , I have enough space to simply rip it twice , once with subtitles and once without . What you 're left with is a variety of OCR techniques that are shoddy at best as far as what I 've seen on the Mac . I have heard good things about <URL> if you have any access to Windows . Another option is to download an open SRT file and add it manually to the container . You could search for these via traditional means or give <URL> a try . YMMV . As long as the container format you 're ripping to is mp4 ( it should be if you 're ripping for Apple devices ) , you can use <URL> to add the external SRT track in post .
Yes , during install you can start disk utility and re-partition/format the hard drive . Make sure you set it as a GUID partition type so that OS X recognises it is a boot drive .
end question
start question
Fast user switching : how to prevent volumes from being unmounted ?
You can stop Mac OS X unmounting user disks on log-out . This behaviour is controlled with a default ( preference ) . In <URL> , <URL> shares the appropriate command to issue : This command needs to be entered into Applications > Utilities > Terminal.app . Aftwards you must restart your Mac for the change to take effect . Note that the tool has been replaced by ; it is possible Mac OS X 10.8 has migrated this default to another file . You may also find this Super User question useful , <URL> .
Below are some basic steps to install the Boot Camp Support Software and configure Windows Update before updates are downloaded from Microsoft . Windows Update can only be configured if you are installing Windows 10 Pro or better . I do not know of a way to configure Windows Update for Windows 10 Home . The steps given below can still be used to install the Boot Camp Support Software . Hint : For a better view , click on an image or open an image in a new window . Before installing Windows 10 , make sure your computer can not communicate with the internet . If the computer is hardwired to the internet , disconnect it now . Start installing Windows 10 . You may be asked to connect to the internet via Wi-Fi . If a window similar to below appears , click on " Skip this step " . <URL> When you reach the following screen , put the computer in Audit mode by pressing the following keys . With the ctrlshift keys held down , press the F3 key . Hold all three keys down for about 3 seconds or until the computer starts to reboot . <URL> If you see the screen below , do nothing . The computer will login automatically to the Administrator account . <URL> Eventually , you should get the following screen showing the Administrator 's desktop . You can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window . <URL> Check the clock and make any needed corrections . Right click on the clock shown on the task bar at the bottom right of the screen and select " Adjust date/time " . See image shown below . <URL> Install the Boot Camp Support Software ( BCSS ) by opening the setup Application in the appropriate BCSS folder . If you get a Windows version error message similar to what is shown below , proceed to step 9 . <URL> If you get a Boot Camp x64 error message similar to what is shown below , proceed to step 10 . Otherwise , goto step 11 . <URL> You can remedy the situation by right clicking on the highlighted setup application entry and selecting " Properties " , as shown below . <URL> Next , click on the " Compatibility " tab , check off " Run this program in compatibility for : " box and select the appropriate previous version of Windows . An illustration is shown below . <URL> Click the " OK " button and a open the setup application to install the BCSS . If the computer reboots , you can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window and any Boot Camp windows . Proceed to step 11 . You can remedy the situation by using the Finder application to navigate to the Windows Installer Package named " BootCamp64 " or similar file . Right click on the file entry and select " Properties " , as shown below . <URL> Next , click on the " Compatibility " tab , check off " Run this program in compatibility for : " box . An illustration is shown below . <URL> Click the " OK " button . Right click on the file entry and select " Install " , as shown below . This starts the installation of the BCSS . If the computer reboots , you can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window and any Boot Camp windows . <URL> If you do not want to configure Windows Update or have Windows 10 Home , you should skip this step . To proceed , right click on the Start button on the taskbar and select " Run " , as shown below . <URL> In the popup windows , enter " gpedit.msc " and click the Ok button , as shown below . <URL> Select " Local Computer Policy → Computer Configuration → Administrative Templates → Windows Components → Windows Update " , as shown below . <URL> Next , right click on " Configure Automatic Updates " and select " Edit " . The " Configure Automatic Updates " windows should appear as shown below . <URL> If you want to " Never check for updates " click the " Disabled " button , otherwise click the " Enabled " button and choose your option . The result from choosing option 2 is shown below . <URL> When finished , click the " OK " button to close the window . Also , close the " Local Group Policy Editor " window . Next , Click on the Start button on the task bar and select " Settings → Update &amp; security → Windows Update → Check for updates " . When the following message occurs , click " Advanced options " . <URL> Inspect the window to confirm you selection . Below is the correct window for option 2 . <URL> Close the " Settings " window . Connect your computer to the internet . If you computer was hardwired to the internet , plug it back in now . If you were using Wi-Fi , enable it and join a network . If the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window is not displayed , reboot the computer . Click the " OK " button in the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window . Use the default settings shown in the image below . <URL> When the computer reboots , you will have left the Audit mode . You should boot to the following display . <URL> On my computer , I was able to select the " United States ( Apple ) " keyboard . You may want to check if a better choice exists than the default keyboard . At this point , you can continue with the Windows 10 installation . Additional Notes : There is a downloadable <URL> from Microsoft , that will allow you to review and/or hide updates before downl
To give you an answer the best I can with the research I 've done . This is a relatively new addition in the OS . If I am not mistaken since 10.8 and what happened is Apple changed the Helper daemon . I do not know of a way to configure the helperd parameters . My recommendation is to give Apple feedback via <URL> and ask that they give the ability to toggle it or remove it all together . Additionally ask the mad scientists here to include the functionality <URL>
Arrrgh . I found the reason , my own stupidity . :) I use a Bluetooth keyboard whose keys are extremely sensitive to pressure when it 's stowed in the backpack . It usually goes to sleep when not used , but wakes up when you press a key . The " play " key on that keyboard was what made the iPad blare away .
Currently , there does n't seem to be a way to prevent iTunes from pulling in the voice memos . The closest I 've been able to figure would be to have a script or launchd item that simply removes anything that it sees . Preferable copying them to another directory for storage .
iTunes loads the most recent view on startup . Selecting anything other than iTunes Store or Ping in the left sidebar before closing iTunes means that the store will not load on startup . The store will then first load when you select iTunes Store or Ping .
I finally fixed the issue without data loss . Here is what I did : Created a backup from the iPhone while the Mail app was still broken Run within iTunes ( I tried which did not fix the issue ) After the iPhone was reset to its factory defaults I set it up using the backup I did in 1 .
Apple uses the following hostnames for distributing OTA updates : mesu.apple.com appldnld.apple.com Blocking access to these hostnames should prevent iOS from downloading the updates , resulting in one of the following errors , based on whether the device has knowledge of the update or not before the access is blocked : Software Update Failed : An error occurred downloading iOS 7 . Software Update Unavailable : Software Update is not available at this time . Try again later . Unable to Check for Update : An error occurred while checking for a software update . iOS devices use the following XML file to find the relevant update and download file : <URL> Blocking access just to this file should be sufficient providing that the devices have no knowledge of the update prior to your blocking .
When you go to shutdown/restart , unclick the check box to disable the resume feature , which is likely what is opening all these windows ( that were present upon shutdown ) . If this does n't do it , check that these applications are not in your user start up list .
How does an iPhone send iMessages to iPad : Make sure iMessage is set " on " on both devices On your iPhone , go to Contacts and find your friend 's name to check whether or not you have his email address . If not , you need to add his email address . On the iPad , go to settings >> messages >> recieve at >> add email . Put your friend 's email address from step 2 . It will say " verify " . Your friend need to verify by checking his email . There 'll be an email from Apple . Open the email and he 'll be asked to click on the verify link . Click on it and he 'll be directed to Apple 's homepage . Just follow the instructions there . Once your friend has verified his email address , the word " verify " in step 3 disappears . Now you can iMessage him . On your iPhone , go to contacts and choose your friend 's name . Click on " send message " and choose the email address that was just verified . You 're now directed to the message screen . In the " To " field , you 'll see that the email adress is missing " @ " . Ignore it . Make sure that the send button is blue . Now just type your message and send . Hope this works !
Upgrade to iOS 4.2 . It fixes both the charging brightness and the locked screen brightness bugs . I just tried it and it works .
Whether your internet connection is slow may have several reasons : poor , instable connection geographic location total traffic on the network you 've reached your cap ( see contract ) For the normal users it 's difficult to determine what the exact reason is . Especially in dense areas , the promised speed is not reached sometimes because the total traffic of all users is very high . Where I live , the same network is used by different providers , adding additional complications . In order to judge if your network connection slower than usual , you should test and record your network speed for several times throughout a month . You can use <URL> to get stats about Download , Upload and Ping . You can use this data to check the speed you 've been promised by your provider . Check your contract to see what speed you have been promised . Most contracts throttle the speed after you have reached a cap .
Removing CSS3 blur filters seemed to fix the issue . I just went through almost every single file and line until Safari 6.0.2 stopped crashing . Nevertheless , I still have no idea why a single line of CSS3 , , was causing these unexpected crashed .
What you observe is the default setting for podcasts in iTunes , which is to download the most recent episode of a podcast . To avoid this , follow these steps : Go to Podcasts in the iTunes Library pop-up menu . Select a podcast . Right click and choose " Settings " ( or alternatively , click on the gear icon next to the podcast title on the episode list on the right ) . In the Podcast Settings dialog , under the " Settings for : " dropdown , select " Podcasts Defaults " ( this would apply your changes to all podcasts ) . In the " When new episodes are available : " dropdown , select " Do nothing " ( the default option being " Download the most recent one " ) . Click OK . With this change , iTunes will never download new episodes for any of your podcasts . If you wish to change this setting only for specific podcasts , you can do so by selecting the specific podcast in the " Settings for : " dropdown and/or by changing the defaults .
Unfortunately this is something that is n't possible . As you are aware , the only control we have over any double-clicking in the " Double-Click Speed " in Mouse preferences . Any changes here would be undesirable as it would affect the entire system and your goal is just the Messages app . There is a convenient keyboard shortcut , Command + W , to close the new window that comes up , so at least you do n't have to go over and manually close the window . I suppose this is a feature request that does n't come up very often but you could at least do what you can and <URL> .
Go to Safari → Preferences ( or hit ⌘ cmd + , ) . Go to Privacy and click on the Do not preload Top Hit in the background option .
In Finder , press ⌘ ShiftG and type and press Enter . Press ⌘ I to bring up the file information pane . Click the Locked checkbox . This will not prevent you from moving widgets around , opening new widgets , etc. , but will preserve the arranged state of widgets at the time of locking such that any future time you launch Dashboard ( rebooting , logging in , restarting Dock , etc ) , they will be preserved in their state at the time you locked the Dashboard .
The answer was to remove the stored value in KeyChain ( there were multiple for the user ; had to find the one specific to the IP of my NAS ) .
Go into the keyboard settings and add a shortcut for the corrected spelling of the word . I had to do this with my daughter 's name , as every time I spelled it , it would come out in capitals . You can just use a part of the word and it can auto spell the word for you , or you can spell it with a different capitalization and save the corrected version the other way . If you need to use the first part of the word it may not work . Do n't really know , but it worked for me ;-)
Back up your iPad with iTunes . Back up that hard drive . Unplug that backup and store it far away from any internet connection . If you do update Sykpe by mistake , restore the iPad from the backup . It wo n't keep Skype from updating , but it will preserve your ability to undo the update .
end question
start question
Does Apple 's World Travel Adapter Kit work in India ?
The adapter shown below , in Apple 's World Travel Adapter Kit , will work in India . <URL>
Select <URL> instead of a city . ( Strictly <URL> no longer exists . )
Yes . Per default , it will be indexed . You can opt-out any location in ... System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Spotlight & #x 2192 ; Privacy If you add and remove a location in the privacy tab , it will be re-indexed . Also see Apple 's support document <URL> .
F3 , like the previous poster said , is a Windows convention . Cmd + F is how all applications within OS X do a " Find " . However , you can re-map your Windows favorites to OS X with no problem . If you want to make F3 = " Find Next " in Google Chrome , you can set that up yourself . Go to [ System Preferences ] -- > [ Keyboard ] -- > [ Shortcuts ] <URL> Select App Shortcuts and then click the " plus sign " to add a new one . You will get a dialog box like the one below <URL> Select your Application that you want to create the shortcut for , in this case Google Chrome . Now , here is the most important part : Type the name of the menu command exactly as you see it . Go to the menu bar at the top of the screen and select the command from one of the menu drop downs . In this case , it 's " Find Next " <URL> Enter that into your new Shortcut and assign the key you want , in this case F3 . It should look like this : <URL> Click " Add " and you should see it show up as an new Shortcut . Head over to Chrome and you will see that " Find Next " is now mapped to F3
The adapter shown below , in Apple 's World Travel Adapter Kit , will work in India . <URL>
The server admin tools and associated documentation will walk you through how this works on Mac OS X . There are even worksheets that help you work through the myriad possibilities before you set up OS X Server . It depends on how the server was " set up " so perhaps you can find out whether yours expects to control the user accounts and have the clients control themselves with a local policy file pointing to the server or if the server expects to set up the mac clients as well . Hit the books and do know you can ask more specific questions later of one specific item is holding you up . I prefer using <URL> until I 'm comfortable with the specifics for each site ...
To enable a retina rendered Eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist using your favorite text editor . Just above Place this : Then , make a copy of the app so that OSX will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
The answer can go both ways . The " metal " part , which you use to connect the iPhone with can get damaged if you use it without the plastic adapter piece . However , I 've been using myself that same construction over 6 months now and everything is still fine . My answer : If you dare to risk it , just try it :) But do n't look sad if the metal bends .
Try www.irepair.in also avl @ Hyderabad . Original screen replacement costs approx 5k . Apple will replace the product if it 's out of warranty for 9.2 k.
You can use the current version with other hardware , but it is n't trivial . The LED Cinema Display connects to Macs using a Mini DisplayPort , which is n't popular on non-Apple hardware . However , you can get a converter like <URL> that lets you use the monitor with an HDMI connection . So , if the other machine has an HDMI out you could use that . I 'm sure you can also find converters to use with VGA or DVI outputs . The next version of the display will ( almost certainly ) use ThunderBolt instead of Mini DisplayPort . The physical connector is the same , but the data that travels over the cable is very different . These converters may or may not work with ThunderBolt ; we 'll have to wait for the product to come out and for someone to test .
The Apple TV functionality is almost entirely tied to your Apple ID . I believe the Apple ID " nationality " is tied to the billing address and/or credit card on file . If the address is Canadian , you 'll have access to the Canadian iTunes and App stores , if it 's Norwegian , you 'll get the Norwegian stores . You can <URL> , but switching back and forth between two countries seems to be problematic ( you may only get access to the content from one country at a time , and it requires two billing addresses , or two iTunes accounts ) . Apple has a few useful articles you may want to look at , including the <URL> , the <URL> ( which allows you to re-download purchased content on a Mac or iOS device ) and <URL> . From the looks of it , the content and options available in the Canadian store is superior to that of the Norwegian store ( e.g. Norway does n't have any TV shows ) , so if it 's logistically feasible for you , it may be worthwhile to set up your iTunes account with a Canadian address and credit card ( or just buy a lot of iTunes credit in Canada ) .
The video out on MacBook Pro uses a Displayport / Thunderbolt port . To hook up to a VGA or DVI cable , you need an adapter . Alternatively you could buy a cable which has Displayport on one end and DVI or VGA on the other . The adapters do n't come as standard so you 'll need to buy one in an Apple store , online or use a third-party cable .
Mac OS X should detect the supported resolutions when you connect the display . Your problem might indeed be related to the adapter and cable you are using . According to the HDMI 1.4 spec , standard HDMI cables only support resolutions up to 1080i . I suggest you use the DisplayPort or DVI port on your monitor instead , and buy the appropriate adapter for one of those .
I have the same MBP . It only has a single displayport/thunderbolt output , which can drive a single monitor . The only way for it to drive multiple external displays is to use a daisy chained Thunderbolt display , or an adapter that drives multiple displays from a single input ( Matrox makes one ) or possibly a usb driven adapter .
This can be done by imitating the folder structure of a camera 's memory card . First , find a flash drive that 's compatible with the Camera Connection Kit ( i.e. does n't draw more than 100 mA ) . Create a directory in the root of the USB drive named . Inside create a directory that has exactly 8 characters . Put your picture/video files inside this directory , ensuring that they have an 8.3 pattern filename ( e.g. ) . You 'll end up with a directory structure that looks like this : USB drive root - \ DCIM - \ FAKECAM1 - \ pict0001.jpg - \ pict0002.jpg ...
The Trim Enabler patches the following Kext-File which checks if the ssd is a 3rd-party or Apple Branded SSD : you can also enable trim manually by looking for all ' Apple ' occurrences in the file and patching them in a hex-editor or via terminal :
Unfortunately no . I am running a setup with a 2016 MacBook Pro , the Thunderbolt 3 to Thunderbolt 2 adapter and a 2013 iMac 27 " .
I have a Magic Mouse and a Wireless keyboard , and I use rechargeable batteries . I charge them once a month , but I 'm sure they 'll last at least one more . All the recent Apple wireless ( Bluetooth ) products are very smart about power usage and it really does n't matter wether you turn them off or leave them on . I turn them off only when transporting them in my bag . Note that the battery percentage reported for bluetooth devices is not accurate . It 's based on the voltage of the cell , and since it 's different in the Alkaline ( 1.5 V ) and the Ni-MH rechargeable ( 1.3 V ) batteries , it 's virtually impossible to distinguish between the two . Not to mention the discharge curve of both . Changes in 10.6.7 made it more accurate for devices , running on rechargeable batteries - It now treats charge around 1.3 V for 100 % .
According to this footnote on an Apple <URL> : iPad models are unlocked and may support LTE networks outside the country of purchase when using a valid SIM from a supported carrier . Contact your carrier for more details . Based on this information , your iPad should work on international networks using a local SIM , with the caveat that the local network provides data service in the bands that your iPad supports . The AT&amp;T and Verizon models support different bands , as noted on <URL> : Model A1459 * GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 4 and 17 ) Model A1460 * CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 , 13 , 25 ) The iPad Mini supports similar bands .
It 's not normal , but a known issue . The problem appears each time your MacBook Pro switches to a Discrete Graphics Card . There are a couple of things you could try , as a temporarily fix : Turn Off the Automatic Graphics Switching in System Preferences / Energy Saver , Reboot , and then turn it On again . This will make the Discrete Card to be initialized correctly . This fix will work , though , until your next reboot . Use <URL> to force the use of the Integrated Card only . Some users got rid of it just by Rebooting , Repairing Permissions , Upgrading to the newest version or Reinstalling , though .
end question
start question
Lion Server wireless filesharing for iPad , what are the file type limitations ?
There does n't appear to be any file-type limitation . WebDAV file sharing is enabled in the new Server.app under the File Sharing Service . Click the share you want , and then check " Share with iOS Devices ( WebDAV ) . " There is n't anything specific about file types , and Server.app seems to treat WebDAV as just another file-sharing protocol .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
You can change this setting later at any time . It does n't affect the AppStore . The region setting will affect the availability of certain features which are n't available in all regions yet such as Apple Pay and Apple News . Apple News is only available if you set your region to Australia , UK or US . Apple Pay is additionally available in Canada .
I recommend <URL> which can recover a very wide variety of <URL> . Even if you do n't see the file type listed , ProSoft maybe able to help you recover the data . I once had a client delete a their QuickBook 's for Mac data file . It was a new version of QuickBooks with a radically different file format from prior versions . The current Data Rescue did n't recover the data ; however , ProSoft was able to provide a new file definition and all of the data was recovered . There are separate Mac and PC versions of Data Rescue . I have used both with good results , but I have far more experience with the Mac version . I find $ 99 for Data Rescue to be a very fair price , however , if you are only needing to recover image files from digital cameras , checkout ProSoft 's <URL> for $ 20 . I believe Image Rescue comes with both Mac and PC licenses .
I jailbroke my iPhone 4 few weeks ago , specifically for the MyFi , which allows you to tether your 3G connection to your other WiFi-enabled devices ( iPad , laptop , etc ) , without paying $ 20 to AT&amp;T every month and being limited by 2Gb of data . MyFi is $ 19.99 , but you pay it once and enjoy free tethering after that , especially if you kept your $ 30 unlimited data plan ( I did ) . Initially beyond that I saw very little reason to use other apps from Cydia store , but now I slowly changing my mind , since I found few real gems . SBSettings - gives you quick panel to toggle WiFi , Bluetooth , 3G and few other functions . This is extremely handy , especially when you 're trying to preserve your battery ( long day on the conference or something ) and you do n't want to dive into Settings each time you want to turn WiFi on or off . SBSettings is free Notified Pro - this is notification management done right . Notifications have horrible usability in iOS and this app ( $ 4.00 for Pro version , but I think they have the light one for free as well ) fixes it by introducing notifications list similar to one Android has , which you can activate from status bar or via other customized shortcuts Frash - which is Flash for iPhone , right in your mobile Safari . Frankly I have n't use it for anything serious yet ( and it does n't support my favorite Flash game <URL> ) , but it 's a good app to wow your friends , since everyone knows that there 's no Flash on the iPhone and you can always prove people wrong . My favorite app IntelliScreen - it 's a paid app as well , but it 's extremely handy . It gives you a highly customizable lock screen very similar to Windows Mobile 's Today screen , so you can look at your calendar , emails , SMS and other info without even unlocking your phone . Really , really handy . One other thing that I did n't try personally yet , but going to soon is sync with your PC or Mac over WiFi . I hate to do it over a cable . Now , on the bad side : You have to be more careful and knowledgeable about stuff you 're installing . That includes both apps ( which are , in general , more buggy and may conflict with each other or with iOS ) and stuff like official Apple iOS updates that you ca n't install unless you know that there 's a jailbreak for them . Cydia store ( and others like RockYou app store ) are less informative than AppStore and quite often it 's hard to figure out what certain app does Payment ( while they allow multiple ways including AMazon payments and PayPal ) is usually much more painful Apps quite often are more expensive ( think $ 4.99 - $ 9.99 range ) , but on the bright side they worth it
There are a variety of iOS icon templates available for free on the web -- the best I 've seen so far is from <URL> -- that will offer up this information ( and possibly even obviate the need to know entirely ) . There is even a ( very ) short discussion about the corner radii . A quick search for will return a lot of similar results .
Whenever I hear a song and I want to know the name of it , I use <URL> on my iphone . So far it has identified all of the songs I 've searched . Even if for some reason I do n't have network access , it will store the search and you can send it to their servers once connectivity is restored . By the way , SoundHound and Midomi are the same thing . Midomi changed its name to SoundHound .
Per <URL> , AirPlay makes use of a number of ports : ╔ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╗ ║ Port ║ TCP/UDP ║ Name ║ ╠ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╣ ║ 80 ║ TCP ║ Hypertext Transfer Protocol ( HTTP ) ║ ║ 443 ║ TCP ║ Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL , or " HTTPS " ) ║ ║ 554 ║ TCP/UDP ║ Real Time Streaming Protocol ( RTSP ) ║ ║ 3689 ║ TCP ║ Digital Audio Access Protocol ( DAAP ) ║ ║ 5353 ║ TCP ║ Multicast DNS ( MDNS ) ║ ╚ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╝
In quality terms , HDMI is identical to DVI , but some TVs see DVI as a " computer input " and HDMI as a " media input " , and may give you slightly different options . I 'd have a quick search online to see if anyone 's used your model TV with a Mac Mini , just to make sure . By the way , unless you 're running it a great distance , there 's no advantage whatsoever to an expensive HDMI cable . The cheapest one you can buy is as good as any other !
If you 're just looking for a quick signal strength number , option-click on the AirPort icon in the menu bar . Under the connected network you will see several pieces of information : RSSI is your signal strengh in dB . Higher ( closer to 0 ) is better . If you 're looking for noise or the signal strength for multiple access points , I suggest checking out <URL> : <URL>
I just ported MenuMeters for El Capitan , please go to <URL> .
<URL> is the best one out there today . By far . On the iPad itself , only if you jailbreak . Then get <URL> .
\ = Option ⌥ + Shift ⇧ + : { = Option ⌥ + ( } = Option ⌥ + ) You can display the layout in the Preferences ( Language &amp; Text - Input Sources - Show Input Sources in Menu bar ) .
I believe the files are stored in / Library/Server/ProfileManager / Data/FileStore but are not stored as IPA files .
You will need an app to get this working properly , the nice new features in Mavericks are still essentially limited to traditionally connected displays via cables ( DisplayPort/HDMI/Thunderbolt ) , rather than wireless connections . There are many you can try , but <URL> . Note that because the 2nd screen will be transferred over Wifi , you need to ensure that the iPad has a solid connection to the same LAN as your main Mac - being close to your Mac might be no good if they are both a distance away from the router ... As such , any usage of the iPad 2nd screen that requires fast refresh of window contents might not perform in any way like a proper monitor would , but it should be great for normal non video/gaming OS X apps .
This is default behavior and is not an issue with jailbreaking . Even my new iPad 2 straight out the box does this on 4.3 . I see this as a bug and hope Apple fixes this . The fastest and simplest iPad app that I 've found that I like for rotating , cropping and flipping is called Crop Suey HD . UPDATE : It appears as though iOS 5 has finally fixed this annoying bug . And the even better news is that they are now throwing in photo editing tools right in the photo viewer app ; including the option to rotate .
Are you talking about a <URL> ? To my knowledge , they are predominantly single ear because they are meant to substitute putting a phone up to your ear . However , there does exist bluetooth stereo headsets that can handle music and make calls using their built in microphone . They are n't nearly as compact however , and likely not as battery efficient . Take a look at the <URL> if that is what you are in the market for . Do give the guys at the store a break when you return the product . You are a rarity to request a stereo headset as 99 % sold in stores today are single ear piece units .
You can create two folder actions , one for images : one for videos : Both should be setup to receive files from Downloads folder . The first step filters images and videos files . The second step moves those files in the appropriate folder . Be sure that folder action is attached to your directory ( right click on directory , ) . To let Automator wait for the download to complete , you can add a step , before the step , similar to this :
I believe the lack of accessories may be due to the power requirements of the iPad . The iPad comes with a 10 watt charger while most iPhone chargers are only 1 watt . According to this article lower wattage chargers will work , they will just be slower . <URL>
Please refer to the answer at <URL> . The last part of that post will use to mount a user privileged only folder . See below . The whole instruction set is on the blog post referenced or just look at both posts . If someone wants me to duplicate that other post here let me know . Getting in is one thing . Now you have to mount the folder you want to use . Unfortunately you ca n't use a symlink inside of a chroot jail . This is where <URL> is your best friend . I do n't know why I 've never seen fit to install this before . After installation just issue the following commands . You might have to restart . Now with an empty folder created in you can to a folder outside of the chroot jail . For example So far this seems to work here .
end question
start question
Lowest volume is still too loud -- how can I make it even lower ?
Pressing ShiftOptionVolume Up/Volume Down allows you to adjust in quarter-box increments . You can also click the volume icon in the menu bar and fine-tune with the slider , or open the Sound panel in System Preferences and get a bigger slider there , which would allow for finer control .
As far as I can tell , the Mac maintains two volume settings : one with headphones connected and another without headphones connected . If the volume is turned down with headphones connected , it should save that setting the next time headphones are connected . That said , if your concern is that the " blip " is too loud , it can be disabled in System Preferences ; under " , deselect .
Nah . Electricity is PULLED to devices that use it , not PUSHED from the plug . The phone is smart enough to stop pulling when its battery is full . EDIT : However , an adapter can provide incorrect voltage for a device . Do n't take what I said there and wire your iphone power adapter to a 220 source , for instance . You can OVERDRIVE a device with too many volts , but you ca n't send it " too much " of the right voltage , because the amperage is a function of the device 's draw . I know I just said that assuming that you understand the difference between volts and amps , but there it is ; they 're different .
Actually , the best way is to use this website . <URL> , it is far more easier and better than other ways .
My presumption is that when you burned the DVD using iMovie - it was encoded within a VIDEO_TS folder and you will need some software to move the video and sound files ( which are hidden and obscured on the filesystem ) back into a format that can be played on your Mac and/or burned back to a fresh optical drive . Depending on the version of software that wrote the DVD to disc , you might be able to locate the raw video files ( or find them on a backup ) . Barring that , using Disk Utility to simply clone the volume onto a new drive is n't a good choice , but I 've had great luck with programs like the little app factory 's <URL> .
Unlike Chrome , Safari does n't seems to use a webpage for the top sites but rather another programmatic view . As you might have seen , the webinspector does n't work on this page .
To fix this problem , I got my iPad charger ( which was disconnected from any power source such as a wall outlet ) , and plugged it into my iPhone , and unplugged it twice . This process fixed the iPhone .
The mode is referred to as " copy mode " and as long as you 're running 1.5 or higher you can add : to your file and tmux will automatically enter and exit copy mode when you use the scroll wheel on your mouse . As a bonus , this option allows you to select the tmux pane with your mouse :
The control center works ( swipe up from bottom of screen and slide volume slider as desired ) . In iOS 9 at least , you can also go Settings - > Sounds and under the Ringer and Alerts section , turn off " Change with Buttons " , then use the volume buttons on the side of the phone to adjust the media volume . You can leave this option off to always have media volume control with the hardware buttons if you are OK with the ringer volume being just off or on at a preset level using the silent toggle switch on the side of the phone .
Pressing ShiftOptionVolume Up/Volume Down allows you to adjust in quarter-box increments . You can also click the volume icon in the menu bar and fine-tune with the slider , or open the Sound panel in System Preferences and get a bigger slider there , which would allow for finer control .
Without resorting to using an audio program to normalize the tracks ( which you might eventually have to do if you want to make it " the right way ™ " ) , you can select the track ( s ) you want to lower in iTunes and CMD + i to " get info " , go to the Options tab and manually reduce the track 's volume . You can have multiple track selections and the adjustment will apply to all the selected tracks . I am not 101 % sure if this is carried over the iPhone/iPad ( although it should ) . If that 's not the case , you will need an Audio Editor like <URL> ( there might be others , I happen to have that one and it 's very good , but might be overkill for what you need ) . In your favorite editor , open the mp3 ( or whatever format you have ) and find the Audio Effect usually called Normalize and lower the dBs : If you have to modify a lot of tracks , Amadeus Pro has a nice Batch Processor which is some sort of " automator " home made . The powerful batch processor allows you not only to convert large numbers of files between any of the supported formats , but you can also instruct Amadeus Pro to apply any sequence of sound effects . See how I have added a Normalize − 15dB to the " actions " . : note : I do n't work for HairerSoft or Amadeus . There might be other editors ( some freeware ) that do the same thing , but the idea is the same . I know this one does it and excellently because I have it . :)
What you can do is use the laptop on a solid underground . Especially if you use a pillow ( which where you laptop completely sink in ) , the pillow is covering the laptop 's ventilation holes . And it 's even stated in <URL> : Do not push objects into the ventilation openings . The exhaust is the screen hinge , but the intake is most likely all the other cracks and holes in the case . And if the laptop ca n't take enough fresh air ( since you 're covering most of the cracks and holes with your pillow/blanket/lap ) , the fans have to work very hard to get all the hot air out . Try to lift up your Mac as you 're sitting on your bed , does that improve the activity of the fans ? But no worries , you 're laptop wo n't suffer from the heating . And if it get 's too hot , it will shut itself down ( to prevent damage ) , so then you 'll know you 've gone too far :) Another thing what makes your Mac blow like a turbine is playing flash-files or converting stuff , but I guess you 're not doing that since you have n't got any high CPU or HDD activity .
If you save the Apple Script as an application , then go to System Preferences - > Users - > Login Items , you can add the application there , and it will run on login .
The workaround I found so far is to use <URL> as an intermediate filter between PC output and the X-Fi . This allows to control volume from Mac OSX at the price of some sound processing . I can not comment yet on sound quality but on first auditions it seems to sound better than setting the volume to 1/100 in Songbird ( my FLAC player ) .
I have discovered that 100 % of the times that this happened to me , it was because I either had : A USB ( or Firewire ) peripheral connected that was pooling the bus and for some mysterious reason caused your behavior . I accidentally moved the mouse ( or the table where both mouse/key lie ) ; small vibrations caused the mouse to register movement and that was enough to wake the box . I do n't know if this is your case , but whenever you 're in the " it wakes up ! " cycle , try to disconnect everything and use the keyboard shortcut with surgeon precision and softness and see if it changes . Additionally you might want con check the Console Output of the logs to see if there 's an error going on while your invoke your sleep screen shortcut .
And the correct answer is : No . Encryption only affects the OS X volume . Booting into Boot Camp , the necessary password prompt to allow decryption is bypassed entirely . The volume becomes an opaque blob to anything but a running OS X system .
As far as I can tell , Final Cut Studio 2 will run on Lion , but will not install on Lion . Apparently , the installer program requires Rosetta , but the software itself does not . So yes , it should work , if it never needs reinstallation , but if it does , you 're stuck . Proceed with caution . Sources : <URL> personal experimentation
The steps seem strange , but first you must create your appleid using a non Apple address ( note that if you already have an @icloud , @mac , or @me email address that email address is already an Apple ID ) Once your Apple ID has been created , on the device go to Settings > iCloud and flip the mail switch on , you will be prompted there to create your @icloud . com email address . <URL>
It works pretty much as you describe Windows . If you want a better key combo to access the menu bar , you can customize it under . Then type to select which menu you want , hit enter , then type to select the menu item . Note that most menu items have keyboard shortcuts . These are written next to the menu item , often a single character preceded by the CMD key .
Mac OS X has no explicit option for users to power down external hard disk drives . This capability is managed by Mac OS X 's lower level <URL> . Regrettably , not all external hard disk drives offer energy saving features . However , Western Digital ( WD ) claim that <URL> . It is likely something is accessing your external hard disk drive . It only requires a tiny read or write to cause the disk to stay active . Maybe a log file being written to or back up software that never stops . Does the drive spin down when you unmount it in the Finder ? If so , consider scripting the mounting and unmounting of the drive as part of your back up routine .
end question
start question
How Do You Label The 3D Axis in Grapher ?
It appears as though it 's impossible to actually label them in 3D view . Although this probably was n't the answer you were looking for , there is a workaround . The reason you ca n't actually label the graphs : Labels can not easily be added to 3D graphs because the text would have to be rotated through three dimensions with the graph itself ( Apple explained this as difficult to write the code for ) . So , a workaround for this : Save as a pdf Open the graph and then copy it . Paste into a word document Add any text where you need it with text boxes , label axis . If you 'd like to see the original copy of the above information , you can find it <URL> .
In the old days , changing the date , deleting the preferences , or installing the trial software in a different path did the trick , but , nowadays , it seems rather unlikely that there 's such an easy way . Trial software may call home to check the database for a combination of your MAC address and your email , your IP , both , create an invisible file with a who-knows-which-name or a million different things . I mean , if there was an easy way to do so , you wont need the full version , right ? Someone might find a way , of course . But it will probably be for a specific program , not a generic way for all trial software . EDIT : Just noticed that I 'm not answering your question . Indeed , installed and used applications will leave other files , such as Preferences , stored either in your user 's preferences folder ( ~ / Library/Preferences ) or in the System-Wide preferences folder ( / Library/Preferences / ) , or Application Support Files ( which will be , again , in your user 's library folder or in the root one ) . There could be a lot more , of course . If you want to get rid of them , making a search , with Spotlight or Finder , should show them all .
You can control whether pressing the power button should put your mac to sleep or present a dialog with options ( sleep/restart/shut-down ) using the command . The following : will put it to sleep right away ( presumably your current setting ) and changing to will present you with the dialog . Pay attention to the fact that it 's not a per-user setting , and changes the behaviour for all users . Something to keep in mind if you share the device with others . From the man page ( explore it for other options ) : All changes made through pmset are saved in a persistent preferences file ( per-system , not per-user ) at / Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration / com.apple.PowerManagement.plist
This still is possible via a work around . The right-click contextual menu does not contain an option Make Alias for the Originals/Masters directories , but it does for subdirectories . The option Make Alias always shows in the menubar under File & #x 2192 ; Make Alias but is greyed out for the Originals/Masters directories . Workaround Go to a subdirectory of Originals/Master in Finder . Create your alias , & #x 2318 ; + L. Open the Info of the created alias folder , & #x 2318 ; + I. Click the button Select new Original Press & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G to enter a custom path . Enter your path , e.g. Rename the Alias folder .
Typing works for me on Lion . You can substitute for any of the preference panes in the folder . This also switches to the correct pane even if System Preferences is already open .
I frequently reinstall MacPorts ( e.g. , when there 's a new major version of Xcode ) so I keep a file with a list of my essential ports for easy reinstalling . Here 's my list of essential software that does n't come with OS X . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Realistically , you need an Intel Mac , the cheapest possible one will do , and access to at least 1 to 3 iOS devices . One device for the current OS release , one device running the OS release of the oldest OS you plan on supporting , and perhaps one dedicated test device for doing beta OS app testing . If you want to do Universal apps , at least 1 iPad and one non-iPad , as there are many things that ca n't be fully tested on the iOS Simulator . Going forward , a Mac that can run Lion may end up being required to keep up with the latest SDK frameworks , codesigning tools and app submission tools . You need to register any iOS devices that you want to use for app testing . They do n't need to belong to you or your company . Multiple developers can register the same shared devices . You do n't need to " register " any Macs . You do need to create and/or copy private keys and certificates to each Mac that you want to use for device testing development or app store submission . Unrealistically , you could get by with none . No devices or owned Macs are required . ( There are online tools that will pretty much construct an entire native app Xcode project . ) Have a friend or consultant with a Mac get your certificates and do the final codesigning ; and let your customers be your beta testers . But the latter could easily lead to apps that get rejected or that crash for most of your customers . And the non-Mac development tools all have various ( some severe ) deficiencies .
I have n't tried this solution my self - yet , but found this thread : <URL> You should consider using <URL> , which precisely allows you to run scripts in response to many system events such as network changes , filesystem activity , application launching , etc. . As I could n't find any sensible documentation , I also wrote a small blog post on <URL> .
Ok , it turns out that if you use AirDrop to send the Playground book to yourself , iOS offers to open it in the Swift Playgrounds app .
You can and you ca n't at the same time . Safari will load the PDF automatically and display it but it will offer a " Open In " button where you can send the PDF to another application if it is configured by the developer to accept PDFs ( eg . iBooks , GoodReader , etc. ) At present there is no way to direct it directly to another application unless that application will take a URL you could copy and paste .
Maybe <URL> helps you out ? Choose Format > Font > Capitalization and choose an option from the submenu . Choose Small Caps to change the text to smaller capitals with larger capitals for uppercase letters
Use the built-in CUPS web interface to get detailed printer information : <URL>
The command is just talk . It 's disabled in OSX by default . See the comment at the end . eg . It will then open a split screen and ping the other person to chat to you . They have to be logged into your computer at the same time though . Given that most Macs are single-user , this is unlikely , but possible . Have a friend connect in via SSH or screen-sharing and give it a go . write allows you to write straight onto the other users console . By default though users have it disabled . You can turn it on with ' mesg y ' . Then type away to irritate the other user . These are pretty old unix commands . Been around on linux/UNIX for years and years . The man pages will help you too : You can test this on one computer by creating a different ID and opening up Terminal with two windows . In the first window log back into your box with the other ID : Then write to the main users Terminal : write mynormaluser eg : You 'll see the text appear in window 2 of the Terminal To get talk to work on OSX you need to enable it first . As root run this : or , as a super user :
On keyboard , press the " 123 " button to bring up numbers . From here press " # + = " to bring up more characters . ~ is the 4th from the left , second row . Answered on an iPhone :D
It worked fine . In fact I updated to 10.10 successfully in safe boot .
you can use KeyRemap4MacBook <URL> you can find the included prepared settings list at this address : <URL> as you can see there is the setting for Fn Key
Using , you can show the extended metadata of files : However , the quickest way to get labelled and unlabelled files is with an attribute search using :
The Knowledgebase article <URL> contains some general guidelines and illustrates using System Profiler ( System Information in Lion ) to provide information about the output ( according to specifications ) of a Macs USB ports . If you want to test the real world voltage output of a given USB port on an individual Macintosh at a given load you will have to use a test device . ( <URL> )
It seems that apps that the only apps that are directly removable from Launchpad have to be installed through the App Store . For every other app , you can simply do it the old fashioned way : Open programs Select ' open in finder ' Delete the app that you want to delete Many people are using folders to reduce clutter of apps shown in Launchpad . ( while eagerly awaiting either an update or some tools to manage Launchpad layouts . )
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
end question
start question
iTunes : subscribe to a podcast without downloading it ?
Go to the podcast page in your iTunes Library by selecting it in the menu bar , then click the gear next to the title , then , under " This Computer " , select Download Episodes > Off
Send Apple a support email to the iTunes Store ( e.g. by using <URL> ) . Tell them what happened and they should allow you to redownload all of your old purchases . That 's what they did for me . You wo n't be able to redownload content that has changed on the store . It seems as though some songs get removed and then readded so their IDs wo n't match the same ones you purchased . I was able to redownload about 95 % of my purchases . Regardless of whether or not you agree with their policy of not allowing you to redownload purchased content ; please do n't abuse their generosity , and try to back it up yourself next time .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
This appears to have been removed . There 's no mention of it that I can find in Apple 's support documentation or iPhoto help ( ⌘ ? ) and the only reference to subscribing that I can find is subscribing to a Shared Photo Stream . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this here : <URL>
No . Home Sharing uses mDNS ( Bonjour ) to advertise . Without a running iTunes instance for the share , it wo n't be available . Your NAS may have a DNLA server built-in which could make the iTunes library on it available though .
It appears that this functionality has been removed . There used to be a sidebar box with the ability to contact Apple regarding adding your work to any of the download lists on Apple.com . However , this box no longer appears on the page . Also , the linked page from the old submit link in the box above no longer appears to be functional : <URL> This seems to match the fact that no new calendars have been uploaded for years .
I suggest searching for podcasts on the iTunes web interface from within mobile Safari . Both Bing and Google accept a site parameter that will allow you to filter for a specific site . In thie case , you could search for a podcast and add the site : itunes.apple.com parameter at the end . Like this : this week in tech site : itunes.apple.com The search results in Safari should be easier to read . Each link should open in the iTunes app in your iPhone . Hope this helps .
No . Every field is part of the songs <URL> ( or meta tag ) and only one field can exist at any given time . A song can only have one track name , one genre , one composer , one album title , and so on : Whether you set the name of the song , for example , to English , or some other language , it does n't matter as it would require two distinct fields for one ID3 entry , and that is not supported in the metadata container . This is not a limitation of iTunes , but of the songs container .
Yes , it is possible however Apple seems to have gone to great lengths to try to prevent you from doing this . Especially if you meant without the use of any sort of app on the PC at all , as if it were simply a disk drive in explorer . That , I believe , is not possilble/practical without first jailbreaking your phone . If you do not have iOS 8 and you have not jailbroken your phone , I would suggest that you do while you still are able to and while it is a simple " one-button " process . While Pangu recently released a jailbreak for iOS 8 , it is reportedly still a bit buggy so I would wait a bit if you have iOS 8 . You would jailbreak your iPhone by downloading the pangu app on your PC from <URL> However , if you do n't want to jailbreak but you do n't want to use iTunes , there are a number of different " replacements " for iTunes . Many people even go so far as to completely remove iTunes from their system as well . Media Monkey is a rather full-featured replacement for iTunes that can do a number of things that iTunes can or will not . I personally liked MM when I was using it a year or two ago . They support Android as well . You can download it at <URL> Another option is called iFunbox . They recently revamped their software but luckily they deigned to keep the older version , calling it iFunbox classic . Here 's a quote from their website about it . " With iFunBox Classic included , you can still manage files on your iDevice with no jailbreak needed . Here 's some basic features : • Safe ipa package installation and easy access to files and resources in app sandbox . Learn More • Use your device as portable USB disk with hi-speed transmission beyond 20MB/s on iPhone and iPad . • Import and export songs , videos , photos and ringtones with iFunBox quick toolbox . You can find iFunbox at <URL> Hope this helps .
You can use the " File Sharing " feature of various apps THROUGH iTunes , but without having to actually SYNC with iTunes . Install the free CineXPlayer app . This will allow you to play a much broader range of videos . Then plug your ipad into any computer with iTunes installed . iTunes will recognize the device , and let you browse it WITHOUT syncing it . If you go to the " Apps " tab inside the device 's pages in iTunes , you 'll see CineXPlayer listed below , in " File Sharing " . Select CineXPlayer and drag movies to the " Documents " pane . Ta da !
I was looking for this also and stumbled on a solution . In the podcast playlist , tap on the UNPLAYED or ALL toggle to reverse the sort order of the feed . So you would tap it once to sort episodes from oldest to newest , then episodes will play from the top of the feed i.e. Oldest to newest <URL>
If the option " Copy files to the iTunes Music folder when adding to library " is activated , iTunes makes a copy . The default storing location is : Windows 7 : Windows Vista : Windows XP and 2000 : MAC OS X :
Right-Click on the file in iTunes , then select " Show in Finder " There you have your Podcast-File . You can copy it on your USB-Drive or wherever you want !
Get an iPhone case that provides backup power . You can maneuver iPhone completely hands-free by saying " Hey Siri " if you are willing to keep your phone plugged in to a portable USB battery while you walk around . iOS 8 has " Hey Siri " built-in : Settings > General > Siri > " Hey Siri " > Enabled The rub : " Hey Siri " only listens when phone is plugged in to power . The fix : Bring a portable USB backup battery and keep your phone plugged in ! Some protective iPhone cases also have built-in batteries you can use to charge your iPhone when the time comes . I imagine this would be the most convenient way to accomplish what you would like to do without having to carry extra items . I asked around the Genius Bar at an Apple Store in Chicago why they suppose such a feature would have such a restriction , and the general consensus suggested was that people in close proximity would likely set off each other 's phones . My personal suspicion is that constantly polling in the background might be costly in terms both of battery life as well as network traffic , and most people plug in where WiFi is much more likely to be available . I figured Siri would recognize our voices by now ! =)
If you email the epub file to yourself , opening the attachment in iBooks will be an option in iOS Mail .
The iPod nano and classic iPods get loaded a custom firmware that could be downloaded from the internet and possibly loaded with a tool other than iTunes , but on a PC you could easily use whatever disk tool you want to erase the drive by reformatting it . Since this would render the device unbootable , you will not want to sell it to a user that 's not familiar with why it 's not working , so the elegant solution would be to rent another computer with iTunes and restore it . Apple 's retail stores usually will even loan you a cable to restore your device from any of the display Macs . iTunes on a new computer would want to erase all the content anyhow - so going another step to wipe and restore the device will leave a clean slate and you might even be able to sync some demo content to the device depending on how iTunes is set up in the store you visit .
I actually wrote an article on this . The relevant part : When you end your iTunes Match sub , you can only access songs you 've downloaded , they will not be available to download after the sub ends . You can continue to play the songs that exist on your device . Your iTunes Match library will only be stored online for 30 days after you cancel . <URL>
Your Macbook can have as much as 3GB of RAM . Check it first . Buy an Optical Disk Drive to HDD adaptor on ebay ( 9.5 mm PATA to SATA variant ) . Put you HDD there . Crucial is good . 64GB is enough for me , SATA150 and probably you . Small read/writes are same between different sizes and you will not get those faster linear RW anyway -- why pay more when you can have platters to store those big files ? Still it 's wiser to sell your Macbook as is and buy anything unibody ( used ) for a bit more -- you 'll get better graphics to help with flash ( I have such a notebook and know how pathetically slow it becomes when flash is on ) . And then max that unibody Macbook with RAM ( which is DDR3 and cheaper ) and SSD .
MacBooks are designed for close and go operation and you 're not doing the system or hardware any harm by following the practice . That being said , there have been past issues with MacBooks not going to sleep properly when the lid is closed -- the indicator being that the Mac is hot to the touch and the battery level is lower than you would expect when you remove it from your bag . There are some reports of wake from sleep issues , generally caused by a " stuck " process . Assuming you have adequate RAM , the slowdown in your startup process is most likely caused by applications and processes being loaded at startup . The startup on my own MacBook Pro ( Mid 2007 model ) is measured in minutes as various mission critical utilities -- QuickSilver , TextExpander , Growl , etc. -- load and populate the menubar If you login to an alternate ( preferably clean , stock ) user account is the startup process faster ? To get a better idea about what you 're loading at startup , navigate to System Preferences and open the Users and Groups pane . ( Note : Users and Groups is titled Accounts on some systems . ) Select your user account from the panel on the left , then open the Login Items tab . This screen grab is from a MacBook Air that runs only a subset of the login items of my personal MacBook Pro . If Applications that you do n't need are running , you can remove them . Do this with caution , because sometimes there are login items necessary for other software to run as expected . Beyond that , you might want use <URL> to discover what 's running on your Mac . Run it right after a system startup . If you amend your question to include a <URL> of your login items and/or the running processes , we may be able to help you further .
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
end question
start question
How can I access my iCloud files on my Mac ?
The iCloud files are cached on your Mac , so you can access them even when you have no internet connection . They are stored in . To make it even more accessible , you can add the folder in your sidebar . There you 'll see that each application has it 's own folder with it 's own documents . Files can be added or removed in this window . To make sure you 're working in your iCloud , you can try and delete a file . Your Mac will notify you , you 're deleting the file in iCloud .
You can use <URL> . This solution has an iPhone and Mac ( or Windows ) client and sends a push notification from the Mac app to the iPhone with the information for a call , text , URL , text or an image . The iPhone app then opens the data sent to it by the Mac app . The iPhone app <URL> and the Mac app is free . myPhoneDesktop requires an account to be set up , but it is free .
No , this is currently not possible . Your browsing history is not shared over iCloud and ca n't be viewed on your Mac .
No - the iCloud section of the Settings app only allows for one account on iOS 5 . You can however add as many iCloud accounts to the Mail , Contacts , Calendars as you have time to set up . You will see that you can enable the majority of the services on each subsequent non-main iCloud account . The following items work only on the main account : Backup Documents &amp; Data Photo Stream The following item is exclusive - any one ( but only one ) account can have : Find My iPhone For example , I use one iCloud account as my primary personal account and have a second account for a consulting business . Here is what that non-main account looks like when set up .
Yes you can use logmein <URL> After installing and setting things up you will just need your browser wherever you are .
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
No . This is n't a function of the iPhone OS from Apple . If this is n't a short term need , there might be a jailbreak tweak to turn the OS into a fully functioning router / hotspot , but the hardware is n't designed to extend a network as your use case requires .
If You Have a Time Capsule or an AirPort Extreme Base Station with Shared USB Hard Drive If you have either a Time Capsule ( which is basically an AirPort Extreme Base Station with a built-in 500 GB or 1 TB hard drive ) or an AirPort Extreme Base Station ( AEBS ) with an attached USB hard drive , you can share out the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive and make it accessible via the Internet . To do this : Start the Airport Utility . Select your Time Capsule or AEBS . Make a note of the IP Address shown on the right -- you will need it later . Click Manual Setup . Check your " Connection Sharing " setting under the Internet Tab . The following tutorial is valid if your " Connection Sharing " is to " Share a public IP address " , the normal setup for a home network . You will need to have a static IP address , or use a free dynamic DNS service . If you have a different type of " Connection Sharing , " you probably do n't need a tutorial to set up remote access to your disk ; adapt this one as needed . Click Disks ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click File Sharing . Select ( check ) the " Enable file sharing " checkbox and the " Share disks over Ethernet WAN port " checkbox . It is strongly recommended that you also set Secure Shared Disks to " With base station password " and Guest Access to " Not allowed " ; not making these changes may allow unauthorized users to access your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive . Click Airport ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Base Station . Enter a Base Station Password and verify it in the Verify Password box . Click Advanced ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Port Mapping . Click the plus sign ( + ) to add a new port mapping . In the Public UDP Port ( s ) and Public TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type in a 4-digit port number ( e.g. , 5678 ) that you choose . In the Private IP Address box , type the internal IP address of your Time Capsule or AEBS that you wrote down in step 2 ( for example , 192.168.0.1 ) . In the Private UDP Port ( s ) and Private TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type 548 . Click Continue . In the Description box , type a descriptive name like " Time Capsule File Sharing " or " AEBS File Sharing " . Then , click Done . When you have made all changes , click Update . Your Time Capsule/AEBS will restart . Once it does , you are now ready to connect to the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive via the Internet . To do this when your MBA is away from home : In the Finder , click Go > Connect to Server . Type in the correct domain name or external IP address for your network , plus a colon and the port number you specified in step 11 . For example , " www.myhomedomain.com :5678 " or " 123.123.12.123:5678 " . Click Connect . You will be prompted for your user name and password . The user name can be anything you like ; the password should be the password for the Time Capsule/AEBS which you specified above . Click Connect . Voilà ! You are now connected to your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive from your MBA . You can access files , copy files back and forth between your MBA and the hard drive , delete files , whatever you want , as long as your MBA remains network-connected . The next time you go to connect , it should go even more quickly ( especially if you save your password in your keychain , and if you add your home IP address/domain name to your list of Favorite Servers in the Connect dialog box ) . Note that the Time Capsule/AEBS will appear in the Shared section of your Finder 's sidebar as a server , with the Base Station Name of the Time Capsule/AEBS as the server name . Taken from <URL> Additional Info : I know port forwarding can be a big hassle so I thought I would add that you could also use apple 's built in " Back To My Mac " feature . This way you can access your Time Capsule 's files as well as accessing you home mac files and screen share with your mac over a secure connection . Try this article : <URL>
The default behavior is for iCloud Photo Library not to store full-size versions of your photos on your iPhone and iPad : The theory is that only thumbnails are stored on your iPhone/iPad until you decide to view/edit/share the photo , at which point a device-optimized or full-size version of your photo is downloaded from iCloud . ( Note : I know a full-size copy is downloaded when you edit/share , but it appears that if your iPhone has plenty of space it will download a full-size copy for viewing as well , as opposed to just a device-optimized version . This is likely to avoid having to do a second download later if you decide to share the photo . ) When you start running low on space , iOS will begin pruning less-accessed photos and return to simply thumbnails or device-optimized versions of those . All of this happens automatically in the background and you should n't have to worry about managing space yourself .
These files are stored in / . MobileBackups / and / . DocumentRevisions-V100 / . I am very surprised that your backup is so large - my Backups are only 300MB ! According to the Time Machine preference pane , TM will " keep local snapshots as space permits " . Do you have a lot of spare disk space ? Since these folders are owned by root , to check the size of these folders you 'll need to use sudo , or log in as root user . E.g. the command line commands :
Add it to the Press &amp; Hold character picker You can add it to a letter 's Press &amp; Hold character picker . Navigate to . Backup the file . Append the following to the file ( before the closing ) . Feel free to change the to any character you wish , providing it does not already have Press &amp; Hold keys assigned . If you wish to use a character with an existing Press &amp; Hold set , you can append the to the relevant lines for that character .
I am sorry to say that I am unaware of any apps ( jailbroken or otherwise ) that add keyboard navigation to the iPad . According to <URL> , the following shortcuts do work : ⌘ C Copy selected text ⌘ X Cut selected text ⌘ V Paste ⌘ Z Undo ⌘ shiftZ Redo ⌘ ↑ Go to top of document ⌘ ↓ Go to bottom of document ⌘ ← Go to start of line ⌘ → Go to end of line ⌘ ⌫ Delete to end of line ⌥ ⌫ Delete previous word F1 Make screen dimmer F2 Make screen brighter F7 Skip back one song F8 Play or Pause Music F9 Skip forward one song F10 Mute Volume F11 Decrease Volume F12 Increase Volume ⏏ Show or hide onscreen keyboard
In the find file window , press Command-Shift-G . It 'll ask you what folder to navigate to . Enter " ~ / . ssh " and press return .
I 've managed to get pretty far on my own , so I 'm posting an answer . If someone else has a better way , I 'll be glad to accept their answer . I ran into some gotchas along the way , so I wanted to share those as well . Here are the steps I took . Make sure TextMate is not running on your new Mac . On your old Mac , tar up the TextMate and Avian folders under ~ / Library/Application Support : ( You may or may not have the Avian directory . If not , skip instructions related to that . ) Copy those two tar files to your new Mac and place them under ~ / Library/Application Support , and then extract them : Copy the TextMate . plist files from ~ / Library/Preferences on your old Mac over to the same locations on your new Mac . For me this was the following two files : ( Here is the ' gotcha ' which took me awhile to figure out . ) You need to unquarantine the files you just copied over to your new Mac . Do this ( on your new Mac ) by clearing the extended attribute as follows : The and options to say to handle all files in those directories ( recursive ) and delete the attribute specified . If you get a bunch of permission errors , place in front of the xattr commands . The above appears to have restored the majority of the TextMate " behaviors " from my old Mac to my new Mac . I still had to open up the TextMate - > Preferences menu and do a side-by-side comparison , checking and unchecking boxes for various settings that did not transfer over with the above steps . Update : If you have a . tm_properties file , e.g. , , you 'll also want to copy that over to your new Mac .
The short answer to this is : No . As far as I 'm aware , you ca n't mount your Dropbox account as some sort of remote file share - its synced files are always written to your local disk . That said , you can change the location of the Dropbox folder away from its default of , so if you have a separate internal or external disk you could put the Dropbox folder there . You may encounter problems if Dropbox occasionally ca n't access the detached volume holding its folder , however . See <URL> : Your Dropbox folder must be available when your computer boots and before the Dropbox desktop application starts . Some USB drives , for example , take some time to mount before your computer recognizes them . The Dropbox desktop application could start before such a drive is ready and get confused . You will receive an error and Dropbox will give you the opportunity to relink your Dropbox account or exit if it is unable to find your Dropbox folder .
Short answer : no . The i7 in the new 2011 Server model does n't support anything less than pretty much the original OS . Sorry dude . I wanted to do the exact same thing .
Yes , at : ~ / Library/Preferences/com . apple.LaunchServices.QuarantineEvents . OS X uses the data in this file for the warning messages that come up when you open a downloaded app .
I solved this using Mac Os X Lion install DVD . Boot your Mac from Mac Os X Lion install DVD by holding Option key at startup When a window appears go to menu and find Terminal and run it From inside terminal you can copy any files ( I used commands : df , ls , cd , mv ) This works for Macbook Pro late 2011 but will not work for 2012 and later models because Apple prevented them from being able to boot from install DVD or USB . Thus all recovery tools like DiskWarrior Boot DVD , Drive Genius and similar will not work on 2012 and later macs . The other option is to ask a friend with Mac to make a Recovery USB using <URL> and make a DMG file from it using Disk Utility and send you over internet . Then use the <URL> application under Windows and burn DMG on your USB stick . You will be able to boot from this USB stick into Recovery Mode and from there you can run Terminal to copy \ move files or do whatever you need . Apple should distribute some bootable ISO or DMG image which can be downloaded from their website and burned on disk or USB and used to recover Mac offline .
You are able to see the charge status on the iPhone page on the new iTunes 11 .
Seems like a solution is to hold home button + volume down + screen lock until device forcibly reboots . After that , guided access began responding properly again and I was able to exit the app . Edit : Through trial and error , I felt this was home button + volume down + screen lock , but as comments have noted , volume down is not necessary .
end question
start question
How do I prevent Facebook on iOS 7 from accessing my location ?
Indeed @cksum appears to be correct . I just tested this on my dev device that 's never had Facebook installed . The app said that it knew my location and showed the blue location icon , but did n't show in the list of apps in Location Services . I pressed ' send ' and got the ' Facebook wants to use your location ' message , which I accepted and now the app is in the list and allowed me to switch it off . In conclusion , yes it appears that Facebook does n't request the actual location data until you press send , at which point the app is added to the list in Settings .
You ca n't . I 've been an iOS software developer for two years and I have n't been able to find a way do this . I have tried to find solutions to this but came up with nothing . I 'd love to be proven wrong , but I 'm 99 % certain there 's no way to do this . When my screen is too small I use 50 % scale window , which is ought to be enough until I hook up my big monitor again at home .
Require Administrator for AirPort You can set up your computer to require an administrator password to change AirPort settings , including changing networks . Open System Preferences → Network . Select your WiFi service in the services list . Click Advanced ... in the bottom-right corner . Select the options that you would like to require administrator authorization for . Click OK , then Apply .
Go into the keyboard settings and add a shortcut for the corrected spelling of the word . I had to do this with my daughter 's name , as every time I spelled it , it would come out in capitals . You can just use a part of the word and it can auto spell the word for you , or you can spell it with a different capitalization and save the corrected version the other way . If you need to use the first part of the word it may not work . Do n't really know , but it worked for me ;-)
Settings App - > Notifications - > Messages - > Repeat Alerts change that to " never . " :-) Let me know if that helped ...
Instructions from official CocoaSuite support To deactivate , delete this folder : Other files and folders installed that can be deleted ( ~ stands for your home directory ) :
You will have to download the GM seed from the Developer Portal to move off the Beta . This will once again be a complete clean and restore so make sure your backups are up to date before starting . Barring any last minute showstoppers the GM build will be the released version .
But what if there 's a site that I trust in perpetuity ? If you want to trust a site in perpetuity check " Prompt for each website one time only " in Settings > Privacy , visit the site , in the sheet that appears check the option " Remember my decision and do n't ask me again " and click the Allow button : If you get prompted to allow Safari to use your location , press the OK button : Note that the Cookies and Website Data > Details section in Safari : does n't mention whether a specific site can access your location information : so you might lose track of which sites you allowed . For more information visit this article : <URL>
Apple uses the following hostnames for distributing OTA updates : mesu.apple.com appldnld.apple.com Blocking access to these hostnames should prevent iOS from downloading the updates , resulting in one of the following errors , based on whether the device has knowledge of the update or not before the access is blocked : Software Update Failed : An error occurred downloading iOS 7 . Software Update Unavailable : Software Update is not available at this time . Try again later . Unable to Check for Update : An error occurred while checking for a software update . iOS devices use the following XML file to find the relevant update and download file : <URL> Blocking access just to this file should be sufficient providing that the devices have no knowledge of the update prior to your blocking .
Remove it from the list of " Preferred Networks " and it will stop auto-connecting . Go to " System Preferences " > " Networks " prefpane . Choose " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " on Lion ) on the left . Click the " Advanced " button . In the resulting sheet , choose the " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " ) tab . ( It should be the leftmost . ) Select your neighbor 's wifi network in the list and hit the " - " ( minus ) button . Live with joy at never [ auto - ] connecting there again !
Tap on the photo bubble in the message list . Tap to bring up the photo controls . Press the Share button , and select Save Image . This works in both iOS 6 and iOS 7 .
Arrrgh . I found the reason , my own stupidity . :) I use a Bluetooth keyboard whose keys are extremely sensitive to pressure when it 's stowed in the backpack . It usually goes to sleep when not used , but wakes up when you press a key . The " play " key on that keyboard was what made the iPad blare away .
There is an easier option . Go to the contact that has been merged . Click edit . Click the minus icon next to the Facebook card at the bottom of the contact . The two cards will spring apart and you will have two contacts . Hit save .
This morning , I updated to iOS 8.3 and the Activity app now appears on the last page of the home screen . So I would try to either update to iOS 8.3 or restart the phone if you 're having this problem .
Crowd-sourced Wi-Fi and cellular Location Services If Location Services is on , your device will periodically send the geo-tagged locations of nearby Wi-Fi hotspots and cell towers in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to augment Apple 's crowd-sourced database of Wi-Fi hotspot and cell tower locations . In addition , if you 're traveling ( for example , in a car ) and Location Services is on , a GPS-enabled iOS device will also periodically send GPS locations and travel speed information in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to be used for building up Apple 's crowd-sourced road traffic database . The crowd-sourced location data gathered by Apple does n't personally identify you . <URL>
This should work , but , as this is working with tech , you never know : Open System Preferences . Select Network . Select " Wi-Fi " on the sidebar ( AirPort if you 're running SL or earlier ) . Click " Advanced ... " in the lower right . On the Wi-Fi tab , click the plus sign beneath " Preferred Networks " . Enter the name of the network that you want to connect to . In the security drop-down , select " Any ( Enterprise ) " . Log in with your username and password . Press OK .
If you copy the CD to a disk image on the PC , you can put the image on a USB stick and transfer it to your Air . I am not sure how to do this on Window , but I 'm sure you can find out how to do this somewhere . <URL> looks like it should do what you want . Also look at <URL>
No , you ca n't do that . Apple only allows users to update to the latest software , as it fights version fragmentation . I recommend just updating to iOS 8.4.1 . For the most part , whatever bugs existed in iOS 8 are fixed by now . You could also just wait until iOS 9 comes out in a couple of weeks , bug fixes and performance enhancements will be a major part of iOS 9 . This all is an effect of " code signing " where you need Apple to sign the version of code at the moment it gets installed . Since <URL> , you would need to jailbreak or bypass that entire process . Unless you 're into the details of Jailbreaking you can stay at iOS 6 or upgrade to the versions Apple supports/signs . I strongly recommend against jailbreaking , though .
I recommend using the Shared Folders feature in VMware Fusion . I have a Boot Camp partition as well running Windows 7 . When I need to access files that are on the Mac OS X side from within Windows , I go the VM preferences and enable each folder I want to share ( you can share multiple folders form different locations ) . All shared folders will then be shown on the Z :\ drive in Windows . Hope this helps .
There is an extension that runs on Firefox that can easily snag that video . I use Firefox 20.0 with <URL> It does not work with Safari , but I 've tested the Facebook link for you and it will get you the entire 2 GB video file if you have a fast network connection . You will get an unsigned extension warning when installing the add-on , since the video downloader is n't signed by the developer . You also need flash player since it grabs the flash file .
end question
start question
Why does OS X format MS-DOS filesystems so much faster than Windows does ?
The format process can be handled differently depending on what the OS actually accomplish by during the format . Formatting should leave a clean and cleared file system . This can be done very fast by only clearing the file allocation table ( FAT ) . This means writing to a very limited blocks / sectors on the disk . Alternatively formatting may include clearing all the data previously on the disk/drive . This obviously involves writing to ALL of the disk and is a lot more time consuming . Windows have the " fast " option and Mac OS X also has the " slow " option - OS X even has options to multi-wipe data with random garbage data ( this usually takes forever ) .
<URL> , the 4th gen iPod Touch has 256MB , not 512MB like the iPhone 4. : Breaking news : the iPod Touch has only 256 MB RAM , same Samsung part markings as iPad .
Save a plist like this as : Then load the plist with or by logging out and back in . is supposed to open an application hidden and without raising any windows . For some document-based applications like TextEdit , it opens a new visible window if the application is open but has no visible windows . and the option for were added in 10.8 . The option is only shown in the help message and not on the man page .
Yes , it is the whole virtual disk which gets saved , there is no binary diff .
There are quite a few commands which let you do this in Mac OS X : Cmd + Tab for switching applications Cmd + ` for switching windows within applications F3/F9 for Exposé ( shows all windows in a graphical way , on trackpads you can do a 4-finger swipe down ) F10 for showing windows of a specific application in Exposé F11 for showing desktop and shoving all other windows to the side , on a trackpad its 4 finger swipe up There is also Spaces which is like having multiple desktops , where you can switch to and fro . You can enable it in the prefrence pane in System Preferences and suit the keyboard shortcuts to you liking
PNG is not only useful for allowing transparency : PNG is a <URL> , while JPEG uses a <URL> . Also PNG does compress screenshots pretty well ( unlike camera photos , which is why Apple uses JPG for those ) . More info if interested : Also , <URL> is worth reading ( it 's basically one of the main references on the topic and contains enough details to spend the day on it ) . Excerpt : For the Web , as of early 1999 , there are two image formats with ubiquitous support : JPEG and GIF . JPEG is very well suited to the task for which it was designed -- namely , the storage , transmission , and display of photorealistic 8-bit grayscale and 24-bit truecolor images with good quality and excellent compression -- and PNG was never intended to compete with JPEG on its own terms . But PNG , like GIF , is more appropriate than JPEG for images with few colors or with lots of sharp edges , such as cartoons or bitmapped text . PNG also provides direct support for gamma correction ( loosely speaking , the cross-platform control of image `` brightness '' ) and transparency . I 'll discuss these in more detail shortly . GIF was the original cross-platform image format for the Web , and it is still a good choice in many respects . But PNG was specifically designed to replace GIF , and it has three main advantages over the older format : alpha channels ( variable transparency ) , gamma correction , and two-dimensional interlacing ( a method of displaying images at progressively higher levels of detail ) . PNG also compresses better than GIF in almost every case , but the difference is generally only around 5 % to 25 % , which is ( usually ) not a large enough factor to encourage one to switch on that basis alone . One GIF feature that PNG does not try to reproduce is multiple-image support , especially animations ; PNG was and is intended to be a single-image format only . A very PNG-like extension format called MNG has been developed to address this limitation .
According to the <URL> on FlatpanelsHD.com , it will use 0.8 watts when in standby ( not sleep ) , and 1.9 watts when in use . To use their description , this is " ridiculously low . " Since all the device needs to do is wait for Bonjour , AirPlay , or IR signals -- and the upper number matches up with <URL> -- I 'd say this is believable . Fun perspective fact from the Apple report : It takes 30 Apple TVs , all streaming HD video , to use the same amount of power as a common 60W light bulb . You can quickly put the Apple TV to sleep by holding the play/pause button on the home screen . The cursor should be over one of the apps , not a content preview , and last I tested , this did n't work with the play/pause button of the Remote app .
As another answer pointed out , iOS 8 <URL> , much the same way FileVault encrypts a hard drive on a Mac . The more data you have , the longer it will take to de-crypt or re-encrypt all this stuff as you toggle it . The secondary reason for this is by design : Mac OS and iOS have <URL> , as most are aware ( side note : how cool is it iOS auto-fills ' underpinnings ' after I type ' UNIX ' ?! ) . UNIX systems implement a <URL> , which is designed to resist brute-force attacks because it takes so damn long . While the effectiveness of this technique has waned as processors become faster and more powerful , it 's still noticeable as the little spinny thing on your login screen just before you log in to your Mac , which would make sitting there and typing random passwords very annoying ( read up on pam_unix if this interests the developer side of your brain ) .
<URL> , released July 20 , 2011 , drops support for all versions of Windows XP and Vista . It supports 32-bit or 64-bit Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium , Professional , or Ultimate . <URL> from Apple Support .
I seems that I use filters in GMail to skip inbox , and the sound is actually come from Mail.app . As a result , no new mail arrives to the Inbox of Mail.app , but to the Archive of the Mail.app . In the preference of Mail.app , one option is to choose " Inbox Only " for " New message notifications " . But it seems that this option will not mute the new messages sound when new message arrive to other mailbox , only skip the notification alert that shows up in the upper right corner of the screen .
This is due to the nature of garbage collection technology used in Java . Freeing memory in such systems is delayed until some threshold reached , or out of memory happens , or some time passes . It is probably not using all those 700MB all the time ( may as well be just 50 MB ) , but Activity Monitor has no way to look inside Java virtual machine and tell how much is actually used . Normally , if there are no bugs or leaks ( yes GC systems may leak too ) , Java should give up unused memory whenever your system runs out of it , so there is no need to worry right now . Said that , if you do n't need the program , it wo n't hurt uninstalling whatever is starting it up .
The OS X disk utility checks the HFS + volume header , and its backup header ( located in the last block of the disk ) . If both match , then the rest of the disk is assumed to be consistent . That 's along the lines of quick fsck ( 8 ) check . Another quick check for journal consistency is performed if you 've set up journaling , and if that also checks ok , then the rest is skipped . You can always run fsck manually , or - <URL> has a tool called HFSleuth which - while directed at programmer/hacker types - can allow you to do a more thorough check .
Leaving the LTE on will not drain your battery life . The data modem in your phone ( a Qualcomm MDM9615M ) is a chip that handles LTE and 3G signals . Therefore , your phone is not using a 3G chip and then draining your battery by having a second chip search for a LTE signal .
Yes - anything you do to reduce the number of writes to an SSD will prolong " the life of the drive " . Also yes - the memory ( RAM disk ) is an order of magnitude faster ( between 10 to 1000 times as fast based on what exact workload you want to measure ) than just the SSD . Whether you ever get to a point where your SSD fails due to write exhaustion or if something else breaks first ( or you sell the device ) is hard to estimate even for a statistical group of 1000 machines used in a proscribed manner . I would n't worry about trying to extend my SSD life and instead worry about making the Mac you have work well for the specific tasks you need . The OS already caches much of the filesystem to RAM , so you 'll need a very specific workload to do a better job at caching than the OS already does for free . Also , a repair part is not that expensive should you actually wear out that one part before you 're done with that computer . Yes , try not to have un-necessary writes and thrashing an SSD , but since Apple designs the SSD to be covered under AppleCare for three years - it 's not in their interest to have lots of SSD needing replacement due to them picking a part that wo n't last long enough in practice .
Yes , newer versions of Bash are released under GPLv3 This question brings out armchair lawyers that argue points for and against GPLv3 . Simply put , GPLv3 conflicts with Apple 's Licensing Policies ( among other licenses ) . None of these licenses prevent you from downloading the source code and compiling a newer version of Bash . On a historical note , Bash was not originally offered as a shell in OS X. Apple does not supply any software under the GPLv3 license .
If you have the <URL> ( on your Mac ) it can deliver up to 100 Watts . For iPhone it will deliver 10 Watts ( 5 Volt x 2 Amps ) which is more than your charger .
iCloud documents are cached locally in ( represents your home folder ) . They 're synchronized via HTTPS ( even when the application is closed ) and the files ( some of them , at least ) , are stored on <URL> . When opening , editing and saving a TextEdit document from iCloud , these requests are made : request to request to request to Amazon S3 request to request to request to
I did it . ( Apple Developer ) . I have a second computer that I use for all beta testing , running OS X 10.6 . I used the app store on that computer to download the Lion Beta Installer . It downloads and installs just like any other app . You then run the Lion Beta Installer app and it reboots and installs Lion as if it came off a CD . After another reboot , you are running Lion , with all your apps and settings working just fine . Hope this does not defy the NDA .
Recommended reading : <URL> ( and the rest of Prince McLean 's <URL> ) . If you do n't want that much reading , I 'll summarize : First , you have to realize that OS X does n't have a single 32/64-bit mode switch like Windows does ; It 'll happily run 64-bit apps under a 32-bit kernel , or vice versa , and both of those are independent of what the physical memory subsystem can support . Mind you , the bitness of apps and kernel do impose memory limits : an app running in 32-bit mode can only address 4GB of virtual memory no matter how much is installed/supported in the machine ( although a Mac with lots of RAM can run several fully-resident 4GB processes at once ) ; and if the kernel is in 32-bit mode it can only allocate up to 4GB for its various data structures ( page table , process table , open file table , etc ) . This is already a bit different from the way Windows does it , as it shares address space between the kernel and the running process , so they each only get 2GB . The advantage of the Windows method is that it does n't require a cache flush to switch in and out of the kernel , making it faster . But OS X only needs to flush the cache if both the program and kernel are in 32-bit mode ; if either is 64-bit , they share space and avoid the speed penalty . Now , on to the question you 're asking about : physical RAM limits . Many early Intel Macs actually have the same ~ 3GB memory limit that 32-bit Windows has , for the same reason : some of the 4GB physical address space is taken up by memory mapped I/O , especially the video card . Some later Macs used the Santa Rosa support chipset , which allowed them to put the I/O in a separate address space , and use up to 4GB of physical RAM . Higher-end ( / even newer ) Macs have PAE , which allows much more physical RAM . Rumor is that Windows does n't support PAE in most of their 32-bit OSes because of driver compatibility problems . Apple controls most of the relevant drivers anyway , so they made it work ; if the hardware supports it , the OS just uses it .
The charger supplies the power that is demanded from it ( up to it 's rated output ) , not the other way around . So it 's entirely possible that the same unit will charge different devices at different speeds . It 's entirely possible that a newer battery will charge faster than an identical but older battery , and also possible that the new phone is allowed to pull more charge because it runs a little cooler ( charging generates heat , and one of the metrics for deciding how fast to charge is the heat generated as well as the batteries capacity to drink it up ) . Basically , it 's really hard to measure , without you do a from flat to full charge with the same unit to different devices with batteries of the same age and condition . Even then , be aware that the phone does n't stop charing when it says 100 % , that 's an artificial figure and your phone will continue to charge a little ( the equivalent of a little over 5 % more logically speaking ) , then run from battery a little , then charge a little , then run from battery etc - this is to keep your battery in good condition ( the same is true for 0 % , it will go lower in order to perform a clean shutdown - the battery figures are only an indication , not an accurate gauge ) - the actual methods for each device may also vary as to how they handle this .
end question
start question
iphone voip services allowed ?
From a technological standpoint this is possible - Skype makes voice calls just fine over 3G data on my iPhone . However , as far as I know , AT&amp;T and Verizon do not permit you to run phone devices on their network without a phone plan , so it 's unlikely that you will be able to do what you 're looking for , as least officially . I have heard that some people have had success transplanting the iPad SIM into an iPhone , but it 's not something that 's guaranteed to work and AT&amp;T may block its use at some point in the future , if they have n't already .
Go to the folder that Zoiper is installed Find the file zoiper.cfg which is essentially an xml file Your SIP username and password are located between and .
Most people I know of that appreciate the invisible shield type skins go for a sleeve as their secondary protection method . I have seen very nice ones made DIY style from all <URL> - the more risky a sport , the more padding you can include . It 's cheap , light and only as bulky as you need . A simple strap will keep your phone in the sleeve and you can waterproof with a bag as needed . The nature of the soft sticky films is that they grip most hard cases and result in the damage you are seeing to the skin when a hard plastic case gets fitted over the phone . If foam is n't your preference , sleeves from felt and leather are also widely available from reputable retail and internet sellers , etsy , ebay . Do n't overlook the potential to have your local craftsmen or craftswomen make a sleeve to your exact specifications for a reasonable cost .
One possible solution would be to use a locked <URL> - clear , much tougher to break and with a headphone jack pass through .
The Music app is pretty limited in terms of the metadata it displays . At the moment it 's not possible to view the play counts for songs . Third party apps can access your music collection , but I 'm not sure how much metadata is exposed to them . It may be possible to see play counts with a third party app , but I do n't know for sure , nor do I know of any apps that do this .
For most of the " services " ( called Daemons or Agents ) you can check : In terminal : For example only MySQL you can filter the output of the command above , like . Note is to make the filter case insensitive . These can be controlled with a GUI named Lingon . There are some other " services " , that will install themselves in : For those , there is a command like to view whether it is loaded and running . But there is n't a generic mechanism to stop , start or restart . In which catergory your MySQL installation falls is impossible to say , as your question is lacking details on what exactly you have installed , what its source is , how it was installed , etc. .
Since iTunes wo n't back up the apps , I tried taking the files , e.g. Evernote 7.9.1 . ipa , etc , and moving them from the iTunes 11 to iTunes 12 . When at the Yosemite machine running iTunes 12 , a double click of the app loaded it to the folder where apps are stored and pulled it into iTunes to sync . Now , I 'll spend a bit of time and look at the old phone to see which apps I use and would like to keep . Just a click to load each one , at least not a search and download off the store .
Afraid not . The simulator runs on x86 architecture and the iPhone apps are published to run on ARM .
Unfortunately there is no simple answer to your question . Battery life obviously depends on what is running and what your phone is doing when you are using it and when your not using it . Hopefully this list will help you out : 3G uses more battery life than Edge . The lower your signal , the more your phone has to work , thus using more battery , in order to keep that signal . If you have poor signal , phone calls/internet usage will drain slightly faster than on a good signal . Wifi uses less battery than 3G , but still an ok amount . Signal issues can cause more usage like in 3g cases . Wifi and 3G are still used while your phone is n't being used to access Mail if you have Mail Fetching turned on . A lot of times people who have bad battery life are always fetching their mail every 15 minutes , even if there is no mail to check , it still does this . I recommend turing that off or switching to a Push Email Account like Gmail or Mobile Me . Also , Exchange Emails can sometimes get corrupted on your phone and drain battery life like crazy by constantly syncing and checking for mail over and over again . Removing and re-adding the Exchange email has shown to fix issues with Battery Life in certain cases . Also , close apps that are not being used anymore in your Multitasking App Tray . A lot of times having 40 to 50 apps in there can cause a bit more battery drain . Now this does n't mean clear it every time you use an App , just every once in a while . Same thing goes for restarting your iPhone/iDevice . Every couple of weeks or so powering it off and then powering it on can clear up little things that could have been using slightly more battery life . Bluetooth 2.1 Devices use a lot of battery . Bluetooth 2.1 , is one of the biggest killers of battery life . If you do not use Bluetooth , turn it off now . Bluetooth 4 Devices are considerably better at battery life , since BT 4.0 has a better low powered mode , but the problem is still with 2.1 devices . I can have BT 4.0 device but if it is paired with a 2.1 device , it will consume more battery life . Accelerometer has never really come up ever as causing battery life issues or for draining more battery life than other things . I would n't really worry about it . Same thing goes for the compass inside the iPhone and Gyroscope . GPS does use a good amount of battery , relatively between wifi and 3G standards , especially if you are constantly accessing it . Still , you usually use this in a car , and if you are driving great distances then I would recommend getting a car charger anyway . You can get them cheap and they are always useful . Screen Brightness , the unrealized killer of battery life . Always make sure your screen is at an optimal brightness , with Auto Brightness ( energy saving ) settings always on in the screen brightness section of the Preferences App . This setting helps a lot . I would also recommend having your brightness at 50 percent . It may seem really dim at first , but your eye will get used to it and it can save a few percentages . I know its not the most perfect answer and does n't give you extensive research study related material , but hopefully it will shed some light on the things you wanted to know . I have a lot of experience with different battery issues and fixes when it comes to iPhones as a former Apple Employee . I hope it helps you out .
<URL> works for testing multitouch , so you can try different areas of the screen by holding one finger in a place you know works and move the other elsewhere . If the line breaks , then the second finger is in a location that does n't work . You can test it full screen ( without the Safari UI but the status bar is still present ) by adding it to the home screen .
Yes , Since a lot of providers have bandwidth caps , Netflix has put in a downgrade quality option to manage video quality . Login to netflix first , then go to <URL> Select from Good Quality . up to 0.3 GB per hour . Better Quality . Up to 0.7 GB per hour . Best Quality . Up to 1 GB per hour , or 2.3 GB per hour for HD .
You could do it from the command line and/or write a script with the relevant services : And for ssh ( remote login ) for example Bringing them back up then with ( instead of stop )
I do n't have an iPhone 4 to test this , but I assume Core Location will do . <URL> <URL> is also an option , and comes with some more information .
4.2.1 is officially the latest supported version for the iPhone 3G , but you can supposedly install iOS 5 on it with this method : <URL> In the video , it shows the Messages app on the homescreen , so that ought to work for you .
You can buy very cheap screen replacements on ebay ( about AU$ 30 ) . I have fitted one of these myself , it is not too hard .
This can be easily calculated with the available information . Since screen dimensions are always specified as the diagonal measurement , the rectangle can be divided into two equal right-angled triangles , with the hypotenuse being the diagonal measurement and the aspect ratio of the display providing inputs for the calculation of the height and width . iPhone 4S Display size ( always specified as the diagonal size ) : <URL> Aspect ratio : <URL> ( which is specified as 3:2 and can be calculated from the resolution - 960 x 640 pixels ; 960/640 = 1.5 ) Calculating the height and width when the ratio of the sides and the length of the hypotenuse are known can be done manually or even quicker , by using <URL> . Check this <URL> . The result is 74.05 mm by 49.37 mm . iPhone 5s Display size ( always specified as the diagonal size ) : <URL> Aspect ratio : <URL> ( which is specified as 16:9 and can be calculated from the resolution - 1136 x 640 pixels ; 1136/640 = 1.775 ) Calculating the height and width when the ratio of the sides and the length of the hypotenuse are known can be done manually or even quicker , by using <URL> . Check this <URL> . The result is 87.12 mm by 49.08 mm .
If they are stored locally instead of on iCloud they will not sync . If you can place them in iCloud they will sync correctly . Uncheck all accounts to find the wrongly placed contacts , happy hunting ! ( :
It 's more that Safari was being boosted in 4.3 and that that boost was not available to Web Apps on the homescreen According to <URL> this is fixed in iOS 5 .
Since the phone is less than a year old , it will be covered by the default AppleCare warranty . I suggest contacting Apple , and they will probably just replace the phone outright .
After playing around with it some more , I have discovered the pattern . ( It was tricky to figure out because it changes ! ) You ca n't drag the current desktop ( of any display ) off of that display .
end question
start question
Is It Possible To Use Desktop Mac Apps On An iPad ?
Using remote desktop tools , yes . For example , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> come to mind immediately .
No , this is not possible since iBooks does not support bulk importing of content from other applications on an iOS device . The three ways to add books to iBooks are : Purchase from the iBooks store and download Sync books through iTunes Send a single book ( not several ) from another application on the iOS device with the Open In ... iBooks option Also , iBooks does not have the concept of folders and folder hierarchies . It does have Collections , but there is no way to map folders to Collections from iTunes or any other source .
I do n't believe you can do this with the stock phone , however if you decide to jailbreakyour iPhone , you could use an application like <URL> to share your iPhone 's 3G connection over WiFi
Here 's an updated procedure for Windows 10 , based on orkoden 's excellent answer . I tested this process on a MacBookPro11 ,1 running OS X 10.11.5 ( 15F34 ) . Throughout the process , directly connect all devices to your Mac . I found that certain operations failed more frequently if I used the USB hub in my monitor . In addition to the external drive that will host your Windows installation ( the " destination drive " ) , you will need another USB drive ( the " driver drive " ) to temporarily store the Boot Camp drivers . I used these parts : Destination drive : Samsung T3 Portable 500GB USB 3.0 External SSD ( MU-PT500B / AM ) Driver drive : SanDisk Extreme 32GB USB 3.0 Flash Drive ( SDCZ80-032G-GAM46 ) Here are the steps : Install VMware Fusion 8.1.1 from VMware 's site The non-professional free evaluation version is sufficient VMware Fusion 7.1.3 could n't connect my external USB disk to my Windows VM I downloaded VMware-Fusion-8 .1.1 -3771013 . dmg ( SHA256 : 29cad381a36374e58a85fb58f7aaad8cae41ad50ef07fdda0db6d782c95c0a95 ) Download the Windows 10 ISO file from <URL> I chose Windows 10 , English , 64-bit I downloaded Win10_1511_1_English_x64 . iso ( SHA256 : cf5cff9e23c853fed769cf382e18b29889dcc0055b69226f0164ab51eca3069c ) Download the Windows 7 Automated Installation Kit from <URL> I downloaded KB3AIK_EN . iso ( SHA256 : c6639424b2cebabff3e851913e5f56410f28184bbdb648d5f86c05d93a4cebba ) Prepare the driver drive . Run diskutil list to determine the device name . In my case , the device name was / dev/disk2 . Erase the disk using diskutil eraseDisk fat32 DRIVERS MBR / dev/disk2 Open Boot Camp Assistant In " Introduction " , click " Continue " In " Select Tasks " : Uncheck " Create a Windows 7 or later version install disk " Check " Download the latest Windows support software from Apple " Uncheck " Install Windows 7 or later version " Click " Continue " In " Save Windows Support Software " , choose the driver drive , and click " Continue " . Wait for the process to complete . Eject the driver drive : diskutil eject / dev/disk2 Disconnect the driver drive . Prepare the temporary Windows VM . We 'll use the temporary Windows VM to write the disk image to the destination drive . In VMware Fusion : Create a new VM : File > New In " Select the Installation Method " , choose " Install from disc or image " , and click " Continue " . In " Create a New Virtual Machine " , choose " Use another disc or disc image ... " , locate Win10_1511_1_English_x64 . iso , and click " Continue " . In " Microsoft Windows Easy Install " , uncheck " Use Easy Install " , and click " Continue " . Click " Finish " . Start the VM and complete Windows Setup . The settings do n't really matter , because we 're just using this VM to write the disk image . Choose " Next " Choose " Install now " Choose " I do n't have a product key " Choose " Windows 10 Pro " Choose " I accept the license terms " Choose " Custom : Install Windows only ( advanced ) " Choose " Drive 0 Unallocated Space " and click " Next " Choose " Use Express settings " Choose " I own it " Choose " Skip this step " Enter a username Install the Automated Installation Kit : From the " Virtual Machine " menu , choose " CD/DVD ( SATA ) " > " Choose Disc or Disc Image ... " . Select KB3AIK_EN . iso . From the Start menu , choose " File Explorer " , and then " This PC " . Double-click " DVD Drive ( D :) KB3AIK_EN " . Choose " Yes " Choose " . NET Framework Setup " Choose " Download and install this feature " After installation completes , choose " Close " Choose " Windows AIK Setup " Choose " Next " Choose " I agree " Choose " Next " Choose " Next " After installation completes , choose " Close " Prepare and image the destination drive : From the Start menu , choose " All apps " . Choose " Microsoft Windows AIK " . Right-click " Deployment Tools Command Prompt " . Choose " More " , then choose " Run as administrator " . Choose " Yes " . Prepare the destination drive : Run diskpart Plug in the destination drive . In the " Choose where you would like to connect " prompt , choose " Connect to Windows " Run list disk to determine the disk number of the destination drive . In my case , the disk number was 1 . Run : select disk 1 Run : clean Run : create partition primary Run : format fs = ntfs quick Run : assign Run : active Run : list volume Note the drive letter for the selected volume ( marked with a * ) ; this is the drive letter of the destination drive . In my case , the letter was " E " . Run : exit From the " Virtual Machine " menu , choose " CD/DVD ( SATA ) " > " Choose Disc or Disc Image ... " . Select Win10_1511_1_English_x64 . iso . Run : imagex / check / verify / apply d : \ sources \ install.wim " Windows 10 Home " e : Use " Windows 10 Pro " to install Pro Run : bcdboot e : \ windows / v / s e : Run : shutdown / p Quit VMware Fusion Restart into Windows to complete installation Restart the Mac while holding the Option key When the startup disk list appears , use the arrow keys to choose Windows . Complete Windows Setup . If Windows restarts during Setup , restart again while holding the Option key to return to Windows . Insert the driver drive . Open the Start menu , choose " File Explorer " , choose " DRIVERS ( E
If the card can be used in an Apple retail store ( i.e. not an iTunes gift card ) , then yes . Repairs are treated as an in-line item in their POS system . Any valid form of payment that could be used to pay for anything else in the store can be used to pay for repairs . I called an Apple retail store to confirm this .
<URL> , so you could <URL> and then install Nautilus using that : You should then be able to run it using the terminal command . You may see the following during installation : Running the commands manually should be enough to run directly after installation ( without rebooting ) .
UPDATE It looks like this has been broken in Mac OS X 10.9 ( and was n't fixed in 10.9.1 ) This works again in the latest Mac Os X 10.10.1 , and presumably also in 10.10 . Trackpad Three-finger swipe left goes back and forth in Finder , just like in Safari . You do n't need 3rd party software to do this , simply make sure your settings are correct . Go to via Spotlight or Launchpad , navigate to and click the tab . The first option is " Swipe between pages " , which enables swiping in Finder , Chrome etc. . Make sure to choose one of the two options . I 've attached an image showing the screen for you here : Make sure that you 've chosen in the so the two options do n't overrule each other . You also want to make sure there is no checkmark in the . They are mutually exclusive . You can check this in the tab . Magic Mouse If you use a Magic Mouse and want to be able to swipe back and forth in Finder , you have to turn off the and change to either or ( both options enables you to swipe back and forth in Finder when using both fingers .
In a word , no , it 's currently available for any App to read , and then subsequently use as it sees fit . However , Apple recently made clear that they would not approve future Apps that request it , and so it 's use will be negated over time , but of course this wo n't necessarily apply to the millions of apps already approved .
Not Yet , I have tested it and TechHive <URL> . Though Mavericks may bring this functionality ( complete speculation obviously ) .
Only Company / Organization accounts can add additional developers to its team . As stated under the <URL> page , in the Individual account section : Individual Development Only You are the only one allowed access to program resources .
Yes you can do it with an internal partition or in an external HDD , just one partition , USB , DVD , all is more or less the same , I have to say that this is one of the best things on the Mac , so easy to backup and restore systems . NOTICE : back up all your data , and make sure the partition that you are going to use is the correct one , this will destroy all information in that partition Open Disk utility , and click the desired partition on the left column . Go to the " restore " tab At the source , select the dmg file containing the installer ( you may need to scan the image first , to do that go to the images menu item and select " Scan image for restore " ) . At the destination , drag the partition that you would like to use . Press Restore ( erase everything on , at least I prefer it that way ) . THIS DESTROYS ALL INFO IN THAT PARTITION . If all went well , it should copy all info into the partition Go to system preferences and select startup disk , select the partition that you restored the installer into Restart . If all went well , you should be seeing the installer running from your partition , just select the destination for the new installation and all should be ok . If for some reason the restore did n't work , you may need to mount the installer image and use that " virtual " disk as the source and not the actual image , I 've had some trouble in the past and this sorted my problem .
Yes . I own a MacBook Pro 3,1 . I installed 6GB memory and have been using it like that for more than two years . Note the specifications below . You can call the tech support people at <URL> if you have any questions . The RAM in my system is as follows : Bank 0 : 2GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz Bank 1 : 4GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz
No , you can not do this ( <URL> ) . You should strongly consider not using WPS anyway , as it has a number of <URL> . Apple has a page which <URL> for connecting an iOS device , which might help .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
This is currently not possible . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
<URL> will be your best bet . There 's several tutorials laying around on getting OS 9 running in SheepShaver .
I believe that I have the same tablet . I gave it to my niece whose computer was running 10.10.x . I believe that I simply browsed for the most current legacy driver that they was made for it here : <URL> If that does n't work , I would try the next model of tablet after the one you have and its most current driver and keep moving to newer ones util it works . I was able to get it working without issue . I 'll check which driver I ended up using the next time is visit .
I think your conclusion is correct . This information is not included in the MDM Protocol Reference and therefore is n't available through MDM . The only way I can think of would be to side-load ( using an Enterprise Distribution certificate/profile ) an app that uses private APIs to monitor such activity and report back . Not recommended and against the Developer Program T&amp;C s I believe ...
FileMerge 2.8 , which ships with Xcode 5.0.1 links to frameworks that are located inside of the Xcode.app bundle . Shared libraries that are used by FileMerge can be displayed by performing the command : The output of this command indicates that FileMerge needs to use the DevToolsInterface , DevToolsCore , and DevToolsFoundation frameworks . : The prefix indicates that <URL> to search for frameworks that are being referenced . Specifically , FileMerge contains in its run path list . When located inside of the Xcode.app bundle , those frameworks are right where FileMerge expects them to be . However , if you copy FileMerge out of the Xcode.app bundle , FileMerge will crash upon launch . This occurs because the referenced frameworks ( referenced above ) are not in the run path list , which causes to exit with an error of . The reason it can not find those referenced frameworks is that a folder at the relative path does not exist , and the frameworks do not exist in any other folders listed in the run path . To use FileMerge without the Xcode app installed , you have a couple of options : Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to one of the folders referenced in the run path list ( or are probably a couple of the best choices ) . Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to be at relative to the FileMerge app ( e.g. , if FileMerge is at , copy the folder to Edit The above answer allows FileMerge to launch , but the application will terminate when you actually attempt to compare files . Apparently the application is looking for platform information at the path . This means that it is necessary to copy from to ( relative to FileMerge.app ) . Here are some steps that could be used to copy FileMerge to a folder at :
<URL> is a great tool for ripping DVDs and otherwise converting video . The legal question is probably beyond the scope of this forum , but if you own the dvd and are only ripping it for your own personal viewing , I would n't worry about it .
end question
start question
Is there a way I can customize the application names in the Application folder ?
you are right changing the names may have unforeseen consequences later . You can make a new folder somewhere . Named Apps . Or what ever you want to name it . Then create alises to the applications Placing the aliases in the new folder . You can name the aliases what ever you like and have the new folder in the dock . 1 , Create the Aliases . Drag Applications to your new folder . They should automatically choose to be alias files because you are dragging from the Applications folder . The cursor should become a curved arrow while you are dragging . If not then hold down the alt + cmd keys to make the copies allies files . 2 , Now rename the alias files what ever you want . This will not affect the real files . I have just named some of them here 3 , Place the Folder in the Dock . And now when you go to it the Alias file will look like the real apps . Have your names and open the real apps . You can Also just place any of the Alias files directly on the Dock .
Add this to the CFBundleDocumentTypes array in : Change the default application back to Safari in Finder If the application is signed , modifying an Info.plist <URL> . It also makes a few applications like TextEdit and WriteRoom crash on launch on 10.8 .
We set up separate iTunes Connect accounts for the clients so that the client gets all of the info they need and also the money from Apple where applicable . You would also need to set up Apple developer Accounts for each client ( You get them to pay for their developer accounts ) They can then add you to that dev account and you will be able to manage the provisioning , certificates and other things on their behalf but using your developer access account . Apple documents this thoroughly here : <URL>
" Avian " was the project 's ' code ' or ' working ' name so the developers chose that string over the other choices .
If you ca n't delete the paused download ( which , I 'm thinking , suggests you are n't on the most recent release of iOS ) , then the simplest option that does n't require a restore is going to be to find a WiFi hotspot and let the app finish downloading . Personally , I 'd go that route ( especially if out-and-about or on vacation , etc. ) before wiping my data and having to restore again . Alternatively , leave it on paused until you get home to your primary network . Your phone does n't care two cents about your paused app downloads , so it should n't get in the way of anything .
Press the home button and the sleep button simultaneously . This will save a picture of the current iPhone screen to the " Photos " application . From there , you can either email it to anyone you want or sync it to your computer .
This is a very hard feat to accomplish , primarily because there is no specific definition of " Idle " . The only programs I 've seen to actually have idle features are <URL> and the recent Mac App Store releases of <URL> . And those simply have a configurable time that goes off after the set number of minutes when there 's no mouse/keyboard activity occurring . There 's been <URL> on the Macworld Forums some years ago , and a specific post that essentially entails <URL> that will monitor your usage and launch an application when you go " idle " . In this case idle is only after 2 minutes , but you can easily change that to be longer if necessary . You will also want to modify the line to open Transmission instead of TextEdit . Note that you will have to open this AppleScript and leave it running in order for the action ( launching an application on idle ) to ever occur .
iOS does not have an option for this , nor does apple approve apps which alter the status bar . If you want this function you will have to jailbreak your iOS device and install a third party status monitor . As pointed out in another answer , LockInfo does this . SBSettings used to , but no longer does . If you 're running an iOS 4.x device , OpenNotifier might be useful as it does this as well as give you pull-down notifications similar to android and iOS 5 . If you 're developing for this device , however , you can add this function yourself . As a developer you can run custom code without jailbreaking the device - you just ca n't submit that code to the app store . The trick , then , is going to be finding example code for this feature . I expect someone in the jailbreaking community will have some info on what the code needs to do , and if you 're lucky you 'll find an open source project for it . Then you can compile and sign it yourself , and as long as you keep your ad-hoc license current and recompile/re-sign it yearly , you can use it on your personal devices . I think a lot of developers overlook the fact that they can run any code they want on their own devices without jailbreaking . They can also distribute such apps in a limited manner to their friends using adhoc distribution as well . It looks like OpenNotifier is open source , and has the functionality you need : <URL> I do n't know much about the status of the project , but it might be usable for you as a developer to bring this functionality to your devices .
OS X applications are actually special folders which contain numerous smaller files , resources , binaries , localization settings , etc. . When the Finder opens a folder with a lot of apps , it needs to do a lot more than it would to open a folder with the same number of ordinary documents . At the very least , the Finder needs to check for the localized name of each app and load each app 's icon . It will also need to check whether it can launch the app , checking if it 's Intel , PPC , Universal , or Classic , possibly checking if it 's 64-bit or 32-bit , too . It 's possible the Finder is gathering other info as well , possibly checking the folder structure of each app to verify it 's actually an app , or checking its info.plist for file type associations , etc. . Lion may also verify that each app is listed in Launchpad . Of course , the more apps you have , the longer this process will take . I would guess that , unless your Macs are starved for RAM , the only way to make this process faster is to startup from an SSD instead of a conventional HD . Or perhaps delete all unneeded apps ( that were not installed by OS X ) . Also , the first time after each login , the Applications and Utilities folders may be slightly less responsive initially , even after the apps have shown up , because the Finder also needs to examine each app to calculate its total file size .
<URL> ( previously known as KeyRemap4MacBook ) Save a file like this as <URL> : Note that the field uses <URL> so , for example , any spaces in the path or filename should be encoded with . Alfred 2 If you have the Powerpack for Alfred 2 , you can create a workflow like this : Hotkeys have a short delay by default , but you can reduce it by changing the trigger behavior : Other applications that support assigning shortcuts to opening applications <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Automator services There has been a bug since 10.7 where the keyboard shortcuts for Automator services do n't always work until you hover over the services menu from the menu bar . There is also a relatively long delay before services are run , and the keyboard shortcuts for services do n't work when the frontmost application does n't have a services menu .
If you 're using an iCloud mail account then you can go to <URL> In the top right of the screen there 's a preferences icon -- looks like a cog . If you click on that the preferences pop-over opens , click on Rules and from there you can configure some basic rules to put messages into specified folders .
You can use a shell script like this : skips a file when a file with the same name exists in the target .
There is no need to jailbreak . An application like <URL> will do the trick , if you have a MacOS X computer . Just make sure you turn off encryption for the backup .
Go to the folder that Zoiper is installed Find the file zoiper.cfg which is essentially an xml file Your SIP username and password are located between and .
You can do this using AppleScript : 1 . Open AppleScript Editor 2 . Paste following code : property appName : " Mail " property minSecsBetweenLaunches : 600 -- seconds property checkEvery : 5 -- seconds -- DO NOT MODIFY AFTER THIS LINE IF NOT SURE -- property lastSeenOpen : " " property lastMailState : " " on run idle end run on idle my check ( ) return checkEvery -- check every n seconds end idle on check ( ) tell application " Finder " to set processes_names to name of processes if ( lastMailState is " " ) then -- First run set lastMailState to ( processes_names contains appName ) if lastMailState then set lastSeenOpen to current date end if else if ( processes_names contains appName ) then if ( lastMailState is false ) then -- App just started set lastMailState to true if ( lastSeenOpen is not " " ) then -- Already been launched , check if launch allowed set timeLeft to minSecsBetweenLaunches - ( ( current date ) - lastSeenOpen ) if ( timeLeft > 0 ) then tell application appName to quit activate display dialog " Wait " & timeLeft & " sec . before opening " & appName & " again . " end if end if end if set lastSeenOpen to current date else if ( lastMailState is true ) then -- App just quit set lastMailState to false end if end if end if end check 3 . Adjust settings The 3 first lines of the script can be edited to fit your needs . By default , check every 5 seconds if Mail has not been seen open since 10 min ( which is 600 seconds ) . 4 . Create the app File menu > Export Choose app name &amp; destination select to export as Application check " stay open ... " 5 . Hide from dock In the Finder , find the app you just exported , then right-click on it , and select " Show package content " . Then open " Info.plist " of the " Contents " folder in TextEdit , and , before the last < / dict > of the file , paste : < key > LSBackgroundOnly < / key > < string > 1 < / string > For info , after edit , end of my file looks like : [ ... ] < string > event log < / string > < / dict > < key > LSBackgroundOnly < / key > < string > 1 < / string > < / dict > < / plist > And save it of course . 6 . Set your app as startup item System Preferences > Users > ...
It <URL> the AppleScript is run within Quicksilver 's process ( depending on how you run it ) . If that 's the case , you 'd need to relaunch Quicksilver . If it 's not completely frozen , you can do this quickly with ⌃ ⌘ Q . It might also be possible to set some kind of timeout in the script to prevent it from hanging indefinitely .
May be able just create a simlink to the / User directory . To do this , open up Terminal and enter : You 'll want to move your original Users folder out of the way ( rename it or move it or whatever ) . * Where [ SeperateDrivePath ] is the path to your volume just underneath the cloned / Users folder . Probably something like / Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name / . In this case , your clones / Users should exist at/Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name/Users .
Yes , you can achieve your desired behavior without disabling Messages on your Mac . If you turn off notifications for Messages from within System Preferences , you will still receive the messages , but will not be notified that they came in . You can turn notifications off on the following screen . Simply click on " None " , and deselect all the checkboxes , as illustrated below :
Awesome , I figured it out . Run this command , which rebuilds LaunchServices : And everything should be back to good ! Immediately after running , the App Store allowed me to re-purchase the app . Source : <URL>
So let 's go through the options here : No effect . <URL> It auto hides . <URL> Yup , auto hides too . <URL> Guess what ? : / While searching around though , I found a great deal of people asking how they force the bar to autohide . It 's a <URL> in editorials as well , and seems to be the one constant of all the Safari extensions . After an extensive search - what you 're looking for does not exist at this time :( Hardly the first time Apple has taken away control from a user , either ... Tl ; dr : Apologies , but it 's time to let it go - it 's gone . <URL> HOWEVER ... One of the extensions I found is open source and appears to be easily editable . Specifically , <URL> , and by removing a line of JS , I can force the bar to stay on the screen , and replace it with blank text ( so it looks correctly ) . Here 's the thing , it 's still just an overlay on top of the page , it 's not a part of the safari " window " as the old status bar could be , and does n't show all of the same information either . <URL> <URL> . You can see the <URL> as well . Installing this requires jumping through an extra hoop since I 'm not a registered Apple dev , so here 's what you need to do . Download and extract the package . In Safari , go to Preferences - > Advanced Check the " Show Develop menu in menu bar " box In the newly added menu bar item , click on " Show Extension Builder " Click on the plus sign in the bottom left of the new window and hit " Add extension " Navigate to where you unzipped the . safariextension folder Accept the security warning Reload any open webpages Usual disclaimers apply , your mileage may vary , void where prohibited , kids eat free , etc. .
end question
start question
Is there an 802.11 ac Airport Extreme card available for older Mac Pro machines ?
The Apple Broadcom BCM94331CD adapter will add 802.11 a/b/g / n with Bluetooth 4.0 to an older Mac Pro , while the Apple Broadcom BCM94360CD adapter will enable 802.11 a/b/g / n/ac support ( the primary difference between the two adapters being 802.11 ac ) . You can easily DIY by finding suitable parts on eBay or Amazon and following instructions on forum sites such as <URL> and <URL> . If you 're running Yosemite and want to take advantage of Continuity , you 'd then just need to buy a third-party Bluetooth 4.0 USB dongle that utilizes the Broadcom BCM20702 chipset ( e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) . A far easier -- albeit more expensive option -- is to install an aftermarket Wi-Fi + Bluetooth " upgrade kit " from either <URL> or <URL> , which will add 802.11 a/b/g / n/ac and enable Bluetooth 4.0 LE . With the necessary hardware requirements met for Continuity , you could then use the <URL> to enable support for your particular Mac model . You 'll then get full native support for all of the new features in OS X 10.10 Yosemite that are part of <URL> , including Handoff , Instant Hotspot and the new AirDrop .
There is a command line wireless utility called , but it is not in the user $ PATH to be able to call it without remembering where it is . so to make it available at the line , and put it where it really belongs , in Terminal : And when calling it , gives great info about the wireless network you 're connected to : for syntax and quick help : outputs what looks like a man page , for examples and full help , call command without arguments :
The iPod Touch has a lithium-ion battery , which really does not need to be conditioned like the older battery technologies did . In fact , completely discharging a lithium-ion battery too often can severely shorten its life , so I would n't recommend doing a full discharge too often . And I would n't recommend using something that goes outside the normal voltage range of the battery either . Discharging occasionally , perhaps once every 30 charges , can help to calibrate the battery so that it can given a better indication of run-time . Apple <URL> discharging completely about once a month . Lithium-ion has a limited life-span anyway , typically 300-500 cycles ; and they degrade over time too . How quickly they degrade depends on how hot they 've been stored . ( See <URL> for more information on this )
The constraint is be the number of ports available on your USB hub . Any connected hard drives should appear in Mac OS X. Use a self-powered usb hub and connect hard drives your hub . Only then will multiple external drives have enough power to run . Also see store.apple.com for <URL> .
Apparently , it 's coming soon to Eye-Fi cards , and they will have firmware upgrades for all existing cards . . <URL>
Yes its possible . The limitations that need to be over came are three fold . There are two things that prevent 10.8 from installing on a MacPro 1,1 . The first is the lack of EFI64 . Mountain Lion as has no support for 32bit kernel and extensions so it will not boot . This is true of many early Intel macs . The other thing is that checks are made by the installer ; against a supported machines list . If your mac is n't on the list , it refuses to install . It 's important to note that an upgraded graphics card is virtually essential . The stock 7300 GT is n't supported and will cause Kernel Pannic . I do n't think the X1900-xt is either , my 8800GT did odd things on DP1 but may be OK on newer builds . Ideally Id try and source a HD5770 or other newer card . Solutions : New compatible graphics card will need to be obtained . The first issue can be dealt with by using the Chameleon bootloader . Chameleon will emulate EFI64 and therefore load 10.8 . Customization of the 10.8 Installer by adding your machine kind back onto the list of supported machines . Sources : <URL> <URL>
So far as I know there is n't a nice automated way to provide the benefits of System Restore as it is implemented on Windows . For all its utility for Windows users , though , System Restore ca n't be used to backup/restore individual files &amp; whatnot at the whim of the user - that requires a separate backup system . Time Machine on OS X , on the other hand , can provide for the backup/restore of deleted documents , folders , etc , and can be used to restore an entire hard drive in the event of a crashed or munged drive . I 've used this function a few times , twice on a very important server , and once on my own machine , with great success . My Mom 's new Lion iMac is setup with an inexpensive external 500 GB USB hard drive and Time Machine is running like clockwork . My Mom knows to check the Time Machine menu every day to make sure it is backing up . She 's even started to recover files on her own now , without needing to call Tech Support ( me ) . Time Machine was also very helpful in migrating her creaky Leopard Mac mini to the new iMac a few months ago . Instead of hooking the old &amp; new Macs together via Ethernet cable , I simply ran a Time Machine backup on the old machine , shut it down , connected the USB drive to the new iMac , and the Migration Assistant app took care of the rest . Her new iMac was up and running in a little more than an hour . A non-Time Machine solution would be using Carbon Copy Cloner or SuperDuper ! to back up the Mac to an external hard drive on a regular basis . This would allow for a mass restore of the drive 's contents . Another non-Time Machine solution would be to boot from the System Install DVD ( pre-Lion ) or an bootable external HD ( Lion &amp; after ) and create a restorable disk image . After converting the image to ASR format , Disk Utility can be used to restore the disk image .
If you want to measure the speed ( bandwidth ) between your iPad and your PC , take a look at . It is available for computers and there are versions on the App Store for iOS too ( the one I use seems to have gone away , but searching the App Store for " iperf " reveals several possible options ) . You run an iperf server at one end ( eg the PC ) , and a client at the other ( eg the iPad ) . It runs for a configurable amount of time ( I think the default is 1 minute ) , and then tells you how much data it managed to transfer . Compared to eg copying a file , the figures you get this way are a more accurate reflection of the available network speed , because copying a file requires retrieving the data from a hard drive , writing it at the other end , sending acknowledgements , the overhead of the file transfer protocol etc. . . iPerf is simpler than that : it just transfers data as fast as it can .
Why not use Disk Utility to write zeroes or if you have more time , interest in being sure it works repeatable , set it to write more passes of random data . The drive will report IO errors in the system.log if there are hardware errors . If you have an SSD or want a tool to read back the random bits to ensure everything not only wrote properly , but can be read back with perfect fidelity , see the free tool <URL> written by <URL> . You might also like to read over <URL>
Technically the format you want is called composite video , so you might have better luck searching for a HDMI to Composite converter . RCA is just the name of the connector . For example : <URL>
I use a dry microfiber cloth on my screen . I found them in a two-pack of washcloth-sized at Dollar General . If you want a cleaning solution , the Apple Store folks , at least in Madison WI , fully endorse iKlean and use it on their display models every night . I ca n't vouch because I have n't used it , but I figure Apple knows Apple well .
DynDNS does support <URL> ( mDNS ) , which provides the ability to do dynamic DNS and much more . They even have <URL> for setting it up with an Airport Device . It will cost you a $ 30/yr standard account , though .
Selecting " MS-DOS ( FAT ) " will automatically format as FAT16 or FAT32 depending on the target 's size .
<URL> supports offline reading of your RSS feed . It will fetch and cache a configurable amount of feed history for you to peruse while you are n't connected to the web . And it 'll look darn good while doing it . ( Can you tell I 'm a fan ? )
Well , the Mac Pro went through quite a long period of stagnancy recently , which is likely the cause of the disparity you see between the iMac and Mac Pro in terms of software compatibility . According to the <URL> , the Mac Pro has by far the largest average time between refreshes ( 449 days ) , so new models are sparse . Because of that , it 's a good time to buy , if that 's what you 're asking . Though there could be a minor spec bump or price drop at any time ( those are more or less unpredictable from afar ) , it 's not worth the risk of waiting for one . The December 2013 update is likely the only major refresh we 'll see for quite a while . As far as average lifetime goes , the Early 2008 Mac Pro shipped with OS X Leopard ( 10.5 ) , and is still supported in Yosemite ( 10.10 ) , so it has received five software updates so far ( and there could still be more ) . Based on that , you could expect software compatibility to last for upwards of 6 years on a Mac Pro bought today , if that 's how you define lifetime . However , the Mac will of course function on old software for <URL> .
I found two : <URL> It is an open source free , video editing software , effects , and compositing suite . When I used it several months back , it was very unintuitive and I could n't figure out how to use it . However , there are <URL> now . <URL> Kdenlive is an open source , multi track video editor released under the GNU Public Licence . ( The screenshot is of Kdenlive running on Windows , but it is available for the Mac through <URL> )
Yes , you can . The system , cache , or any hardware-specific data such as drivers are not backed up . Even if they were , any installation of OS X contains the necessary drivers for any supported Mac model by that version of the system ( with the exception of printer drivers IIRC , which are not included to save space and will be downloaded ) .
Well , I bought one and tried . AirPort Utility 5.6.1 complains about incompatible hardware and missing parameters , but apart from that it works :) It 's possible to configure the syslog server .
With some care it can be done safely . It depends by and large on what kind of loads you 're placing on the MacBook when it 's being used like this . The MacBook Pro 's ventilation operates optimally with the lid open . Closing the lid restricts airflow out of the vents that run along the inside of the hinge on the laptop as seen here : <URL> When the lid is closed , there 's a slight gap along the bottom that 's used as an exit route for the hot air coming out of those vents as seen here : <URL> If you 're closing the lid , you should ensure that the entirety of this exit path along the bottom of the laptop is free from obstructions . That means not placing the bottom of laptop on a flat surface . Generally a vertical stand like this is employed if you want to operate the laptop with the lid closed and ensure ventilation remains adequate : <URL> You should monitor the temperature sensors of your laptop to ensure your workloads do n't push the unit beyond normal operating temperatures when you 're using it with the lid close . You can use something like <URL> to keep an eye on critical , system operating parameters such as CPU use and the various temperature sensors in your MacBook to make sure they stay within their safe operating limits .
You may already know this , but there is an apple repair extension for these kind of issues now . They 'll fix it for free . <URL>
end question
start question
How can I duplicate myself in a movie ( using iMovie ) ?
There are some good tutorials on this on Youtube <URL> and <URL> . The problem in both of these examples is the obvious lines where you can see the contrast and lightness changes . However if you had either Adobe Premiere Elements or Adobe After effects this effect is a lot easier , and more professional <URL> you can find those tutorials <URL> and <URL> Have a rummage around the <URL> for good tutorials
Do not download third-party apps from untrusted sources . In System Preferences , Set : Security &amp; Privacy -- > General -- > Allow apps downloaded from : to either Mac App Store or Mac App Store and identified developers So far it seems this is only transferable from a computer to device over a usb to iTunes connection , which means the computer must be infected with one of these third party apps . Also seems pretty limited to China and its third party app store for now . <URL> <URL>
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
there is a commandline app called that you have to run as root . for example will give you the list of apps that are set to update . You can then run This wo n't let you install a new application that you have n't already downloaded though .
LittleSnapper keeps it 's images in special library file , so the only way to copy images is to do the long way that you described . I 'd recommend you get on the LittleSnapper discussion board over at RealMac to add your voice to the group of users who 'd also like to get at their images in a more flexible way . <URL>
According to @ <URL> hint I find what was my problem I must un check Full-screen mode in X11 Preferences .
Have you tried <URL> ? It 's an app that displays the current iTunes song lyrics on the desktop . It does display a dock icon . You can also adjust font , size , position , color , shadow , etc. . There are no individual lyric files that are stored on your computer . The lyric information is embedded in the id3 tag of each song file . There is an app called <URL> that will batch extract song lyrics into individual text files .
<URL> Because Twitter offers to update your status via SMS , there is an easy workaround . Create new Contact Assign as first name : Twitter Assign phone number : 40404 ( this number is for United States residents ) Now you can update your Twitter status via Siri : Tell Twitter Hello World . Enable SMS for Twitter In order for the workaround to work , you need to enable the SMS feature for Twitter first . You can do this either online by editing your profile on twitter.com or send the text message to 40404 ( for US residents only ! ) . Then follow the instructions in the reply . However , the latter way is more complicated . International Twitter SMS codes You can get a full list of the world-wide twitter <URL> . Some countries or providers do not support short codes . You have to use <URL> instead . Fees may apply :
There 's no official way to achieve this . You have to jailbreak your iPad and use a software like <URL> ( works on all iDevices ) to do this .
Have you tried exporting the slideshow without the audio , then re-adding the audio manually in iMovie ? This way , you can make sure they both end at the same time by cutting the audio out early . Then , you can burn that to DVD .
In app purchases do fall under the same rule , however if your Apple ID is signed into , say a family computer , he could approve it himself on that device .
Two options : ( 1 ) using <URL> ( formerly KeyRemap4Macbook ) which you already have installed , or ( 2 ) using <URL> which allows more flexible remapping . Maybe you have an older version without this capability , but update to the latest version of Karabiner and you will see an " F10 to Volume Mute " remap option . <URL> For this problem , BetterTouchTool also works well . Although it 's primarily focused on mapping trackpad gestures to various actions , it also allows remapping of keyboard keys . This is a bit more flexible than Karabiner for this example , since it does n't require the exact preset you want to already exist . <URL>
NTFS-3G from macports works perfectly fine . Check this detailed and well-written instruction : <URL>
This is addressed several times on the Apple Forums . It is a common problem . I will list a few of the answers that have worked for others . Before starting , do the obligatory iPad reboot . 1 ) From the iPad desktop click the stalled app . It will either restart the update process or report the " update failed " . If it fails you will then be able to restart the update from within iPads App updater . 2 ) If you have a desktop Mac , from iTunes go to menu Store > Check for Available Downloads . This should download the updated App to your iTunes . Then re-sync with your iPad . 3 ) Delete the app from your iPad then reinstall . I found that option 1 worked flawlessly for me .
When you insert a USB drive it automatically gets mounted . You can see the name of the device using the mount command : Making the simplifying assumption that you only have one usb drive mounted at a time and it is always formatted with windows , you can then rename the drive like this : now when you look at the mount output , the name is changed : You may need to adjust the search parameters based on different assumptions , but this is the general idea .
Here 's what worked for me : use to find the small Microsoft Reserved partition you 're trying to delete but disk utility ( or the command-line equivalent ) wo n't allow . Let 's say it 's on disk 99 partition 400 ( mine was on disk 0 partition 4 ) The above reformats the partition to journaled HFS + and once you 've done that you can just simply delete it ( and then resize etc. as you wish ) . Note : I 've used / dev/disk99s400 because that should not ever work , you have to replace those with the right disk and partition . WARNING : Destructive , high risk . ALWAYS do a full back up first before screwing with partitions . ALWAYS .
There are some good tutorials on this on Youtube <URL> and <URL> . The problem in both of these examples is the obvious lines where you can see the contrast and lightness changes . However if you had either Adobe Premiere Elements or Adobe After effects this effect is a lot easier , and more professional <URL> you can find those tutorials <URL> and <URL> Have a rummage around the <URL> for good tutorials
Open the Uploadr app and click the about tab . Then click on the logo to make a hidden menu appear : <URL> Click " Enable Video Upload " and that 's it ! You can now upload videos in the formats that Flickr supports . Reference : <URL>
All drives ( internal , external and networked ) get mounted in . You should see a folder there with the name of your USB drive as it appears on your desktop or in the Finder .
I 'm from the same boat ; the best native keyboard-only I 've found is CTRL-DOWN-Arrow ; ( you enter app expose ) DOWN-arrow ; ( if there are any minimized windows , this 'll put a cursor on one ) LEFT-arrow/RIGHT-arrow ( to select from multiple minimized windows ) or hold OPT if you want all of them restored . RETURN alternative step1 : getting into app expose before you 've alt-cmd ' ed to an app : with CMD still held down , ( the task switcher is visible ) tap DOWN , or UP , or 1 ( now in app expose ) The above shows only one app 's minimized windows at a time ; for selecting from any minimized window regardless of app , CTRL-F3 moves focus to the dock , and you can arrow left to get to the minimized list . if your CTRL-F3 instead shows you the app-expose , try FN-CTRL-F3 . ( In my settings/keyboard , I 've flagged " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " ) Some apps have specific alternatives ; I use Terminal 's CMD-window_number , which unminimizes and focuses that window .
end question
start question
Lost my Macbook pro with retina display . How do I find out if Find My iDevice is enabled on it ?
If you can see your MacBook Pro with Retina Display in iCloud , it has been enabled . The reason it is showing as offline is because it is either ( 1 ) shut down and not connected to internet , or ( 2 ) the device has , somehow , already been wiped , with the first option being much more likely in this situation . Computers are particularly vulnerable to this type of situation because they do n't have a constant data connection like an iPhone , or data-enabled iPad , often would . The user must boot the laptop and connect to a wifi before Find My Mac will know anything about it 's where-abouts or be able to perform any actions . The first , and main thing to do is to select the the " Lock " , or " Erase " option . If it is a neighborhood kid and you think some noise might provide truth , you could always do the play sound feature . This plays an alert at maximum volume . You should probably use this sparingly , and only activate it , for example , if you are within earshot of it . Chances are the user could take quick actions to dampen the sound . As for the " Lock " , or " Erase " option , it will do this as soon as the computer is connected to the internet . Obviously , if they never connect the computer to the internet before wiping it , then the Lock feature wo n't do any good , but at least if they do , it will help you . Good news for you is you <URL> it with Find my Mac . <URL> And yes , you will get an email when any action occurs on your Mac - such as it being locked or found .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
I doubt it , and even if they did , you should not rely on it . I assume you are concerned about the case where your laptop gets stolen ; you want to protect your data . In that regard , the firmware password is utterly useless , the thief could just pull the drive out and access your data anyway . I suggest you look into something like <URL> instead .
If you can see your MacBook Pro with Retina Display in iCloud , it has been enabled . The reason it is showing as offline is because it is either ( 1 ) shut down and not connected to internet , or ( 2 ) the device has , somehow , already been wiped , with the first option being much more likely in this situation . Computers are particularly vulnerable to this type of situation because they do n't have a constant data connection like an iPhone , or data-enabled iPad , often would . The user must boot the laptop and connect to a wifi before Find My Mac will know anything about it 's where-abouts or be able to perform any actions . The first , and main thing to do is to select the the " Lock " , or " Erase " option . If it is a neighborhood kid and you think some noise might provide truth , you could always do the play sound feature . This plays an alert at maximum volume . You should probably use this sparingly , and only activate it , for example , if you are within earshot of it . Chances are the user could take quick actions to dampen the sound . As for the " Lock " , or " Erase " option , it will do this as soon as the computer is connected to the internet . Obviously , if they never connect the computer to the internet before wiping it , then the Lock feature wo n't do any good , but at least if they do , it will help you . Good news for you is you <URL> it with Find my Mac . <URL> And yes , you will get an email when any action occurs on your Mac - such as it being locked or found .
Yes - they are <URL> . The machine will shut itself off if it ever exceeds the safe operating temperature ( unless of course there are multiple failures in the sensors ) . You can measure the battery temp - and may reduce the useful life of the battery if the temperature is always higher ( and substantially higher on the order of 10 to 30 degrees F ) for extended always on periods . You may never need a new battery with the new 5 year / 1000 cycle batteries - so that might not even be a concern . I 'm happy to spend the $ 99 on a new one if I really need one after the normal 3 year coverage has lapsed with Apple Care . Other than the battery - the rest of the electronics is basically immune to heat . The next thing to go might be a blower bearing - but those are far cheaper to have replaced than even a battery .
In iTunes you can simply right click the app in question and choose Get Info . On the summary tab you can see the account used to purchase the app .
Your best bet is Apple 's <URL> . There are also assorted USB ethernet adapters available from various sources ( including <URL> ) , including a few <URL> , but the Thunderbolt one will likely have the best performance , so unless you 're using both Thunderbolt ports already , that 's the better choice .
You should get a mini DisplayPort to VGA adapter ( sometimes referred to as a Thunderbolt to VGA adapter , but it 's the same thing ) . Apple <URL> , but they can be had elsewhere for less , including at my personal favourite , <URL> . You could do HDMI to VGA , but it would require a ( typically bulky ) active adapter . There are some HDMI to VGA adapters that are n't active , but they rely on graphics card support that Macs do n't have . The DisplayPort to VGA adapters are technically active adapters , but for whatever reason they seem to be much more compact than HDMI to VGA ones . There are USB based display adapters , and some of them have VGA output , but I 'd only recommend them for situations where other outputs are n't available . They 're essentially a USB connected graphics card , which means that performance is lacking , and it takes up CPU and memory resources that the built-in outputs do n't . Useful for some situations , but in your case I 'd stay away .
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
Those sensors are no electrical sensors , but pieces of paper that change from white to red when they get wet . There are up to two spots you can look at without opening the device . Have a look inside your headphone jacket and your dock connector . ( use a torch/flashlight as lint or dim light can make these orangish-pink indicators hard to discern ! ) Have a look at <URL> Here 's the diagram for an iPhone 4/4S :
The first option should be the most reliable : Open Settings.app , scroll down and tap on " iTunes &amp; App Stores " . The Apple ID that the device is currently signed into will be at the top of the screen next to " Apple ID " . Alternate methods ( only on iOS 5 or newer ) : Settings.app > iCloud ( under " Account " ) Settings.app > Messages > Send &amp; Receive At ( under " Apple ID " ) Settings.app > Facetime ( under " Apple ID " )
The Other World Computing Blog <URL> the new MacBook Pro 15 " with Retina Display Can Run 3 External Displays : image source : <URL> These resolutions were used : Retina on laptop @ " best for Retina " iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort LG monitor @ 1920 x 1200 via HDMI Quote from the <URL> : This makes the Retina MacBook Pro the first Mac -- other than a tower-based workstation like the Mac Pro -- to natively power four displays simultaneously .
Yes , the device can communicate with Find my iPhone over Wi-Fi . Find my iPhone uses the currently available network connection , regardless of whether that be Wi-Fi or cellular . The GPS is still used to obtain location information along with Wi-Fi data and the location is sent over Wi-Fi to Find my iPhone .
In a Terminal , use the following command : This will output the fully qualified pathnames of files in which the metadata stores used by Spotlight classify it as some type of movie . Example output from a movie taken on my iPhone and transferred to iPhotos on my Mac , one of the lines outputted by <URL> is : " QuickTime movie " , which have a extension was just one of extension types that showed as " $ some_type_of movie " . So you will probably see other file extensions as well .
MacBook 's do n't have the extended keyboard which contains the additional 7 function keys ( F13-F19 ) . They 're only on <URL> ( with numeric keys ) keyboard as presented on this photo :
I would run <URL> on it and then you 'll have some actual statistics to make comparisons with and go from there . I would guess your HDD is the problem .
After some more searching , I found a command-line answer : This will print out an XML plist with values like : If anyone knows an easier/nicer way , though , I 'd love to hear it .
Mac OS X Hints has <URL> : To go back to pre-Lion behaviour enter the following command in Terminal : To undo this change type type the following command or zap the PRAM ( press Cmd + Opt + p + r at power up ) :
You should be able to point the installer at Time Machine during setup . This will make the OS you have on there now largely irrelevant . Just ensure your drive is USB attached , and hold option ⌥ down as you boot , select your installer CD for Snow Leopard , and do it from there . The following <URL> should help Restoring your entire system from a backup If you are restoring a backup made by a Mac to the same Mac With your backup drive connected , start up your Mac from the Lion recovery partition ( Command-R at startup ) or Mac OS X v10 .6 installation disc . Then use the " Restore From Time Machine Backup " utility . Note : If " You ca n't restore this backup because it was created by a different model of Mac " appears when restoring a backup that was made on a different Mac , follow the onscreen instructions .
The headphone jack had a red LED glowing inside , which clued me in that it thought there was an optical cable plugged in . Plugging and unplugging a pair of headphones resolved the problem .
end question
start question
Where 'd my camera app go ?
Finally figured it out . I had an expired set of " AirWatch " MDM profiles on it that were blocking the camera . Removed those and the camera came back !
Live photos use the microphone to record sound as well as video when you take a picture . Look at the camera settings when you open the app to see whether video is going to happen ( or already be happening since it records video from before you press the shutter ) . There appears to be a bug ( that has n't been fixed yet as of iOS 9.3 ) on that hardware that makes iPhone 6S worse than others - it pauses even when you are aware of the video aspects and request a non-live photo and non-video recording setting .
If you have a Mac , connect your iPhone to it . There is a build in app ( from Apple ) called <URL> in your Applications folder . Use it to bulk delete Photos on iPhone .
App Store is divided by countries it is available in and each country 's App Store is a separate entity . For an end-user ( me , you , anyone who buys apps basically ) there is no cross-over between them . If you 're from Finland you 're most likely using Finnish App Store ( possibly with interface in English ) . Only users of the same store will see the reviews posted in it . Reviews are not shared between individual ( country ) stores so it is perfectly fine for reviews to be in country 's native language .
In a sense the basis of your question is in error . While iMovie is saving videos to your camera roll , this is n't using any extra space on your iPhone . That 's why you get the error you 're getting after deleting the files - because that 's where iMovie is trying to access the video from . Basically , what happens is the video is saved to your camera roll , but project specific info is saved within iMovie . Once you have totally finished a project , you can export/share/save the final version and after that you can delete the video you took from your camera roll ( if you want ) . If you like , you can actually prove this to yourself by doing a simple test : Go to Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud usage In the Storage section , tap on Manage Storage Wait for the list of apps to appear ( this may take a while if you have lots of apps ) . Tap on iMovie ( likely to be in your top 10 ) Take a note of how much space is used up by Documents &amp; Data Now go to your actual iMovie app and take a 30s video Go to your Camera roll and try to email this video to yourself You should get a warning saying that this attachment may be too large to email . This message will give you the size of the video . Take a note of this . Cancel the attempt to email the video . Repeat the first 5 steps . You should note that while your iMovie Documents &amp; Data have grown a little , it will not have grown by anywhere near the size of the actual video itself . The reason this has grown is because it 's storing project info , not because it 's storing the video again . Hopefully this little test will put your mind at ease . Do n't forget to delete your test video .
<URL> For all my tracking needs I 've become a fan of Kinetic . Accuracy is good . The customizable screens mean you can tailor the view for the activity . For example : I have a simple screen for when I ride my bike that 's easy to access when I 'm moving fast , versus a more complicated screen I 'll use on hikes . The routes are <URL> in formats that Google Earth and Maps will happily read ( like <URL> ) .
<URL> question over on StackExchange lead me to Apple 's <URL> , specifically , the background section . This lists the activities apps are aloud to run in the background , camera access is not one of them . This would also be a terrible condition for battery life and so it is not surprising that it is not supported . While this does n't guarantee that none of your apps will try to get access to your camera , you can rest assured that if anyone tried to , Apple would reject their app . This also ensures that there 's no API for background camera access , so unless someone has figured out a way to hack non-jail broken iOS at a very low level , we can all sleep safely with only the watchful eye of Siri upon us . Edit : Per my discussion with timothymh below , I realized you may have been asking about if you are still using a given app , having take a picture without switching to a new app . With more interesting reading from <URL> , we find that the camera API wo n't hand you data until a picture is taken or a video completed . Because the camera is n't handled by a daemon , it would be very difficult to be constantly polling the camera for input , even if you found a way past the API to get data without user input . Note I 'm not an Apple developer , but from an official standpoint , it appears what you 're talking about should n't be possible .
According to <URL> and other articles , yes , it does work ! ( And it functions just like any other audio input/output device -- with any application that supports audio in/out . )
Assuming this works the same as on my iPhone 3Gs , you ´ ll want to go into the photo roll ( not show an actual photo ) and then tap the " share " button in the upper right corner ( the one that looks like an arrow pointing out of a square ) - you will then be able to select up to five images and tap on " send " to send them as an e-Mail .
I highly recommend importing your photos at full resolution , on the off chance that you ever want to crop or make a big print or display on a high res screen in the future . With Apple Photos , you can import at full resolution and it will upload the full image to iCloud . Then , under Preferences : iCloud Photo Library select Optimize Mac Storage . Photos will now automatically switch to thumbnails when you start running low on space , and will automatically download the full-res version whenever you need to edit , view or export an image .
No , the iPhone 4S has an 8mp camera . The prior iPhone 4 had a 5mp camera though . But , yes , the older iPad had a much worse camera - less than 1mp . This would seem to show it 's from the iPhone 4 : <URL> Megapixels are n't everything - but the new iPad certainly has the best camera in an iPad so far . The front facing camera is n't that great though , even with the rear one hugely improved .
The Newsstand folder is gone but the apps should still be present just not wrapped in a folder . If you ca n't find them you can still re-download the apps through the App Store . Only apps that are removed to a legal reason ca n't be re-downloaded . Edit : Individual Newsstand apps will now install directly to the Home screen . <URL>
Though Quicktime does not ( and I could n't find a codec plugin to support it ) , <URL> apparently plays AVCHD video files ( . mts ) . There is also a way to use VLC to <URL> .
When you set up your export settings and clicked ' Next ... ' , a standard save sheet appears prompting you for a location to save the file . Wherever you selected as a save location will be wherever the file is . Once exporting is complete , the notification has a Show button which reveals the location in Finder . If you forgot the location and missed the notification , you can still reveal the location . Select the project in the Library viewer under the event where it is located . Show the Share Inspector using the button on the inspector toolbar . Click the reveal arrow next to the shared media , then select Reveal in Finder .
Yes - all your apps will be removed from their respective App Stores if your developer program membership expires . If your Apple Developer Program membership expires , you will still have access to iTunes Connect . However , your apps will no longer be available for download on the App Store and you will not be able to submit new apps or updates . Source : <URL> Attempting to log in to iTunes Connect will show the following message , but all of the services are still accessible .
since software update 3.0 you can select multiple photos copy them and paste it as email body , in iOS you can SHARE it as email .
You can only manually add photos to photostream from iPhoto or Aperture not from the iOS device currently , So you 'd need to sync with iPhoto and manually add to photostream through that .
I looked into it and here is what I found . In Lion the swipe to navigate is grouped in System Preference > Trackpad > More Gestures under the " Swipe between pages " option . Under that option , you get A ) Scroll left or right with two fingers B ) Swipe left or right with three fingers C ) Swipe with two or three fingers Option A is the new navigation method featured in the new Safari during the WWDC keynote . It is the new feature in Lion . You SCROLL left to go FORWARD , right to go BACKWARD . You get the cool page flipping effect with this but developers need to update their code to support this feature . Option B is the original swipe to navigate method used in Snow Leopard after the introduction of the Magic Touch Pad . You SWIPE left to go BACKWARD , right to go FORWARD . Many cool apps support this feature only at this stage . Option C is the best of both world . Try to use it and play around in the new Safari ... it is a bit confusing to navigate with both 2 fingers and 3 fingers swipes in the opposite directions :p
Having the schools certificate is sufficient to deploy the app on the device . After turning off the simulator , or simply unplugging the device from the machine , the application will stay on the device for further use . There is no further configuration that needs to be done . However , you will not be able to deploy the app to the store UNLESS you have the rights to do so ( which most students do not ) .
As far as I know , the only way to do this is to jailbreak and use a Cydia app called <URL> It allows you to configure the behavior of the camera button that appears on the lock screen . You can set any app to be activated by that button . See also the <URL> Settings screen : This hack will probably not work in iOS 5.1 . However , this is unconfirmed . I will update this answer when I do update and jailbreak iOS 5.1 . Besides this hack , there is no other way to change the behavior of the camera button on the lock screen .
end question
start question
How to install WhatsApp on iPad mini ?
WhatsApp Messenger is currently not optimised for iPad , and therefore you will need to search for iPhone apps in the App Store search using the filter at the top .
You can try the install with iPhone Configuration Utility : <URL> <URL>
I ordered a cheap Mini DisplayPort to HDMI cable from eBay ( less than $ 5 , including transport ) and it works perfectly , including sound . The only thing needed is to configure the audio output source to TV instead of the internal speakers ( you only need to do this once ; after that , it will remember the setting and switch automatically once connected to the TV ) . To change the audio source , option click on the speaker icon on the menu bar , go to the Output tab and choose your TV .
Download xcode_3 .2.6 _ and_ios_sdk_4 .3 . dmg ( note - you need a developer account to access this software . I have instead linked to an open-to-the-public <URL> Mount the . dmg file Inside the disk image there is an invisible " Packages " folder . To open it select " Go to folder ... " command from Finder menu bar and digit the path " / Volumes/Xcode and iOS SDK/Packages / " Now double-click " iPhoneSimulatorSDK4_2 . pkg " Click into the destination disk and a button " Select folder ... " will be revealed Click the above button and select your " Developer " folder Install the package , and Restart Xcode . This will install the Simulator 4.2 SDK ( both iPad and iPhone ) inside the folder " / Developer/Platforms/iPhoneSimulator . platform/Developer/SDKs / " Now inside XCode 4.2 you can select this simulator from the menu . Bye .
The built-in iOS keyboard does not support this , but you can add a shortcut from Settings > General > Keyboard . This way you only have to copy/paste once .
Sure . Just make sure it is in a secure position so it does n't fall over . Apple actually has a support page on this : <URL>
always is your home folder ( for instance ) . If ~ / . vim exists , that 's where you 'll find it . Unless you 've used vim before , the folder likely will not already exist , so to create the folder , open Terminal.app and type Assuming you downloaded ColorSamplerPack.zip to your Downloads folder you can then proceed with to unpack the content into the folder . A restart of gvim may be required afterwards . On second thought , the same result can be accomplished by just opening Terminal.app and executing
You can use multi-touch gestures to swipe to the last app you used , in this case will be mail . First make sure Multi-Touch gestures are turned on in the settings panel . Once this feature is on , you can swipe from right to left with four fingers or more to cycle through the apps you last used . If you do not want to use that , you can double tap the home button top bring up the last few apps used .
Indeed , it will let you download the last compatible version if you already have the app in your purchase history . You can add the app to your purchase history using iTunes on your computer , since iTunes is version-agnostic . Once you 've downloaded the app on iTunes , it will be in your purchase history and attempting to download it again on your device should prompt you to accept an older version of the app .
Your wish is my command ! Homebrew Formula : <URL> I 'll try to get the formula merged into homebrew proper sometime this week . In the meantime , you can simply :
You 're five major system updates back from El Capitan , and Apple has made a lot of changes to code , file arrangements , database structures , network connectivity etc. in the meantime . Apple usually does a pretty good job of clearing away the old to make way for the new , but things do slip through . I recently killed a few prefs files from 2007 that Migration Assistant kindly transferred to my 2014 mini . Invisible files and such often gets copied too . iTunes data structures have changed significantly , with loss of artwork or metadata upon upgrade being fairly common . Apple is pretty good , but they 're not infallible . With a jump of that many years , I 'd go for the clean install , followed by thoughtful installation of needed Apps , and manual transfer of docs , pics , music etc. . That way you 'll end up with a thoroughly modern System rather than a System that also contains a hodgepodge of used or unused pieces dating from an earlier decade .
You can create your own recovery disk with <URL> and a blank USB drive that is at least 1 GB . Alternatively , your Mac can boot into <URL> mode in which it downloads an image from Apple 's servers , and it can do this with a damaged recovery partition or even a blank hard drive -- it 's built into the firmware of the system . To access it , boot up while holding Command + R . You can do this over a wireless network that is either unprotected or WPA-secured , or you can use an Ethernet connection . In both cases , your system will need to download OS X from Apple ( the recovery partition does not contain a full OS X. )
Yes it is . <URL> . As long as it is an Intel Mac Mini ( with a minumum of 1gb ram ) you 'll be fine . If its a Power PC Mac Mini then you 'll only be able to install Leopard ( not Snow Leopard )
I believe white one is more succeptible than black one . As far as the case , I picked up a clear case on ebay ( shipped from Jersey ) to go with my smart cover for $ 3.98 and it is pretty thin , maybe adds 2mm to the overall thickness . Just something to look at .
Books are managed by the OS X application iBooks . You have to use iBooks in order to add books to your library . There is no Books section in your iTunes library where you can drag files to . So just launch iBooks and drag files into the application window , and the books section in the synchronize tab will update immediately . Then , synchronize your device . Also , if you try to add PDF files using File - > Add to Library , iTunes seems add those files as sound files , and they end up in the Music section of your Library , but wo n't be copied to your iOS device as PDF files . Here is thread on <URL> , and the answer that pointed me to the right direction : StumbleSally Midwest - US Re : how to upload pdf to ipad Mar 7 , 2014 6:56 PM ( in response to dawnrber ) With the recent update to iTunes ( I 'm now on iTunes 11.1.5 ) , the previous directions for uploading an PDF and syncing it with iBooks did n't work for me because iBooks is now a separate program at least on Macs . Maybe iBooks has been separate for a while , but anyway , here 's what I had to do : Start iBooks . Drag the PDF from my desktop to iBooks . Start iTunes . Plug in my iPad . Stop the auto-sync/back up process in the center window by pressing on the small " X " ( yours may not be set to auto sync when plugged in ) . Select my iPad name in the left column . Select Books from the menu bar just under the iTunes center window ( you can skip this step if you want to sync all of your books ) . Select the checkbox for the PDF ( s ) you want to sync ( skip if you 're syncing all books ) . Select the Sync button in the lower right . Once synced , go to iBooks on your iPad and in the Library , select Collections . Select PDFs . You should now see all of the PDFs you synced .
From a few minutes of searching , it looks like Ubuntu 11.04 would be a good fit and match most of your requests , and what you were looking to use as well . 64bit would be needed to reach more than 4GB of RAM . And there is a 64 bit version , although ( to me ) confusingly named AMD64 . <URL> . There are also Magic Trackpad drivers available , and a good writeup available on the <URL> . I also found a good site <URL> . This should be rather similar to your instal . Finally , in most cases , choosing the right Linux distro is also a feel and how you like the install . But in accordance with your list of support , it looks like Ubuntu will cover this .
I think you might be talking about the Notification Center . Does it look like the pictures in this <URL> page ? If so , go to Settings - > Notifications - > Calendar , and turn off ' Notification Centre ' .
The installation disk coming with a computer is for that computer model only , and I would not expect this to work . If your MacBook runs 10.5 you are eligible for the 10.6 upgrade for $ 29 . I can highly recommend it , if nothing else , for the fixes in Time Machine .
It 's not clear if you are looking to evaluate things or make a permanent move , but there is a free solution to evaluate the software as long as you meet the terms for an evaluation license from Microsoft . <URL> and run it to make a default Windows 8 container Register for or log in to <URL> <URL> to your Mac Set that Windows ISO disk image file as the file in the " Optical disk " of the virtual machine by using the Virtual Media Manager window ( Command-D ) Start up the Windows 8 container ( it will confirm you are using the " Optical disk " to start the machine Progress through the agreements and start buttons until this screen : Do not choose the default Upgrade since you have nothing on this " new PC " . Choose Custom : Install Windows only ( advanced ) Choose the rest of the settings as you please for making your account tied into the Windows Live email and you should be up and running within 10 minutes and a couple reboots of the software " PC " . Other than learning how VirtualBox allocates the keyboard and mouse , you should have 90 days to experiment with the new Windows OS and decide if you want to dive in with BootCamp or a commercial VM solution such as <URL> or <URL> .
WhatsApp Messenger is currently not optimised for iPad , and therefore you will need to search for iPhone apps in the App Store search using the filter at the top .
end question
start question
Why mouse zoom in , out not working on icloud.com find my iphon ?
I suggest you use the + / - buttons on the upper left . At the time of posting , there is no mouse-input way to zoom the map in or out . I tested it on Safari on a Mac with Yosemite ( 10.10 ) .
It could just be bonjour or some other background network process or daemon communicating . You do n't have to be explicitly browsing the web to be using network traffic Bonjour - Is a set of networking protocols to allow different machines to see each other with zero configuration . Daemon - Is just a process that runs unattended in the background . Several hundred bytes is a tiny amount of traffic , it 's nothing significant . If you would like to monitor which ports are open , use " netstat " at the terminal
When the phone operating system is off , the hardware still remains sensitive to the introduction of charging power to the 30 pin dock connector . Not only does this help in cases where the OS has frozen and run down the battery past the point where available voltage can even run the system ( including the charging circuitry ) but it also helps in the more common case of " my phone is dead " and I 'd like it back without having to press buttons . Depending on how long the battery self-discharged after crossing the " empty " line , it may need tens of seconds or even minutes of charging to get back to the minimum viable voltage . At that point , the sleep/wake button can become effective again for starting the OS . You can of course plug in the power and then shut off the phone to bypass this behavior . The charging circuitry runs whether the OS is running or not , and that circuitry is what kicks the OS to start when it senses a connection event on the 30 pin connector and the OS is not currently running .
<URL> ... allows to " easily set one zoom level for all websites and have it remembered . " I 'm using it in Safari 5.1.7 . You can download it from <URL> or <URL> .
Thankfully , you can still disable the trackpad in OS X Lion . Open System Preferences , click on Universal Access , select Mouse &amp; Trackpad and click on Trackpad Options ... at the bottom . Tick the checkbox " Ignore built-in trackpad when mouse or wireless trackpad is present " .
This is not possible , nor was it possible with Mobile Me . Particularly irritating when a number of people share an iPad and do n't want to enable full email for each other for example . I 'm afraid there is no way around it , unless perhaps you can download a different browser from the App Store that will enable you to change your user agent string to trick the website into thinking you are using Firefox or something that is n't mobile safari .
It look like <URL> who is fighting this issue . That guy uses the same router ( Linksys WRT54GL ) as I do and just switched the WLAN channel to solve the problem . This does also solve the problem for me .
Yes , the device can communicate with Find my iPhone over Wi-Fi . Find my iPhone uses the currently available network connection , regardless of whether that be Wi-Fi or cellular . The GPS is still used to obtain location information along with Wi-Fi data and the location is sent over Wi-Fi to Find my iPhone .
I tried some development to a remote Mac once . It was a terrible experience . Even over a LAN , the latency of the display update speed was maddening in what should be an instant-feedback development UI . You could maybe try using virtual machines on the Mac Mini ( I do n't know how this would affect licensing , you 'd probably have to buy another OSX per virtual machine ) which would get around not being able to run more than one iOS Simulator as mentioned in the previous answer ) . While Xcode is a bit of a resource hog I think you could get away with it if its just two users . I agree that a Mac Mini per developer is the sanest solution for your wallet and the kindest one for your developers though .
After some more searching , I found a command-line answer : This will print out an XML plist with values like : If anyone knows an easier/nicer way , though , I 'd love to hear it .
I think you might be talking about the Notification Center . Does it look like the pictures in this <URL> page ? If so , go to Settings - > Notifications - > Calendar , and turn off ' Notification Centre ' .
This can be caused by the default sound settings being changed . If you go to System Preferences -- > Sound -- > " Sound Effects " you will see a pull down list labeled Play sound effects through ... On my machine there was the following listed : Internal Speakers and my monitor . For some reason after the OS upgrade my monitor ( and HDMI ) was selected instead of internal speakers . Switching to Internal Speakers fixed this . You should select the appropriate item for your setup . Also , you can go to the Output and Input tabs and verify that the correct item is selected as well . See this picture for additional information :
OS X has a bit of mouse input lag and acceleration . You can fix this by installing <URL> . It works great for me in CS : GO . You can enable and disable it separately for the mouse and trackpad from the preference pane .
Last night , I did a <URL> about the issue , telling them the above . They confirmed that those were the steps that they would have advised . They told me to phone their support line ( 0800 107 6285 , 08:00 -- 19:45 Monday -- Sunday in the UK ) , and ask for " multimedia " support . However , this morning , my purchased TV shows were suddenly showing up again , I guess about five days after they disappeared .
This is intentional . Most websites are n't designed for retina displays and only have 1x assets . If these 1x assets were drawn at native resolution on a retina display , they would appear at one quarter the size ( half the height , half the width ) . That would obviously be impractical : it would be like browsing the web with your browser 's zoom level set to 25 % . To get around this , the browser simply draws everything at 2x ( retina ) by default and then upscales any 1x assets to match . This way , websites appear at the same physical size on a retina display as they do on a non-retina display .
It is possible you have an email account with " Notes " enabled on your iPhone , but do n't have the same account set up on your Mac . On your iPhone , in the Notes listing , tap " Accounts " in the upper left corner . Mentally review those accounts . On your Mac , click the Navigation icon that shows two lists next to a box , and makes sure the accounts are the same . If the accounts are n't the same , setup the missing accounts on your Mac in Mail Preferences . Also , if you have an Note " Account " on your iPhone that is named something like " On my iPhone " , transfer those notes to an account that syncs . You can accomplish that by , tapping the Share icon in the note , tap " Copy " , tap " Notes " to view your list of notes , tap " Accounts " , tap an account that will sync to your Mac , tap the " + " icon , tap and hold , paste the note that . ( Hopefully you do n't have too many notes that need that action ) .
I think I have figured this out ( EDIT : Confirmed - this was the problem ) . ctrl + F1 apparently turns keyboard access on/off , which disables the other shortcuts . So I have now disabled this shortcut and hopefully the others will no longer get accidentally disabled . If this happens to you , try ctrl + F1 to re-enable . Also you can disable this in : System Preferences Keyboard Keyboard &amp; Text Input
It 's in VoiceOver mode ( an accessibility feature ) . I do n't have an iPod nano , but on iOS , under General , there 's an Accessibility menu where you can turn it off .
It must be about the batteries but for what I 've experienced so far it 's not about energy , but about their length , at a very slight scale . Since two days I had this problem again - it occured like almost 10 times this morning . So I removed the battery cover , and put a flat piece of folded paper towel upon the batteries , in a way that when I put the cover back again , it is slightly bent , just what it needs to ensure a firm pressure on the batteries , so they wo n't move at all . My conclusion is : problem solved . tl ; dr : you can fix Apple 's 80 $ mouse with 2 sheets of toilet paper
Click on the Sales and Trends section , and your vendor ID will be displayed in the upper-left corner next to your developer name . It should start with an 8 . ( Source : <URL> )
end question
start question
How do I AirPlay mirror my iPhone screen to my MacBook Pro ?
If your devices have OS X Yosemite and iOS 8 or anything newer , <URL> Connect your iPhone , iPad or iPod touch to your Mac via a Lightning Cable . Open QuickTime on your Mac , and select File > New Movie Recording . A recording window will appear . Click the arrow next to the Record button , and select your iPhone from the dropdown menu that appears . Click the Record button and go about your business on your iPhone . Once you 're done , click the Stop button and save the video .
Depends a lot on what file formats you 've got and what sort of quality you 're expecting . If your library is mostly h. 264 format ( typically mp4 , m4v , and most mkv files ) then the Apple TV should work pretty well for you . Anything in an mkv container will need to be converted to an mp4/m4v container , but that can be done losslessly most of the time ( i.e. no transcoding of video , just extracting the component streams and muxing them into an mp4 container - you may need to transcode the audio , but that 's easy and quick to do ) . If you have a lot of non-h .264 stuff ( i.e. anything in . avi , DIVX , etc. ) , you 'll need to transcode it , which means losing some quality and can use up a fair bit of CPU power . You can transcode ahead of time using a tool like <URL> , or you can try transcoding on-the-fly , which requires less planning ahead , but for HD files you 'll need a pretty beefy CPU , and the process is pretty haphazard . You can view the steps for doing that in my answer to <URL> Transcoding ahead of time also has the advantage of being able to use iTunes as a library , so you can access the files directly from the Apple TV . This applies to other files as well - if you can get them in iTunes compatible format ( basically any mp4/m4v as above ) , your life will be a lot easier , as you can access them directly from the Apple TV , rather than going to your computer and streaming them to the Apple TV . Finally , if you were n't aware of this already , you will need a computer running iTunes on at all times you want to access your library , unless you 're playing files from the iTunes Store or Netflix .
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
On your iPhone : Open the app Go to - > Under the section , wait till it shows the list of apps Click on the app you 're interested in to see the App Version , the App Size and the amount of data it has stored on the device . This works only for third party apps . The Apple provided stock apps will not show this information .
" I would like to know if hard drive access speed is a bottleneck to my system currently . " Of course ! There are two aspects to a disk storage system : Bus speed Storage medium speed On ANY given bus , e.g. , SATA , SATA2 , SATA3 , a mechanical HDD will be an order of magnitude slower than an SSD for a given link speed . The secret is to always use an SSD that features at minimum the same link speed as the disk controller . It can be of benefit , however , to use an SSD ( or HDD if you 're financially challenged ) that features a faster link speed than its host . For example , I 'm using a Crucial M500 960 GB SSD in my MacBook4 ,1 . The SSD is a SATA 3 , 6 Gb/s drive , whereas the MacBook has a SATA 1.5 Gb/sec controller . The drive performance is marginally ( ! ) better due to its higher internal processing speeds than would be a 1.5 Gb/sec SATA SSD on the same system . Mechanical hard disks are painfully slow compared to their SSD counterparts . In ANY computer system , the HDD and its attendant controller will be the biggest bottleneck . As such , to ensure best performance , you should use the fastest storage medium possible .
There 's no direct way to do it , unless you happen to own two Apple Thunderbolt displays you can daisy chain . What most people do is purchase a USB video adapter like a DisplayLink device . Performance and OS X support can be spotty but you might find something that 'll work well , especially if you can get something with USB 3.0 support . There are <URL> <URL> <URL> in the sidebar -- > that have more details on this .
Having a second hard drive will certainly decrease battery life by a noticeable amount . Behind the CPU and LCD , the hard drive is the largest drain on battery . A word of caution : RAID 0 is almost never a good idea , unless you 'll be doing backups constantly and do n't mind being totally down if a drive fails . You 'll get better performance from an SSD and you 'll be able to keep your optical drive .
It 's unlikely they will actually damage your MacBook Pro by delivering too much power to it . But there are many cautionary tales to be found on the internet of third party chargers overheating , and occasionally catching fire or exploding . Technically , using a non-Apple charger without Apple 's written permission may also void your warranty if anything did go wrong . Personally , I would n't risk it .
If you can see your MacBook Pro with Retina Display in iCloud , it has been enabled . The reason it is showing as offline is because it is either ( 1 ) shut down and not connected to internet , or ( 2 ) the device has , somehow , already been wiped , with the first option being much more likely in this situation . Computers are particularly vulnerable to this type of situation because they do n't have a constant data connection like an iPhone , or data-enabled iPad , often would . The user must boot the laptop and connect to a wifi before Find My Mac will know anything about it 's where-abouts or be able to perform any actions . The first , and main thing to do is to select the the " Lock " , or " Erase " option . If it is a neighborhood kid and you think some noise might provide truth , you could always do the play sound feature . This plays an alert at maximum volume . You should probably use this sparingly , and only activate it , for example , if you are within earshot of it . Chances are the user could take quick actions to dampen the sound . As for the " Lock " , or " Erase " option , it will do this as soon as the computer is connected to the internet . Obviously , if they never connect the computer to the internet before wiping it , then the Lock feature wo n't do any good , but at least if they do , it will help you . Good news for you is you <URL> it with Find my Mac . <URL> And yes , you will get an email when any action occurs on your Mac - such as it being locked or found .
It is possible you have an email account with " Notes " enabled on your iPhone , but do n't have the same account set up on your Mac . On your iPhone , in the Notes listing , tap " Accounts " in the upper left corner . Mentally review those accounts . On your Mac , click the Navigation icon that shows two lists next to a box , and makes sure the accounts are the same . If the accounts are n't the same , setup the missing accounts on your Mac in Mail Preferences . Also , if you have an Note " Account " on your iPhone that is named something like " On my iPhone " , transfer those notes to an account that syncs . You can accomplish that by , tapping the Share icon in the note , tap " Copy " , tap " Notes " to view your list of notes , tap " Accounts " , tap an account that will sync to your Mac , tap the " + " icon , tap and hold , paste the note that . ( Hopefully you do n't have too many notes that need that action ) .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
If your MBP is early 2011 or newer and there 's an Apple TV on the same wifi network as you , you should see an icon that looks like a TV in the menu bar . Click it and you 'll get a dropdown menu listing all the available Apple TVs ( in case there 's more than one ) . Click yours and you should be good to go ! If your MBP is older than early 2011 , you 'll need a third-party utility of some sort . If you 're willing to shell out $ 15 , I 've heard great things about <URL> .
The solution for me was to use the adapter with a three pin extension cord . Then your notebook is grounded , and no more charges stay on the cover that shock you . :-) . About steps 1-3 In steps 1 and 2 , you reset the System Management Controller ( <URL> ) on a Mac that has a battery , which you should not remove on your own . The SMC manages hardware conditions related to temperatures and power consumption . You may also be interested in the question : <URL> . I 'm not aware of the shortcut you performed in step 3 .
Just figured it out - Connect to AirPlay , so that both video and audio streams are going to the TV Open System Preferences > Sound . Click " output " tab . Select your bluetooth speakers . Voila .
It might be different depending on what type of app you are using , but generally speaking , it sure is beneficial to update from 4 GB to 8 GB since 4 GB is not a lot for a Mac and you are using Xcode . The iPhoto app might not change much , because it has to load lots of photos , its latency depends more on the disk instead of the memory . The value of virtual memory might not be very informative , you should look more at swap used right below virtual memory , this is the memory that is actually stored on the disk since the physical memory is not enough . If you see that swap used is often more than zero , your priority should be absolutely to change for 8 GB memory . Otherwise , installing a SSD might be a better choice though that 's more expensive ... edit 1 : Generally speaking , I would recommend upgrading the memory over upgrading to a SSD . A SSD affects only the loading speed of things , that is , the time that it takes for the computer starts up or for an app to load itself . But the size of memory affects the speed of apps when you are opening lots of them . On the Mac , the concept is switching more and more to holding the app inactive in the background instead of closing them completely , that enables the apps to respond quickly since we do n't have to load them again from disk . Despite Apple 's memory compression technology , opening lots of apps still takes a considerable amount of memory , so upgrading the memory prevents the mac to swap some memory to disk , and makes the mac faster when you have lots of apps in the background .
Your best bet is Apple 's <URL> . There are also assorted USB ethernet adapters available from various sources ( including <URL> ) , including a few <URL> , but the Thunderbolt one will likely have the best performance , so unless you 're using both Thunderbolt ports already , that 's the better choice .
If your Macbook Pro has the single 3.5 mm jack that can take input and output then iRig should work just fine for you . Someone asked <URL> . If you 're looking for something ultra cheap you could always get a 1/4 " to 3.5 mm adaptor to plug your guitar into your Mac . I did this for a very long time until I could afford higher quality hardware . These things run as low as $ 2 at some places , <URL> for example . Hope this helps !
OS 3.0 and above allows you to email out up to 5 photos . Go to your Camera roll . Select the roll you want . Tap Share icon ( bottom left ) Tap each photo you want to send via e-mail ( you should get a red check mark in each photo > Share count will increase to the number of photos selected ) . Tap " Share Icon " again A pop up " e-mail " message will appear All the photos you selected will appear in your e-mail message to send .
System Preferences , Accounts , Login Options and tick " Show input menu in login window " you 'll then be able to change it in the screen saver password window as well In OSX 10.7 Lion , " Accounts " is " Users &amp; Groups " . The setting " Show input menu in login window " really ought to be active by default when plural language input sources are enabled , though .
Your MacBook Pro could have various display ports depending on its vintage : Dual-Link DVI for the oldest models Mini DisplayPort on the 15 " from late 2008 , on the 17 " since early 2009 Both can drive a monitor in analog mode ( via a VGA port on your monitor ) or in digital mode ( via a DVI port ) . Most monitors , except really ancient ones , have both connectors . The quality of the image beeing better with a DVI connection I recommend you go this route . All monitors are shipped with a DVI/DVI cable , if not go get one at your nearest cheap PC place . For old MacBook Pro that 's all you need . For more recent models you need to add a adapter . Apple has <URL> , but I do n't like it : It 's really short and put pressure on the port when the computer is used on a support . Not to mention ugly . I bought on ebay a 6 foot Mini DisplayPort/DVI cable for cheap , it 's all digital so you do n't need huge shielding and " super copper wire balanced to give you the best image " . Around 10 quids . Note : Smaller models like the MacBook and the Macbook Air came with different ports : A mini DVI or a micro DVI . For the people reading this with a non " pro " model , make sure you check for those as well ... PS : You can find pictures of the various ports by searching for their names on Wikipedia . I wanted to put the links directly , but apparently I do not have enough reputation to post more than one link :(
end question
start question
How to control manual double-side printing on Mac OS X Lion ?
You can go to in the system preferences and select for your printer . In there , you should see an option for ( if your printer supports it ) . If that is checked , you can use the automatic double-side printing ( by checking the box next to ) . If not , or if that option is unavailable , you ca n't . In case you ca n't select that option , here 's how you can manually print double-sided pages . Manual double-side printing You can control manual double-side printing ( i.e. , you physically turn the sheets over ) using the setting in the print dialog . If you select , you 'll find a option that lets you print either only the odd pages or only the even pages ( default is both ) . To print double side manually , select first and when it finishes printing , flip the pages over and select Instead of flipping each page over to its blank side before printing the even pages , you have a more convenient option of flipping the entire block of pages , so that the last sheet is on top ( useful when you have a lot of pages to be printed ) . With this , you can then choose in to print the even numbered pages backwards . ( Note : be careful that if you have an odd-number of pages in total , you might have to leave the last one out before printing the even ones . )
<URL> is a free OS X GUI to the <URL> command line utility . It will get you started on the path to rsync enlightenment . You can save common sync operations to recall them at a later time for easy rsync . And it supports the common rsync use case scenarios : push A to B but leave stuff that 's in B but not A in place , push A to B and delete stuff that 's in B but not in A , make A and B look the same ( with a conflict report ) .
First , open the trash can by clicking on it in the Dock . In the Finder , press Command-shift-G ( go to folder ) and go to ~ / . Trash In the Finder window for . Trash , click the proxy icon in the title bar of the window and drag it to the sidebar . You then have a trash folder in your sidebar . To empty the trash from the sidebar , open Automator and create an application . As the sole action in the application , select " Run AppleScript " and use this AppleScript : Save the application as " Empty Trash " , and drag it to the sidebar .
Facetime does not include this functionality directly . One of the possibilities you have is using <URL> feature .
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
Ok ... i did some digging around ... and struck gold . The digging part is not for the " faint of heart " since the Terminal is your best friend and some coding knowledge is involved . Suffice to say my trip in Wiki Server 4 land led me through Ruby on Rails code . I was surprised to find that i 'm able to read ruby code , and i do n't know Ruby at all . After looking through Model Views and Controllers i figured out the solution was simpler than i anticipated . To modify the title on the first page you need to edit a . strings file . You need to use the download version ( not the mac app store app ) of TextWrangler or some other editor that allows Authenticated Saves ( save files as other users ) . Make sure the Wiki service is off ... the slider in the server app is off . The location of the file depends on your language locale that you use : / Applications/Server . app/Contents/ServerRoot / usr/share/collabd / coreclient/locales/en . lproj where " en " can be either de , es , fr , it , ja , ko , nl , zh_CN , zh_TW depending on your wiki language . First ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " to " Read and Write " . Open the file in TextWrangler and find the key general.os _ x_server and under it you can modify the string " OS X Server " to anything you want " My own company Wiki " . Save ( ) the file . Second ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " back to just " Read " . Move ( ) the slider in the Server App to On again for the wiki . Enjoy !!!
The short and easy answer is no - you ca n't just flip a switch to point all the Lion tools and scripts to the same ( or similar ) programs at a different path . The longer answer , is yes - you can of course replace binary files , and test to make sure all the scripts work and patch any issues that arise either out of changed functionality or in the event that the Apple tools depend on a specific version of your web or database server . Everyone I know that wants to install different software on top of Lion just turns off the Lion versions and controls the deployment with other tools like explicit paths , controlling the $ PATH variable and alternate control and reporting structures .
By default this file does not exist on any version of OS X. And yes , it is up to you to create it manually : Alternatively , you could use nano as well if you want to edit the file at the same time : Do not monkey in unless you know what you 're doing .
<URL> is the best tool I 've found for recovering files . It does have some baffling limitations however , like the fact that it ca n't recover . dmg files . It 's a command line program but still very easy to use . And it 's free :) <URL> on their wiki makes it even easier .
The company should have an Apple ID set up . I would recommend that this is registered to a member of the IT team who is most responsible for software purchasing . Then they can download OS X Lion from the app store , and have the license . Is there a business requirement to be running Lion or is this user preference ?
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
It is not possible to remotely control the screen of an iPad unless you jailbreak and install a VNC server as MattDMo suggested . This is because the security model in iOS does not allow an app to reach outside of its sandbox to control other apps or the springboard home screen . Apple does not provide any remote control functionality at the iOS level either . There is no way to do what you are asking for without jailbreaking . Mobile Device Management ( MDM ) solutions do not allow remote control of the screen on iOS either . MDM can push configuration profiles to control settings on an iPad , or prompt the user to install an app from the app store , but they ca n't control the screen . Airwatch offers a screen control option , but this only works on platforms that support it ( not iOS ) . I work with several MDM vendors , including Airwatch , and this is not possible because Apple does not make this functionality available in iOS .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
I never used stay but I am using Moom ( Apple store ) and pretty happy with it . It stores windows positions and has configurable hotkeys . There is no automatic settings for different displays but since you can assign hotkeys to configuration is not a big issue . It is very stable .
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
Regrettably I do n't believe this is possible . As you 've probably noticed , there are no user-accessible options for this in System Preferences ' Keyboard Shortcuts . As far as I can determine , there are n't any scriptable interfaces either ( plists , Applescript ) . Options for building your own program seem to be pretty limited as well , according to <URL> I found . The most you seem to be able to do programmatically is <URL> . The only way to possibly do this without some serious OS X hacking is to use something like <URL> to do some GUI scripting to do the dragging for you . However GUI scripting is always a bit messy , and you 'd need to account for the changing positions of the desktops , depending on how many are open , etc. . I suspect that 's not exactly what you were looking for , but it 's probably the closest you 'll get , unless someone finds something I did n't . Sorry .
You can use the ECM tools created by Neill Corlett , the creator of ECM . Just run " unecm " on the file . <URL> If that seems intimidating , there is a <URL> here that uses a GUI and contains links to the tools used .
The preference for this used to be located in Finder > Preferences . It 's no longer available and after some research online , it looks like no one has discovered a way to turn this on using a plist edit . You might consider telling Apple about how much you miss this : <URL>
You can change this in System Preferences . Go to the Sound pane , and uncheck the checkbox . Also , if you want to not play the sound for a given change ( a one-off thing ) , hold down shift and change the volume . This will also play the sound if it 's turned off .
A free open source one if you do n't want to pay for <URL> is this one : <URL>
end question
start question
How can I switch between the two Java versions in Mountain Lion now that Java Preferences is gone ?
You may need two approaches : one to switch the version for the applet plug-in alone another approach to switch the version for other parts of the JRE without switching the version for the applet plug-in . My <URL> : Java 8 for apps that do not use the plug-in Java 7 Update 9 for the applet plug-in . To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 quit web browsers and any other apps that use Java or the Java applet plug-in install JDK 8 set aside the plug-in install JRE 7 Update 9 or JDK 7 Update 09 . Setting aside : suggested move If you plan to switch frequently , you may prefer a different temporary location . Result At the same time : To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Answers under : <URL> To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 Install JDK 7 Update 09 then JDK 8 the OS and apps will default to use the greatest version . Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 7 Update 9 . To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 6 Update 37 . Example Generally For users of OS X , some of what 's provided by Oracle is initially misleading : <URL> ... and so on . Simplicity Whilst none of the above is as simple as switching with the Java Preferences app previously installed by Apple , the relatively simple approach of setting aside ( no need for special uninstallation ) is reminiscent of the wish for drag-and-drop installation ... <URL> in the <URL> area . Someone might like to build an app , but I should not recommend using symlinks -- it would work , but could be inconsistent with future drag-and-drop approaches to installation . Side notes At the time of writing , the most recent <URL> are ( for platforms other than OS X ) Java 6 Update 37 and ( for platforms including OS X ) Java 7 Update 9 . As greater releases will be made available , please reinterpret this answer accordingly . Java version terminology in this answer is in line with <URL> terminology .
As Robin says , most people would go for OS X Server , because it has tools specifically built to do just this , providing you bind the clients to LDAP . Aside from that , OS X is designed hierarchically . You could try just adding the desired . plist files in / Library/Preferences instead of ~ / Library/Preferences and then deleting said files , if they already exist , from ~ / Library/Preferences ( since files in ~ / Library generally override those in / Library ) There is also the default " User Template " hiding in the System Folder , from which all new users ' home folders are created . You could edit this , but the change would only affect accounts created after the imaged machines have their first boot .
Eventually I found the basic solution : For Java applications in general you can specify that they are ' headless ' , by adding the option to your java application . ( also posted to stackoverflow ) .
Try typing this into terminal : This should output details about which jar file is open in the runtime . Alternatively , to find out which applications are using the Java Runtime select java in the activity monitor and clicking on the blue i icon . Click and see if it gives you a clue which application launched the java environment . You 'd be surprised which applications depend on Java ! You could also try going into the Java System Preference , clicking the Java Tab and choosing . You 'll see a list of registered Java applications that might help you find the culprit .
It sounds like you 're a developer . You should install Mac Ports . It 's REALLY helpful and useful to have . You can use it to get command line tools such as autoconf . It 's always useful to have if you work with command line a lot . Just install the . pkg from <URL> to install MacPorts . After so , in terminal , run : More info : <URL>
The linen backdrop file is You can edit that file , or replace it with a file of the same name , but be certain that the replacement file has a resolution of 72 pixels per inch or you probably wo n't like the result . ᔥ John Martellaro : <URL> Certain applications and situations draw their background from different sources . for example , the background file for Mission Control can be found at If you replace that file , you 'll need to do a command in the terminal before the change will take effect . ᔥ OS X Daily : <URL>
This is not done via any Firefox configuration option , but an account wide Java setting : Open the Java Preferences utility which you can find in Applications - > Utilities . There , under the Advanced tab , and " Java console " , choose " Show console " .
You could try FireWire Target Disk Mode . Boot the source computer while holding down the T key and connect to the destination computer . The source 's drive ( s ) will show up on the desktop and you can copy files that way . I do n't know if it will be any faster ; the bottleneck could be your hard drive speeds .
Yes - if you trust Apple to never lose the photos , you can delete all your local copies . Pay attention to which devices have full resolution images and which have " optimized " settings . Also , I 've been doing this for iTunes Match for some time . I have only lost a few dozen songs in two years of trusting the cloud . For that reason , I now set alarms every 6 months to download a local copy of all the songs from iCloud and back that up to an external HD . I 'll be doing the same with my iCloud photo library to be sure I never lose all the photos . I would add , that if the thought of losing a dozen photos or <URL> if your account should get messed up for engineering to work out the problem is n't your cup of tea , you might keep your originals on hard drives and in filesystems you know you have the tools to work with directly .
From <URL> : Apple supplies their own version of Java . Use the Software Update feature ( available on the Apple menu ) to check that you have the most up-to-date version of Java for your Mac . I seriously recommend not to use any other way , but OS X Software Update .
You can use multi-touch gestures to swipe to the last app you used , in this case will be mail . First make sure Multi-Touch gestures are turned on in the settings panel . Once this feature is on , you can swipe from right to left with four fingers or more to cycle through the apps you last used . If you do not want to use that , you can double tap the home button top bring up the last few apps used .
This is one of those things that really makes me wonder " If it 's not broken why fix it ? " . Other than switching to another application that might give you back the lost functionality , I only have one suggestion at the moment . This is how I 've been able to use Preview ( 5.5 ) and still get two page ( side by side ) continuous scrolling : Open up your pdf , document , etc. in Preview.app File > Print or ⌘ P In the Print Dialog Box click Preview > Change to Layout [ 2 pages ] Lastly , click PDF > Open PDF in Preview . You should now see your document layout as two pages and you can scroll continuously . I realize it 's far from ideal , although it is a way to still use Preview exclusively , yet still have similar functionality as before . I hope they will fix it ; I should n't have to be thinking of ways like this to use it like it could have been . ;-)
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
On OS X , the administrative password is required for any item that is installed outside of the local user . The reason being is that OS X has a differing file structure ( and privilege arrangement ) than Linux . The root of OS X is installed to / System . This parent directory is untouched aside from system files ( such as OS X updates ) . Libraries , extensions , various plug-ins , and other miscellany used to power some applications are installed to / Library . Applications typically install their files to a folder names Application Support ( however , this is not always the case ) . This parent folder houses files that can be modified by installers run by either the administrator or a user . Installed components affect the entire system ( not just a particular user ) . Lastly , Applications ( which are in actuality folders with the . app suffix ) are placed in / Applications . The Mac App Store ( MAS ) downloads to this directory and users can also drag and drop their applications here . The parent directory is owned by root ( and so are applications installed via the MAS ) but users do have write access . The folders above ( and their children ) will require the administrative password to modify , copy , or delete . With respect to MATLAB , the installer likely installs files to / Library ( perhaps to Application Support ) , hence the administrative password requirement . I ca n't speak for MATLAB specifically , but the option to view a packages file structure is available through the OS X 's Installer . Simply launch the package ( pkg ) and then navigate to the menu . It is located under File > Show Files . Here you can see the contents of the <URL> available on Apple 's website . The request for administrative credentials occurs before the actual need to write the files . It is simply the way a package is built on OS X. Think of it as simply a step in the install procedure rather than one that is bound to a specific event that occurs due to the need for it . During the construction of the installer , the developer would specify these requirements and once specified , it is OS X that delivers them in accordance with Apple 's human interface guidelines .
The feature description is a bit misleading . It appears that by " close Notes " , Apple means " close the main Notes window " , not " close the Notes app " , which ( not surprisingly ) leaves other windows open . In fact , the context menu refers to the main Notes window as Notes : So what Apple 's description basically means : Even if you close Notes , the note stays open on your desktop . = You do n't need to use the overview window at all times . You can use similar to By the way , is still available in Mountain Lion and has been upgraded to version 9.0 .
I did some more research and finally found some things out : I have the Logitech remote software installed , and when launching it , it brings up the prompt , but a slightly different one . So , I know I have a few Java apps installed , but this was happening without me launching something My actual error was related to a Facebook chat thing I had installed a while back , that I never put on my iMac . It was named ' com.facebook.videochat . [ username ] . plist ' , and was in my ~ / Library/LaunchAgents directory . I actually came across <URL> ( asked after mine ) when searching for the only Java information I found Console.app : 8/31/12 6:44:23.606 PM Download Java Components [ 7588 ] : com.apple.message.domain : com.apple.java.usage2.DownloadOnDemand.complete com.apple.message.result : failure com.apple.message.signature : install_canceled com.apple.message.domain.version : 12A269 I would recommend checking your ~ / Library/LaunchAgents directory first , and you can easily grep for java by doing : and then . This searches for the word java ( case insensitive ) in all files in that directory . Thats where I found the reference to the Facebook videochat plist .
Here are two more options : Use a thunderbolt cable to transfer the data between the Macs . To do this , reboot the source Mac while pressing the " T " key . This will allow the destination Mac to access the hard drive directly . Depending on what is being migrated , the Migration Assistant may also be of use if transferring all the applications , one or more user directories , etc. to the other Mac . This works over Wifi/Ethernet , and over Thunderbolt
I suspect it will be serial number based , or model number based . As the new models will no doubt all have serial numbers and indeed model identifiers ( iMac 9,1 for example ) that will allow them to clearly identify which machines are applicable , and allow the upgrade as appropriate . In previous " up-to-date " schemes it has been this way , and not reliant in any way on what is installed on your drive . If you are transferring to a different boot volume , I would recommend using an image file rather than Time Machine . You can pick up a USB enclosure for your SSD , image the existing drive onto it , and then simply swap them over - this is how I have done things in similar scenarios .
Apple computers have long been considered " virus free " although Apple stopped pushing this as a selling point earlier this year in the wake of several Apple targeted viruses . The truth is that a virus can be programmed for mac much like a software application can , the reason for the lack if infections on mac was merely the same as the reason for lack of some apps in the past , the relative unpopularity vs windows machines meant it was less practical to program for mac . With macs now being more popular than ever before , Apple now has to implement strict measures to hold on to their clean , virus free image , hence Gatekeeper being added to Mountain Lion .
After some experimenting , I found a <URL> . Create a directory . Create a symlink to from Java 8 . If missing , create an empty directory . You 'll probably need to be to do this , so use using an administrative account ( consult an expert if you are inexperienced , use at your own risk ) : You can ignore errors stating that something already exists .
end question
start question
I forgot the passcode for my iPad restrictions . How can I disable them ?
The short answer is no . The long answer is wipe the device and then start over . If you have a backup , hopefully it 's from before the restrictions were set .
The Alt key on the Mac is used differently than on Windows . Its main use is exactly what you see : To enter special ( " alternate " ) characters . Menu shortcuts and such are always triggered by a Command-key ( " ⌘ " ) combo ( sometimes including other modifier keys , such as the Alt key ) . For example , closing all open windows in Finder is [ Cmd ] - [ Alt ] - [ W ] .
In the Privacy tab of Safari preferences , check the box to Prevent search engine from providing suggestions .
The only way I know of is to get into Exposé mode ( e.g. press ( fn + ) F3 on newer keyboards ) and then pressing the down arrow key . You will see the currently selected minimised window ( in the lower third of the screen ) surrounded by a blue shadow and you can select other windows by moving around with the arrow keys . You can then bring any window to the foreground by hitting return .
You can disable voicemail button ( not remove it ) if you jailbreak and install " voicemailblock " from Cydia it will disable it . Works with SBSetting so you can enable and disable the button when you want .
The first option should be the most reliable : Open Settings.app , scroll down and tap on " iTunes &amp; App Stores " . The Apple ID that the device is currently signed into will be at the top of the screen next to " Apple ID " . Alternate methods ( only on iOS 5 or newer ) : Settings.app > iCloud ( under " Account " ) Settings.app > Messages > Send &amp; Receive At ( under " Apple ID " ) Settings.app > Facetime ( under " Apple ID " )
Enter Mission Control Hover over the selected space or hold & #x 2325 ; remove by clicking on the x
If by " 3g chip " , you are referring to the iPad MicroSIM card , then no , you do not need to power off the device to switch it out . However , if you 're referring to the actual 3G radio inside the iPad , my advice is to take it to an Apple store and have the repair done by an Apple technician , as operating on the device yourself is likely to void the warranty .
No , this is currently not possible . Your browsing history is not shared over iCloud and ca n't be viewed on your Mac .
Possibly a suggestion moving forward , if you change those . docx files to . doc , there are many more programs out there that can edit the files , e.g. , Pages . If you prefer to stay with . docx , previously mentioned QuickOffice Pro HD is a great solution , <URL> is another solution and <URL> also tries to emulate the Office interface . CloudOn is still pretty new and a bit buggy , but it 's free and may help in a pinch . I found myself in the same situation with school and found that batch editing my . docx files to . doc was well worth it in the end . Hope this helps !
If security is a major concern , I 'd assume that a software hack is not the solution . There still is a chance of malicious software importing code which re-enables the audio functionality . I read <URL> about disabling iSight on Macs where is was recommened to physically remove the webcam for absolute security . If you do not want to physically remove your iPhone 's microphone , I would try to distort the audio as good as possible - that would leave a spy with imprecise mumbling noises . The iPhone 4 can be muted quite effectively by just closing the hole at the bottom . There is a good chance that closing the hole of the microphone has the same effect . You could apply prestik or hot glue for example .
I am assuming this process will work out to be the same as the current situation with iPhones : Backup your iPad using iTunes . Plug new iPad into same computer . Restore new iPad from old iPad backup . When this is done with an iPhone , the new iPhone will be configured exactly as the old one - save games , email apps , photos , everything is transfered . What happens is actually that the backup contains all app data + configuration . The rest is basically a list of stuff that should be synced from your computer to the device ( e.g. music , photos , apps ) .
To reassign the key globally , go to System Preferences " Mission Control and under Application Windows , where it currently says ^ ↓ , assign another key ( I used F10 , à la exposé ) .
In a sense the basis of your question is in error . While iMovie is saving videos to your camera roll , this is n't using any extra space on your iPhone . That 's why you get the error you 're getting after deleting the files - because that 's where iMovie is trying to access the video from . Basically , what happens is the video is saved to your camera roll , but project specific info is saved within iMovie . Once you have totally finished a project , you can export/share/save the final version and after that you can delete the video you took from your camera roll ( if you want ) . If you like , you can actually prove this to yourself by doing a simple test : Go to Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud usage In the Storage section , tap on Manage Storage Wait for the list of apps to appear ( this may take a while if you have lots of apps ) . Tap on iMovie ( likely to be in your top 10 ) Take a note of how much space is used up by Documents &amp; Data Now go to your actual iMovie app and take a 30s video Go to your Camera roll and try to email this video to yourself You should get a warning saying that this attachment may be too large to email . This message will give you the size of the video . Take a note of this . Cancel the attempt to email the video . Repeat the first 5 steps . You should note that while your iMovie Documents &amp; Data have grown a little , it will not have grown by anywhere near the size of the actual video itself . The reason this has grown is because it 's storing project info , not because it 's storing the video again . Hopefully this little test will put your mind at ease . Do n't forget to delete your test video .
I do n't mind the alert or warning , but I do mind the weeks of having a blinking icon in my Menubar . Here 's what I did in Terminal : This replaces the low battery icon with the same connected icon . I assume the icon is still " blinking " in that it 's switching one for the other , but since they 're now the same , you do n't notice . Now I get the 20 % , 10 % , 5 % alerts , but no annoying blink . This is in Lion . It 's likely that system updates and perhaps even Mountain Lion will undo this , but it can probably be reapplied after updates are performed . For Mountain Lion , the relevant files are named :
Go to App Store or iTunes Store and scroll to the bottom , then pick your Apple ID . Select View Apple ID and log in with your current password . Pick Apple ID at the top and change your password , then press Done .
Try pressing C when booting . It might help you get pass safe-boot . or you can try using a key remapping app . Resources : <URL> <URL> .
Go to settings > iTunes &amp; App Stores > Apple ID : Select sign out , that will clear your stored password ... Then you can enter the proper information .
With Airport Utility , select the time capsule ; Airport tab ; Wireless tab . In the Wireless Mode dropdown , choose ' Off ' .
Open the " Photos " view and press the Sharing button : You can then select one or more photos and delete them :
end question
start question
When Time Machine says it 's ' Verifying Backup ... ' what is it actually doing ?
If it 's your first backup in Lion , you need to leave the computer awake and connected to the Time Machine volume and let it do its thing , perhaps overnight . Once it makes an initial backup it has to construct an elaborate index database so that the Time Machine restore functions can work correctly . If you interrupt or cancel the process , it will have to start over from the beginning again at some other time , and this will indeed take up time and system resources . I have heard complaints from others that the initial backup , verifying , indexing , etc. takes a great deal of time in Lion , but you need to allot the time necessary to let the system do its thing in order that it work correctly .
You could try <URL> : it will give you the size of each backup , the backed-up files and catalog the backups with colors to quickly identify the big ones . There are also lists of files excluded by rule or that you add manually to exclusions : <URL>
No , Time Machine does not do this . The only reliable way to back up your BootCamp partition is to boot into Windows and run Windows-compatible disk backup software from within Windows , to back up to a separate external hard drive formatted with NTFS . Winclone has not been updated in a long time and is not a useful solution .
The mechanism to force a full backup is n't well documented , but it does get logged to the console logs as Forcing deep traversal on source : " Macintosh HD " ... but even if this happens , the system will base the storage of new copies of files on what exists on the backup volume previously . I would add a new drive and back up to it once if you are concerned that your backup is no longer reliable . From the command line , you can then check on things with or by using a tool such as <URL> to convince yourself that specific ( or ongoing ) backups are correctly being made .
Time Machine backs up an entire drive/partition/volume unless you specifically remove files and folders under " Options " . All User accounts are included unless you uncheck them in Options . All of this info is available in your Finder Help menu .
Yes , it 's straightforward to do it , even though it would take quite sometime to complete depending on the size of your current backups . Follow the detailed procedure at <URL> . Here 's a summary of what 's required and the steps . The backups go into a sparsebundle on a . So you need to create that sparsebundle on the , mount it in and then copy over everything from your USB drive into the mounted volume . Here are the basic steps with some additional information : Configure to back up to the and start a backup . This will make it create the sparsebundle . Cancel the backup once the copying starts ( as seen in the progress window ) . Mount the sparsebundle in by double-clicking it ( or using Cmd + Down Arrow ) Delete the folder inside this volume ( you 'll be replacing it with the backup you already have ) . Open your current backup USB drive in and copy the folder from it to the partition ( mounted from the ) . Enter your administrator password and accept the prompts ( this may happen a couple of times ) .
Any <URL> product will do , but it 's possibly more expensive than a single Time Capsule . The advantages are a lot tho . :) You can compare the <URL> . I have used a Drobo ( not pro , not fs , not anything ) and it had problems with certain reliability , but I 've heard nice things about Drobo FS and even Drobo Pro . There are other NAS out there , so find one that you can afford , seek for reviews and go ahead :) . The nice thing about ( Drobo in this case ) is that you put " normal " drives in there , if one fails , you just replace it . BOom . That simple . It works in practice too . I 've had two drive failures while using the Drobo .
Over wireless , I 'd assume less than 5gb per hour . More likely 2-3 , putting your backup in the 5-6 day range . Your best bet is to use an ethernet cable to connect to the Airport Extreme while the first backup runs . You should average 10 + gb per hour over a cable and I 'd hop
The Basics : <URL> Time Machine is Apple 's backup solution , included in OS X . An external drive is required . It backs up changed files every hour , and stores as many " snapshots " as it can hold . After the initial full backup , it only stores changes to files , which makes things more efficient , and allows for more granular snapshots . In addition to being able to do a full system restore , you can selectively restore older versions of specific files , which is handy in case you delete or make changes you did n't mean to . Using Time Machine on OS X 10.7 and later also enables " <URL> " , which keeps snapshots of changed files on your main drive when you do n't have your backup drive attached , provided there 's sufficient space . Obviously this does n't help if you have a drive failure , but in the case of accidental deletions , etc. it can be helpful . For more information , Apple 's <URL> article is a good starting point . Online Backup If you 're on the go a lot , you may want to consider an online backup service . <URL> is a popular one , but there 's also <URL> , <URL> and several others . The advantages are not needing an external drive , and having an off-site backup to recover from in the event of something nasty happening to your house . The downside is the monthly cost ( I believe BackBlaze is a flat fee , others have differing schemes based on how much data you back up ) , as well as the time required to back up over the internet . These services only back up data that has changed , so after the initial full backup , things will get faster , but depending on your connection , it could be a bit problematic ( particularly if you 're travelling -- most hotel Wi-Fi I 've used is n't exactly speedy ) . <URL> SuperDuper is a longstanding Mac favourite . It will make a complete clone of your drive to an external drive , which is then bootable and usable exactly like your internal drive . It also has a " smart update " feature , where after the initial clone , it only updates the backup with changed data , to minimize how long backups take . SuperDuper is the best way to get up and running again after a hard drive crash -- you can boot off your backup drive right away and you 'll your full system . <URL> I 'm listing this separately from the other online backup systems because it 's not really a full backup , but it 's definitely worth using . It 's simply a folder that syncs to the Dropbox servers and wherever else you install your Dropbox client . Some limited storage of old versions of files is also included . 2GB is provided free , you can pay if you need more . The best use of Dropbox would be for your current working files . It wo n't store everything , but if you use it for the files you most often need , or those that you 're using lately , you 'll have up to date backups from whenever you have an internet connection . Wrap Up You 'll have to do think about what exact setup suits your needs best . Ideally , a robust backup system would include at least two or three of these options in combination , so that you have multiple fallbacks . For example , you could do a daily or weekly SuperDuper backup , and then use Dropbox or Time Machine to restore the files you 've been working on since your most recent backup . Adding in an online backup service for off-site redundancy will give you some added protection in the event your local backups are lost or destroyed .
SIMBL is not a part of Apple 's Mac OS X package , but is an extension that can be used by other developers in their own work to extend applications where they may not have the original source code ( like Safari ) . SIMBL-related files can be found either in or .
That message means that there is a <URL> . This may happen if you connect new hardware to your computer . For possible reasons/fixes , see <URL> from the Apple website . Here is a section from the " Troubleshooting " section ... Was the computer starting up , shutting down , or performing a particular task when the recurring kernel panic happened ? Is the kernel panic intermittent , or does it happen every time you do a certain thing ? Does it occur only when a certain external device is connected , or a device is connected to a certain port ? Reading through that article should give you a general idea what is happening and possible ways to fix it .
Mail is like many apps that use the network - it ca n't just quit if there is network traffic active , it needs to see those requests safely terminated . If for example Mail is checking your iCloud account it needs to wait a certain time until all processes are complete before exiting . It may also be sending an email that you have just hit " Send " on , and then you have immediately tried to quit - ca n't work that way . Even if the network communication is asynchronous these things need to be tidied up before exiting .
I did some searching and found <URL> ( the caveat being that this applies to 10.5 ) : Using the Restore feature in Disk Utility , you can " restore " the Time Machine disk to another disk and retain the history of changes . This could be useful if you 've outgrown your Time Machine backup drive , and want to migrate your existing backups to a new , larger drive . You should turn Time Machine off before doing starting this process , of course . Be aware that the disks will have the same name and information , so it might confuse Time Machine . For example , after I activated Time Machine on the newly-created disk , I plugged in the old disk , and it showed up as a Time Machine drive , but the backup failed . It 's probably best to avoid having both of them plugged in . At the very least , rename one of them . Perhaps more importantly , Carbon Copy Cloner 2.3 does n't work correctly for cloning a Time Machine drive ( I do n't know about 3 . x ) , as it does n't copy hard links but rather , copies what the links point to . This results in a lot of copies of your system when the Time Machine database has been around for a while . The common suggestion from that thread is for CCC is to a block-to-block copy of the old disk to the new disk .
This answer explains things for a Windows-based server , but it should work fine for Ubuntu . In Terminal , type the following command : Now , as long as you have a connection to your computer 's shared drive , you should be able to see it in Time Machine . To connect to that shared drive : Finder > Go > Connect to Server . Type in the IP address or host name of the server . You may be prompted to log in . Configure Time Machine to use the drive , and try creating a backup . Time Machine will try to create a " sparse bundle " on the drive , and will fail . Open Console and check . You will see the name of the file Time Machine was trying to create . The name of the file will be something like You will need to create a sparse bundle with this name and put it on the hard drive manually before the backups will work . To do this , open Disk Utility . Click New Image > Set image format as " sparse bundle disk image " > Set partition map to " no partition map " > Set the size as the maximum size you are willing to allot to Time Machine . Do n't modify anything else . Though the file on the hard drive will need to begin with a period , you will not be able to do this right away through Disk Utility , so just call it whatever you want right now . You can rename the file so that it has a period before its name from Terminal on OS X or Ubuntu . Your final name should be like . If everything is done right , you should now be able to use Time Machine with an Ubuntu Server . Note : This answer was copied from <URL> and has been formatted for AskDifferent . I 've used this method myself , albeit on a Windows shared drive .
Turns out that the problem was that the disk was n't empty . Formatting the disk and starting again solved the problem .
I 've migrated between many macs over the years , and I 've always found that the best way to do it , is manually . Normally I use a firewire cable ( but you can also use WiFi , USB , external hard drive , dvd/cd , etc ) to hook up the two computers , then just drag over files from one computer to the other . Mostly everything the average user has on their mac will be found in their user folder ( home folder ) . You can just drag/copy this entire folder over , or you can be more selective about which folders in your home folder you move ( for instance , you may not want the folder ) . Then , anything outside of your home folder ( Applications , for one ) you can drag/copy over if you want .
Your preferred setup is not possible : OS X ca n't share an NTFS disk with Windows for backup because Time Machine needs HFS + ( from <URL> ) : Manually preparing a new disk for Time Machine ( ... ) If you want to partition the disk , click the Partition tab and select a layout . Make sure " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " is selected in the Format menu for the partition that will be used for backups . Click Apply . Luckily , you do n't need two separate drives . Using <URL> you can trick your computer into thinking it is connected to more than one drive , although there 's only one . In this case , two partitions will suffice , one HFS + and one NTFS . ( Why only one NTFS partition although you back up 3 Windows computers ? Because Windows stores backups in folders named after the computer name so there are no conflicts whatsoever ( see this <URL> ) . You can use one NTFS partition to store backups of multiple Windows computers . ) I 'd recommend that you create the HFS + partition on your Mac first , then , on your Windows computer , format the other partition to NTFS : Plug your drive into your Mac . Open Disk Utility ( in Applications/Utilities ) . Select the drive and select the Partition tab . Create two partitions . Format the first partition as HFS + ( and give it a name like " Time Machine " ) . Leave the other partition as " Free Space " . See <URL> for more details . Eject the drive and plug it into your Windows computer . Format the second partition as NTFS . When you 're done , plug the drive again into every Mac/Windows computer and select the corresponding partition as backup drive ( see <URL> for OS X and <URL> for Windows ) . To prevent the NTFS partition from being mounted every time you connect the drive into your Mac add this entry to ( as explained <URL> ) : Replace with the NTFS partition name . This setup works like a charm . I have a very similar configuration : My external 1 TB drive , which I use for backing up my Mac and my wife 's Windows PC , has two partitions called " Time Machine " and " BACKUP_WINDOWS " :
22 hours is very long indeed . I have encrypted a 1TB drive in less time before . The encryption is handled by a " live background process " . " This process continues seamlessly across reboots . The logical volume remains usable at all times . " from man page > diskutil > encryptVolume Maybe this daemon hangs or simply halted because the drive is not mounted ( which is fine ) . So you should just re-mount it again . Alternatively , I would try I restart the daemon by simply restarting the computer . Once the Time Machine backup is mounted again , the daemon will continue encrypting the drive . Checking the encryption progress using diskutil You can check the status of the encryption by using the command : In the nested tree you will see a Logical Volume Family which is currently being encrypted . If you drive is being encrypted , you should see the entry .
In Finder , click Go = > Connect To Server ... In the Server Address field , type " afp : / / xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx " ( IP address ) or " afp : / / your-ngnas-name . local " Connect using the credentials you use to connect to the Time Machine service . Finder will open a window in / Volumes/ReadyNAS . You should see a list Time Machine 's . sparsebundle files . At this point , you can delete a . sparsebundle . It 's also possible to Ctrl + Click on a . sparsebundle and select " Show Package Contents " to browse inside . UPDATE Sometimes files inside the sparsebundle package or the package itself will be locked , preventing deletion . To unlock : Get Info > General > Locked > uncheck .
All users share acces to / Applications . Move apps you want restricted to your user 's home folder ~ / Applications and then creat a new user from system preferences .
end question
start question
How to show command of a process in activity monitor ?
Select desired process , click the gear button or the View menu , and then select Sample Process . The 5th line in the sample window shows the path to the executable .
See <URL> . Quote : Turn Airport Off via Command Line Turn Airport On via Command Line You wo n't see any confirmation in the Terminal that the command succeeded or failed , but if you watch the AirPort menu icon you will see the bars disappear indicating the wireless interface is turned off , or reappear indicating that wireless is activated again . NOTE : In OS X Lion , use the hardware name above instead of , e.g. .
You can achieve this by making an automator workflow and saving it as a service . Open Automator.app , choose to make a Service . In the top menu set " Service receives selected " to " text " in " any application " . From the Actions , Library menu search for " Get Value of Variable " and drag to the right in the workflow area . Again in the Actions , Library search for " Run AppleScript " and drag to the workflow area . In the " Run AppleScript " action enter the flowing code : Add a variable by clicking on the little double bar icon at the bottom of the window and then right-clicking in the variables frame to create a new variable . Name your variable anything you like . When your done your workflow should look like below . Save it and name it something like " Run in Terminal " . Now when your in a web browser you can right click and navigate to Services and you will see your " Run in Terminal " command , which will open up terminal and run the highlighted text .
I looked for some generic commands that display/manipulate kernel extensions . got my attention and based on its output , the 4th column is The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies . If this is zero , the kext is a built-in part of the kernel that has a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts . The only problem was that its size was in hexadecimal . So I converted the hexadecimal to decimal and printed only relevant information ( like kext bundle id ) . Breaking it down : - print a list of loaded non-built-in kexts - pipe the output to , convert the 4th " size " column from hexadecimal to decimal , print that and the kext bundle id . - pipe the output to command and sort the list using numerical comparison ( so that " 10 " is not less than " 1 " ) . You can pipe the output to to get top 3 memory hoggers . Here are mine : Update : you can also pipe this to to see which non-apple kexts are loaded .
Save in AppleScript Editor and assign a shortcut in <URL> or <URL> :
Most of the difference was marked probably memory marked as inactive . Any app can still use this memory , so it 's not marked as used by some process . For more info about inactive memory , see <URL> . Wired memory usually makes up a much smaller portion . This is memory used by the OS ; it is n't available to your apps . For more info , see the Apple article <URL> .
I 'm afraid this is n't made possible by the S.M.A.R.T ( Self-Monitoring , Analysis and Reporting Technology ) system that is used to provide details of Hard Drive operation , I was hoping to find a <URL> that details the current ' park ' status , but it seems that there simply is n't one , and as this is a low level activity that is fully handled by the drive itself without any OS input I can not see a way of ever retrieving the status as the value is n't available in the first place .
launchd and the Login Items pane of Accounts preferences are the two places that normally start a process when you log in . If you do n't see the item in System Preferences - > Accounts - > specific account - > Login Items then you will have to look into launchd . Basically the LaunchAgents and LaunchDaemons folders in ~ / Library Lastly , if they are not there , then it 's a system level launchd task that you might want to use launchctl to show or look in / Library instead of the user level library . Most people just have to manage the preference pane . Here is a snap of mine showing the Activity Monitor selected and ready to be deleted if I press the -- button .
You can cancel current command with ⌃ CTRL + c . You can clear command to the beginning with ⌃ CTRL + u. To clear line after the cursor press ⌃ CTRL+K . Here are some great answers on <URL> .
Have a look at <URL> . The project tries to reproduce Ubuntu 's for Homebrew users on OS X.
It 's not a super common process name ( in my experience at least ) , so in case no one has a laser-guided answer , some ways to narrow it down : This will show details about where the binary is located on the filesystem , show you in real time the files that process is accessing , and lastly list all open files that the program has . Hopefully there are some bread crumbs you can follow and you do n't have to use or to trawl the filesystem to locate the executable file .
The most likely explanation is that your miniDP to VGA adapter is not an original/high-quality one . I 've seen it happen before , and as soon as that person bought an original Apple miniDP to VGA adapter the issue is gone and native resolution is recognized without any issue .
The command only looks in the standard executable paths . Try instead . Here 's an example from my machine . I used " git " because I do n't have " bower " installed . returned the path of the system-installed version of " git " . returned the path of the version that actually runs when I type " git " at the command line .
Generally this is equivalent to dragging a file onto an app 's icon : You can use the complete path to your app if it is n't in an expected place .
In Mountain Lion you can use the command . will prevent idle sleep for 1000 seconds .
The standard way of approaching these terms is to say that an " application " is a specific , static program on storage . It 's some piece of code stored on a hard drive , a CD-ROM or elsewhere . A " process " on the other hand is a specific instance of a running program . I.e. it is registered by the operating system as executing or being able to execute whenever the operating system feels like it . If you take for example Calculator.app , it is a single application . However you can have multiple Calculator processes if you start the program multiple times . As chananelb wrote , it is also possible to have processes which are not " just " ordinary applications that have been started up . That could be for example kernel processes , or simply ordinary processes spawning up subprocesses to do specific tasks . Regarding services , I chananelb 's answer leads you in the wrong direction . His answer tells you about what is called a " Service " in Mac OS X. . . but you asked about what is called a " Service " in Windows . The counterpart to a Windows Service is a Daemon on Mac OS X ( and other Unix-derived systems ) . Daemons are normally categorized by running in the " background " , i.e. without direct user interaction through a graphical or non-graphical user interface . The distinction is a bit blurry though , as a Daemon might for example have a web interface for user interaction . Daemons on Mac OS X are controlled by the launchd program , which is responsible for for example starting up daemons on boot , and letting the user start and stop daemons at request .
lsof = list open files . See manual for more details . You can see with " ps - ef " more info about the PID " lsof " gave you .
The CPU percentages shown in Activity Monitor are 100 % for each virtual core . Therefore , for your hyper-threaded dual-core processor , 400 % is 100 % . In my case , the hyper-threaded quad-core in my Mac means that 800 % is 100 % .
Here is the code : Just replace the with the index of your script in the menu . ( FYI : 1 is , 8 is
So far it seems that there is no way to do this . I ended up changing my Graphics card to solve the problem .
end question
start question
Does Apple make a modem ?
Apple do n't make a modem , but depending on your internet/cable/fiber provider , you may be able to encourage them to give you one for free . I have Virgin Media in the UK and new customers receive a new Super Hub free ( which can easily be configured to be a slave modem , you just turn the wireless off ) . The same is true of most of the free ' hubs ' provided by networks these days .
iPods and iPhones are backed up using iTunes to a Mac or PC . " On this iPhone " has options to backup either to iCloud or the device running iTunes .
When Steve Jobs first introduced the iMac in 1998 , he proclaimed that the i stood for Internet . Jobs went on to say , " i also means some other things to us " and displayed a presentation slide with the keywords : internet individual instruct inform inspire You can even view <URL> . The " i " was first used on the iBook and iMac . These were produced as Steve Jobs wanted a pro and consumer model of a desktop and portable computer . This later rolled out with more products , iSight , iPod , iPhone , iPad . Yes the products are trademarked , but using an " i " itself before a product is not trademarked and it can not be . Here is <URL>
Yes , newer versions of Bash are released under GPLv3 This question brings out armchair lawyers that argue points for and against GPLv3 . Simply put , GPLv3 conflicts with Apple 's Licensing Policies ( among other licenses ) . None of these licenses prevent you from downloading the source code and compiling a newer version of Bash . On a historical note , Bash was not originally offered as a shell in OS X. Apple does not supply any software under the GPLv3 license .
The only super major differences the 1st Gen Apple TV 's has from the new ones is the ability to store Movies , Music , Content , etc because they have a physical hard drive in them for doing those things . The other things is that they can connect to TV 's through Red , Blue , Green Component Cables . They also do not support Airplay with out a hack or a software fix . Also , the newest Apple TV , the 3rd Gen , allows for 1080p HD playback , where the older ones only support 720p HD playback . There are also a few other minor differences in size , power consumption , software options/OS and so on . The new Apple TV 's do not have hard drives or Component Cable outputs and support Airplay out of the box . Airplay is probably the biggest feature that makes people who do n't want to hack to jump ship to the newer box . It is pretty cool . The 1080 HD playback is nice , but depending on your TV , may or may not be noticeable/important . Some people like the older ones also because they can be hacked and used as linux computers ( <URL> ) with actual storage and since they can also store things on them , you can take it with you and have videos/music on it and not require internet for streaming your content . Though the biggest reason is most likely the hack-ability of them , they are tiny computers with a decent amount of power . And since they are n't sold any more and are still sought after , that would explain their above average price . The new Apple TV 's require internet of some kind or at least a local network for stream video and movies and data from a computer or the internet . They are also significantly smaller too , the older Apple TVs are much larger . You can see all the differences on their wiki page , it lays out the differences in features between the devices and even talks about most of the hacks that are available . Very informative . <URL> I hope that this answer helps you out .
This is currently not possible . Siri is only able to use Apple 's standard apps , sadly .
OK , as it turns out the test user can only be used from within the sandbox environment , which makes certain sense . This is described <URL> .
No , you ca n't do this the way you 're describing , only 1 build is allowed at a time for each app name and App ID . So obviously you can have different builds ( v1 , v1 .1 , v2 , etc ) , but only one is live on the App Store at one time . To solve your issue , you should look at having the code in your app handle the different locations ( or language/Region Format ) of each user . It 's generally thought that having different versions of the same app makes it more difficult to promote ( which is why there are less Lite/Pro apps now , and more with the freemium approach with in in-app purchase to unlock more features ) , so having a single version of the app would also help here . I would also point you to the following two entry points that describe how to use app-id wildcards . <URL> the recently updated <URL> Without getting too deep into the guts of how code signing works , there is truly no " one size fits all " answer since your marketing needs may override the extra work needed to properly localize one unified release . Additionally , app id choice has ramifications for iCloud data storage and will affect a small but highly vocal subset of customers that want to switch their Apple ID to another country .
Unlike your iOS device ( s ) that have a smaller more finite amount of memory , your desktop/notebook systems are more than capable of storing the photos , as they 're found in your Photo Stream , they 're also automatically imported to your iPhoto Library ( <URL> ) : But since your Mac has more storage than your iOS device , it automatically imports every picture from your Photo Stream into your photo library so you can edit , delete , and share the ones you want . Take note , however , that there is a difference between your Photo Stream collection and your iPhoto Library . Attempting to interact with any photo being viewed while Photo Stream is selected will prompt you to view the copy in your Library .
Assuming you are using bash : If you activate emacs shortcuts with you can also use Emacs to edit the command line : Type Ctrl-XCtrl-E at the prompt to start Emacs Paste and edit your clipboard content into the Emacs buffer Use Ctrl-XCtrl-C to exit Emacs and automatically run the command ( s ) .
It works pretty much as you describe Windows . If you want a better key combo to access the menu bar , you can customize it under . Then type to select which menu you want , hit enter , then type to select the menu item . Note that most menu items have keyboard shortcuts . These are written next to the menu item , often a single character preceded by the CMD key .
Apple Music offline songs are stored in this directory : A normal Song with a duration between 3:45 min and 5:02 min is about 7MB to 11MB large . rule of thumb is to calculate 10MB per Song and you are on the safe side . For Example a Maroon 5 song :
<URL> This is a sample project showing how to make something like a dynamic background but I think you need to jailbreak your phone to make use of it .
Without a Mac/iOS Developer account you wo n't : get access to OS X betas be able to publish your apps on the Mac App Store be able to code sign your OS X / iOS apps . Code signing is needed if you want to run apps with <URL> enabled . There is no discount if you enroll in both developer programs .
This seems to work on my AppleTV 2 and MacBook Air . Last night I turned on the AppleTV to browse my main library on a Mac Mini and the MacBook Air library showed up as well , even though the lid was closed and the computer was asleep . I have not experimented enough to know if this works with the power adapter unplugged . This was a very pleasant , but apparently undocumented , feature to discover . Perhaps it arrived in the most recent AppleTV update .
My presumption is that when you burned the DVD using iMovie - it was encoded within a VIDEO_TS folder and you will need some software to move the video and sound files ( which are hidden and obscured on the filesystem ) back into a format that can be played on your Mac and/or burned back to a fresh optical drive . Depending on the version of software that wrote the DVD to disc , you might be able to locate the raw video files ( or find them on a backup ) . Barring that , using Disk Utility to simply clone the volume onto a new drive is n't a good choice , but I 've had great luck with programs like the little app factory 's <URL> .
It uses both Bluetooth LE 4.0 AND 802.11 ac WiFi . Bluetooth is used to discover the Apple Watch and establish a connection . Then it uses WiFi to do " time-in-flight " calculations - i.e. to figure out how far your watch is from the Mac . The Mac needs to support 802.11 ac WiFi for this to work . All watches are supported , both the old and the new - even though the old ones does not support 802.11 ac . This way it is possible to prevent attacks such as someone planting a " bluetooth repeater " near you , so that it could replay your bluetooth responses captured this way to a Mac located somewhere remotely .
OS X 10.5 : Go to in , then select at the bottom . newer versions of OS X : Go to in , then click on at the bottom and select .
If Apple 's supported method of using the tool does n't work , you can try other options below : <URL> - Create a bootable installer for OS X With OS X El Capitan , Yosemite , or Mavericks , you can use a USB flash drive or other removable media as a startup disk from which to install OS X. Really - try the above if you can , but as an alternative , here is a simple recipe for making a USB version of the OS X installer + associated tools . ( Migration Assistant , Disk Utility , Network Utility , Terminal ( that auto mounts your internal drive as needed ) , Firmware Utility and Password Reset Utility . 1 ) Use Disk Utility backup/restore to image whatever Snow Leopard DVD you prefer onto a HFS + formatted GUID USB drive . I usually first create a IMG of the DVD , but it should work in one shot . Watch for restore errors - you may need the Disk Utility menu command Images - > Scan images for restore ... before restoring an IMG to the USB drive . 2 ) <URL> the USB drive by selecting it in Startup Disk or using the command line . It 's not that hard to make a bootable image and far more secure to DIY . It also avoids the need of downloading commercial software from the internet . Happy media shifting all ! If you simply want a bootable thumb drive , just install OSX onto that volume - turning off all the extras you may not need . You can have your USB on one side and the USB install disk on the other to make your bootable drive ensuring all the Air drivers are on your USB bootable drive ( which is often an issue when using another install 's image - sometimes the drivers are not all there on older builds of the OS ) The best trick I have when you do n't have enough space on USB to create the final updated version is to stage the bootable image by install first to a 25G partition on an external hard drive . You can finish installing with lots of free space on the HS , run all the updates newer than your installer ( 10.6.8 for example ) , make an admin account , install the tools and apps you need . At the end of the process , you then thin out the things you do n't need . <URL> or <URL> will show you all the large files and libraries . You can safely get rid of a lot of iLife and the associated Application Support . WhatSize has many options to strip out unneeded files , localizations and PPC code . Once you have slimmed down the bootable image on the HD partition , use the trick below to get it on the USB drive . Leopard was a tight fit in 8G but Snow Leopard is lighter and does n't need to diet as much . Edit : Here are terminal commands for rolling your own installer like the ( read-only ) one that ships with current MacBook Air . I have a Snow Leopard DVD as / dev/disk5 and my USB is / dev/disk6 . The man pages for diskutil and asr are helpful if you run into little gotchas or have different needs than a basic one partition drive . $ diskutil list / dev/disk5 # : TYPE NAME SIZE IDENTIFIER 0 : Apple_partition_scheme * 7.8 GB disk5 1 : Apple_partition_map 30.7 KB disk5s1 2 : Apple_Driver_ATAPI 1.0 GB disk5s2 3 : Apple_HFS Mac OS X Install DVD 6.7 GB disk5s3 / dev/disk6 # : TYPE NAME SIZE IDENTIFIER 0 : * 8.5 GB disk6 $ diskutil partitionDisk disk6 GPT HFS + MacUSB 100 % Started partitioning on disk6 Unmounting disk Creating partition map Waiting for disks to reappear Formatting disk6s2 as Mac OS Extended with name MacUSB Finished partitioning on disk6 / dev/disk6 # : TYPE NAME SIZE IDENTIFIER 0 : GUID_partition_scheme * 8.5 GB disk6 1 : EFI 209.7 MB disk6s1 2 : Apple_HFS MacUSB 8.2 GB disk6s2 $ sudo asr restore -- source / dev/disk5s3 -- target / dev/disk6s2 -- erase Validating target ... done Validating source ... done Erase contents of / dev/disk6s2 ( / Volumes/MacUSB ) ? [ ny ] : y Validating sizes ... done Restoring ... 10 ... 20 ... 30 ... 40 ... 50 ... 60 ... 70 ... 80 ... 90 ... 100 Verifying ... 10 ... 20 ... 30 ... 40 ... 50 ... 60 ... 70 ... 80 ... 90 ... 100 Remounting target volume ... done $ sudo bless -- mount / Volumes/Mac \ OS \ X \ Install \ DVD \ 1 -- setBoot Note that the USB drive was renamed to be the same as the installer and the mount point in / Volumes has a space and a 1 tacked on the end .
You can view all your past workouts ( per day ) on the iPhone Activity app ! It gives you all the same information you see when you save the workout on your watch . You can also view past workouts in the Health app ( Workouts data in the Fitness section ) .
end question
start question
How can I change the Apple ID associated with an iPod Touch ?
You might find <URL> to be helpful for changing the Apple ID on your phone . To summarize , go to " " click on the old Apple ID " " and enter your own Apple ID .
You can set that up , but not on the device . There 's no interface to more complex recursion rules in the iOS calendar app . If you 're synching with iCal on a mac , you add the event to iCal and go into the " custom " recurrence settings , and it 's easy to have it repeat every two days . Sync your device and bob 's your uncle .
The unresponsive iPhone/iPod Touch home button is a known problem . I had an iPhone which started with the same problem as yours . At first the home button worked with just a soft touch , and from any angle . Then it started to work only with a hard press and not at all from certain angles . Finally , it either completely ignored presses , or responded to a single press as if it had been pressed twice ( multitasking bar appeared ) . It was still inside the one-year warranty , but I bought AppleCare anyway , figuring that it might recur . I took it to an Apple Store and the guy played with it for a minute , told me I had a faulty device and gave me a brand new iPhone . The home button ca n't be replaced , so they just give you a new one . My advice it to take it to an Apple Store if there 's one nearby , or if not call Apple and report the problem . Most likely you 'll get a new , working iPod Touch .
This is included by Apple in the latest iOS . You want to list that network as Auto-Login in the preferences for that network . When you are in range , you first have to go to the Wi-Fi Networks sheet in Settings.app , Press the white > with the blue circle and set your preferences for each network : Auto-Login controls whether the log in credentials are saved , so turn that on . You do n't need to enable auto-join , but it will reduce the taps to re-join this saved network if the device sleeps or is really out of range . Turning on Auto-Login makes the device attempt to load www.apple.com and watches as you enter the wifi credentials needed for whatever web site is used to join the wifi network . Many open public sites are automated so do n't worry if it sets itself up without prompting you at this point .
you will not be able to use that email address as you do not actually own it . All email addresses are owned by Apple , it is reserved for your use at all times , but as you have not been using it it will not transfer . You will need to create a new email , as you can no longer subscribe to MobileMe .
Yes - I had to do this for the same devices : 2G to 4G . I think I just synced the new iPod Touch ( there is no such thing as an iTouch ) with iTunes , and everything went over , but I might have had to restore a backup from the old to the new .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
The iMate was the only converter available on the market . If you do get an iMate , the only thing it will work with these days are keyboards and mice . It internally converts ADB keyboard and mice commands to USB keyboard and mice commands , so it will just make your ADB mouse and keyboard look like a USB mouse and keyboard to the computer , no drivers required . In ~ 2001 there was a driver for the iMate that would actually configure it as an ADB bus the computer could see , that way anything with real ADB drivers could use it just like a builtin port . That driver has not been updated in years , and Apple dropped all ADB support from OS X , so at this point USB emulation is the only thing it does . Not that there were many ( any ? ) interesting ADB devices that were supported under Mac OS X anyway .
I would try to fix it , sell it , or recycle it . In that order . Try looking into fixing the iPod if your up for the task , since like you said there should be nothing really wrong with it other than a super dead battery . Probably the only thing you would need to buy to fix it is a new battery and a few simple tools to aid in opening the case . I recommend looking at <URL> from iFixit . Once you fix it , you tremendously increase its value and make it a better candidate to sell to people who do n't like fixing things themselves . A 20GB iPod still holds its own in 2012 for playing music , and there are a lot of people who would find this device useful , and hence the parts as well even if you do n't fix it . Its worth much more than most small electronics things going to be recycled . After fixing it or not you could try to sell it on eBay , a yard sale , flea-market , Craigslist , etc. . Working today March 16 , 2012 its worth about $ 50 USD and for parts about $ 10 according to recent eBay completed listing prices . And again if you do n't fix it you can still try to sell it for parts . However if you do n't fix it that may not be a good idea if you have personal information still stored on the iPod , eg address book , photos , etc. . Because you will not get a chance to erase it . But if your not worried about losing any personal information from the iPod then by all means you can just sell it as is without having to break it open . And lastly if you just do n't want to deal with it anymore than just getting rid of it . Check into your local responsible recycling options , you may be able to simply drop it off at a nearby retail store or community waste disposal location that accepts electronics waste . Contact the people who take away your trash and see what their options and recommendations are . If your in the USA you may find the following <URL> from <URL> useful .
Here is the visual comparison of Apple TRRS plug and a standard TRS plug . On the top you can see a 4-pin headset connector . A headset connector needs to be using the same TRRS standard , or it will not function properly if at all . On the bottom you can see a 3-pin headphone connector . Any headphone connector will work fine . Standard 3.5 mm jack stereo headphones have a 3-conductor configuration of TRS ( Tip , Ring , Sleeve ) . The pinout for these connectiors is : Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground . Connectors for headphones with a mic have an additional ring which results in a 4-conductor TRRS configuration ( Tip , Ring , Ring , Sleeve ) . There have been different TRRS standards : The original OMTP configuration , which was created by Nokia and has a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Mic , Ground . AHJ ( American Headset Jack ) with a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground , Mic . CTIA , named after <URL> , which replaced AHJ and has the same pinout . CTIA jacks have improved compatibility to support not only AHJ but also OMTP . CTIA is by default <URL> device manufacturers . Source : <URL> Wikipedia has a short <URL> for which device uses which standard . At last a few points to note : Plugging an OMTP headset into an AHJ jack , and vice versa , will result in the audio-out being inaudible or very quiet . Converters to switch between the two types of headsets are readily <URL> , but do add extra bulk , and may not work reliably with remote control functionality . Apple uses a CTIA/AHJ connector arrangement , but uses a non-standard microphone and volume control signaling method . Simple commands like Play/Pause and Skip however should work across modern mobile devices .
The iPhone 4S has a much more powerful processor and better graphics performance . It 's a dual core A5 processor , whereas the latest iPod Touch 4G still uses the A4 processor . You will see a better throughout system performance and have the ability to play more resource demanding games . If you 're looking for my opinion about what to buy , I recommend you buy the iPhone 4S . After all : You can always use an iPhone as an iPod , but not vice versa .
No . The developer certificate signs the application and any modification of the seal will make the validation fail . Basically any trivial cut and paste wo n't work . You would need to : sign up as a developer and sign your package get permission from Apple to sign kernel extensions if that is the nature of the driver work with the maintainers of the lab to find and install drivers for your hardware .
The option is hidden behind a long/hard press - so not easily discoverable : Tap on the Activity app from your Apple Watch 's Home screen . Swipe left until you see the Move ring . Press firmly on the screen . Tap on Change Move Goal . Adjust your move goal to whatever you 'd like and tap Update . Source : <URL> The calorie goal is the only configurable goal .
Okay so here are the prerequisites for making this work over wifi : Prerequisites : Programs Running : iTunes Services Running : ( Located in Start - > Control Panel - > Administrative Tools - > Services ) Bonjour Service Apple Mobile Device Service wifi : iPod connected to wifi and so is your computer iTunes Issues : If you have all of the prerequisites above set , and on your iPod you enter ( Setting - > General - > iTunes Wi-Fi Sync ) and you find the Sync Now button is still disabled do the following : In iTunes click edit - > preferences Click the Devices tab . Click the Reset History button . Now if you look at your iPod Touch again the Sync Now button should now be enabled . ( found in the <URL> )
I find that 's Apple Safari behaviour.It use iPhone UA to get Mobile Webpage , that have Apple Touch Icon in link rel .
There is no way to reset your Apple ID security questions online after the Mat Honan hack and its aftermath . I was able to reset my security questions by calling Apple Support on the phone , provided I could remember at least one out of three . However if you ca n't remember any of the three , you might have trouble .
You can edit any icon by right-clicking ( control-clicking ) the application , choosing , and dragging the replacement icon over the original icon at the top of the window that appears . You can also copy and paste the image you 'd like to use as an icon , <URL> . This works for files or folders you 'd like to change the icon for .
If you 're using Windows , you 're basically locked into using iTunes to manage your content ; some people do n't like iTunes . Syncing non-media content is weird , too . There is n't a unified sync system . I sync calendar via Google Calendar , notes via SimpleNote , and general files with Dropbox . Some apps only sync with your computer over WiFi , which is a hassle for me at work where the wireless network is not set to permit this . Sync is really important for the iPod Touch because it 's nice to have a lot of your data at hand all the time , but it 's a pain to type it in manually because it 's so small . You ca n't easily update podcasts on the device . I could n't sync for one week one time and had to update each episode by finding it in the iTunes store . It 's really smooth , so if your hands are greasy it 's easy to drop . Mine has handled drops well . I 'm glad I use plastic screen protectors , though . These are the most potent drawbacks I could come up with . I have n't found any comparable devices that solve these problems any better , though . Non-phone smart devices that fit in your pocket that are n't iPod Touches basically do n't exist now ; there are some Android devices in the works . I 'm delighted by my iPod Touch and absolutely recommend the device .
Found it and putting it here for reference , simply hold the home and power button down for 10 seconds ( ignoring the power off slider when it comes up ) then keep the home button pressed down and release the power button . This needs to be done while connected to iTunes . At that point iTunes will offer to restore it .
An iCloud account , iTunes account and Apple ID are all the same thing . Apple just refers to them a bit inconsistently . You can ( and typically should ) have a single Apple ID for all of them , unless you specifically need to separate them out . Account " Types " iCloud Account Typically refers to the Apple ID that is used for iCloud services , such as backup and syncing documents and settings between apps . This is set in Settings → iCloud → Account . iTunes Account The Apple ID that you use to purchase downloads from the iTunes , iBooks and App Stores and what syncs your iTunes Match songs , if you use that service . It 's set in Settings → iTunes &amp; App Stores → Apple ID . It 's important to note that your purchases are linked to your Apple ID ( although music is now DRM-free ) , and are not transferrable to other Apple IDs . So you should be sure to make all your app , video and music purchases on a single Apple ID to save yourself future headaches . iMessage Your Apple ID is also used for iMessage . Set in Settings → Messages → Send &amp; Receive . Using Multiple Accounts You can be signed in to different accounts for each of these services , which can be useful if , for example , you want to have a single family account for iTunes purchases , but keep your iCloud and iMessages separate . Other Information Apple has a few support pages that are helpful for untangling all the intricacies of the Apple ID : <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Is there a ( non-jailbroken ) iPhone app that works like Android Lock ?
No , there 's no official , Apple-approved replacement for the lock screen . If you really want to use Android Lock , you must jailbreak and then install it via Cydia . Un-jailbroken phones can only do what Apple allows , which is to run one app at a time . Android Lock is different because what it does is to modify the basic system of the phone , which Apple does n't allow . And that is the reason why such apps or modifications are only available on jailbroken phones ( through Cydia , the jailbroken appstore ) .
One solution I 've come up with may be to convert the PDF document to individual JPG images , then sync those ' photos ' via iTunes . They can then be viewed individually or as a slide show . Caveats are : limited resolution once iTunes downsamples the photos for syncing slideshow stops once you zoom in or manually disrupt it : ideally would like it to automatically continue ( hoping there is a better slide show app to do this ... )
Have you checked out pkgbackup on cydia ? It has worked for me .
These apps might be of interest : <URL> <URL> <URL> According to OffMaps2 <URL> , maps of New York , Maine , New Hampshire , Vermont and parts of Canada are available . Hope that helps , and enjoy your trip !
To date , it is still not possible to edit song metadata on an iOS device , nor it be recommended if it was possible . Songs you get from sources directly onto the device ( Spotify , GrooveShark , iTunes Store ) all contain correct information . If you have damaged metadata inside media you 've acquired elsewhere , look into software that will clean it up before syncing it over .
<URL> for iOS Prompt allows you to remotely <URL> into another machine . Without jailbreaking , there is no way to use Terminal to access your file system . However , I 've found that if you do jailbreak your phone and want to use Prompt as a Terminal , you can set it to SSH to server and authenticate with the <URL> . <URL> for iOS This app does basically the same thing just a little differently . By default it allows a VNC connection for screen sharing , but it has different add ons that you can purchase that allow SSH , <URL> , and <URL> .
What about Cobook ? <URL> There 's a mac app and an iPhone app AND it 's free !
Cydia 's <URL> does exactly what you 've requested . As far as I can tell , it exists since April 1st : New Tweak in Cydia , App Stat , shows you your app usage statistics , frequecy of use , use of time and recent use . Supports IPhone , IPod Touch , IPad running IOS 3.2 or later . Free on Cydia Search for it .
The app can do that can do what you want is <URL> . You can drag &amp; Drop files from desktop to desktop and get and push clipboards from and to other computer . The best set is to have 2 monitors ( having the remote desktop fullscreen-ed ) , so that you can stare at the two computers at the same time . If you do n't , you will have a window with the desktop of your second mac . Another advantage of this solution is to you only have one keyboard and one mouse in front of you . And you can also put the second computer away from your desk . You just need to have it connected to you network .
Oddly , the app I favor the most is <URL> due to the elegance , simplicity and design . It is fairly forgiving for novices but the middle ground is very level so as to allow you to improve without getting totally destroyed . If you have a decent strategy , you can get a lot of play in the middle ground as long as you do n't make whoppers of mistakes . I say oddly because it does n't have many bells or whistles to " teach " the game - lacks opening books , training modes , post game analysis or export functionality . It has beauty and simplicity and I find myself actually playing it because it 's gorgeous and I learn more when I play more . <URL> seems to be stronger for learning , but is not nearly as pretty and I 'm not serious enough to want to play it over Deep Green . It has fabulous end game support , databases , move puzzles and hints . It also exports the games and has a discount on the Mac version so you can take your analysis to the computer which probably makes this the best learning program . You can preview the engine and the feel of the UI <URL> to get a sense of the program . The iPhone app plays a lot like the mac app . It 's a 30 day demo and it 's not as massively strong as Fritz and some of the really bonkers engines out there .
I recommend <URL> . It has apps for Mac OSX , Windows , iPhone , iPad and yes Android . It can sync all between these different platforms . By the way it 's free .
Borrow an old iPhone and <URL> by following the setup directions on iOS 9 or you could use the <URL> to attempt a dry-run on the Android side . That way , you can actually use the new OS for a bit and if it 's unlocked , you could swap SIM cards between the two devices . If you do n't mind the cash outlay , you could also buy a new phone outright and educate yourself on the return policy if you 're mostly sure the change will be for good .
You do n't need to use a separate application . You can share wi-fi without any app . Go to System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing : You will be prompted to enter a network name and a password ( if you choose to ) . It does also require you to have a hard-wired Internet connection . ( If you are wondering why my sharing checkbox is greyed out , it 's because I do n't have a hard-wired connection ) You can also click on the Airport icon in the menu bar and then click " Create Network ... "
Garageband can do this . Open a new ( or existing ) project and add a new " real " track with no effects . On the bottom edge of the window you ´ ll see a LCD-like window which usually displays the current time or measure in the track ; depending on which version of Garageband you ´ re using , you can now either use the up - / down-arrows to switch to the tuner ( tuning fork symbol ) or click on the tuning fork symbol directly to select the tuner . Every sound that is picked up by your Mac ´ s microphone will now be displayed as note ( with off-pitch )
<URL> should help you . From the above-linked splash page : The Word Counter ... gives immediate feedback on your productivity as a writer . encourages you by showing you your daily output . gives you clarity about your daily goals . keeps a complete history of your daily achievements . assists with finding your perfect writing environment . counts what counts : words -- the ultimate metric for writing .
Most of the third party iPhone ones are mostly safe most of the time . However there is n't a good way to tell which ones are n't . Here is a teardown of an <URL> and a <URL> . I say most of the time since some of the safety issues are only problems if there are faults . But in a poorly designed one , faults can cause fire and/or shock . Also poorly designed ones can get hot , which might be a problem in an enclosed space . I personally would avoid anything that claims to be from Apple but is priced lower than theirs . That demonstrates the seller is willing to lie , so they are questionable to begin with . A reputable seller would n't try to pretend they are selling Apple chargers .
You can not set the application priority ( to remain in the RAM ) . Your system automatically manages the resources based on current usage . However , depending on your Reminders settings , and what external ( Internet ) accounts you use , it might take a moment for it to check those accounts .
The only visible change that jailbreaking does is the installation of the cydia app on your homescreen . what i would suggest is to go into cydia and get an app called Poof to hide the cydia icon . You can follow the guide here <URL> , or you can hide it in a folder with a bunch of other apps .
It looks like <URL> . Is OS X the backups seems to be stored in the following location ... ... but I do n't think you can change that location .
The answer is no , Safari does not provide any built-in functionality or shortcut ( to the non-existing functionality ) to restore the last closed tab . The only functionality that Safari currently offers is : Reopen last closed window Undo Close Tab ( as part of the Undo event chain ) The first does just that , re-opens the last closed window , including all the tabs that were open when it closed . The second works as you already know , it only works if it 's the last thing you did , or you have to undo other things which is the caveat you noted above . Looking at Safari Extensions , there are a few Tab managers around , however none of them specifically note their support for Tab Undo 's except <URL> and this functionality was removed from the product for Safari 5 ; as the developer notes that Safari 5 now provides this as part of the Undo chain Developing a solution for this while it 's not trivial , is n't something that is going to be impossible as Apple have done most of the hard work . :D Safari provides event propagation to Safari Extensions , and the particular one you would be interested in is <URL> . Of course determining a method of distinguishing between the CloseEvent 's for Windows ( with each Tab receiving its own CloseEvent ) and singular Tab CloseEvents ... well there 's the hard work .
end question
start question
How can I install Snow Leopard on my 2011 Mac Mini Server ?
Short answer : no . The i7 in the new 2011 Server model does n't support anything less than pretty much the original OS . Sorry dude . I wanted to do the exact same thing .
The short answer on how to enable sshd from the terminal is doing this : The long answer on how to execute daemons or scripts on startup is a bit longer . There are two ways ( that I know of ) to do this : The first one is through Startup Items , which are executed at the final phase of bootup , these are deprecated and should n't be used unless you need compatibility with MacOSX v10 .3 or earlier . You can take a look at how to do it this way in <URL> . The second one is launchd , a replacement for init and rc ( among others ) . This is the recommended way and it 's a bit trickier than just putting a script on a folder like in Linux . There are several ways to launch daemons , the preferred way it to launch them on demand ( so they will be ready to launch but you wo n't see them in a ps for example , unless you are using them ) . The explanation is a bit lengthly and the list of options is long , you can take a look at the documentation <URL> . You can take a look in / Library/LaunchAgents for examples , if you have Chrome installed , there is a file in there for the Google Software Updater called com.google.keystone.agent.plist , that runs at load time , you can start there .
From a few minutes of searching , it looks like Ubuntu 11.04 would be a good fit and match most of your requests , and what you were looking to use as well . 64bit would be needed to reach more than 4GB of RAM . And there is a 64 bit version , although ( to me ) confusingly named AMD64 . <URL> . There are also Magic Trackpad drivers available , and a good writeup available on the <URL> . I also found a good site <URL> . This should be rather similar to your instal . Finally , in most cases , choosing the right Linux distro is also a feel and how you like the install . But in accordance with your list of support , it looks like Ubuntu will cover this .
I would start with the built-in VPN software on the mac . You basically add a new network interface of the VPN kind . Here 's the quick tour : Open System Preferences select Network add a new VPN interface to match your server settings The Finder help menu has several articles worth reading - the top 5 hits show how to understand , set up , use as well as basic troubleshooting . Apple 's support site has more in-depth information if you need to learn how to set up a VPN server ( it 's geared to the OS X server , but the concepts are the same on any server and once you get the terminology , the button location wo n't matter so much )
You can install any drive , provided it 's of the 2.5 " variety ( notebook disk ) . <URL> can purchase ( see image below ) , or you can readily just buy the flex cable ( PART # 922-9560 ) . I purchased mine from <URL> and a few dollars shipping/handling . The iFixit kit includes the logic board puller , but I used two small screw drivers , which work just the same . If you have no qualms about spending the extra dough for what is likely a one-time affair , then by all means . Do note that you can pick the grommets from Home Depot ( they are 1/4 " grommets ) on the cheap . I had to shave a bit off to make them thinner , but they work beautifully . The screws are standard " <URL> " . 8mm M3 with a 0.5 mm thread . The ones provided in the iFixit kit are not OEM , but just aftermarket screws that meet the dimensions . In any case , the grommets and screws are not entirely necessary as the limited room stops the drive from thrashing around . And since the unit is likely to stay stationary , not a large concern . It depends entirely on the level of craftsmanship you possess . <URL> has a thread outlining the process , and that can be supplemented with <URL> . One thing to note , after you 've installed the drive , reset the <URL> to ensure a problem free experience . I had data on my secondary drive and saw my boot sequence lengthened to minutes as a result . Resetting the unit 's PRAM did the trick . The entire process took me about 1 hour , but it all depends on your level of proficiency . While adding the second drive is possible without removing the logic board , you will not be able to align the screws with the chassis ( and will crush the grommets in doing so ) . You 'll also wrestle 3x as long trying to get the SATA cable connected . There is literally not a mm to spare inside the unit . If you want to do the job right , you will need to take the mini apart and systematically install the drives one at a time so the holding screws line up with the grommets , the rest is a cakewalk .
You 're five major system updates back from El Capitan , and Apple has made a lot of changes to code , file arrangements , database structures , network connectivity etc. in the meantime . Apple usually does a pretty good job of clearing away the old to make way for the new , but things do slip through . I recently killed a few prefs files from 2007 that Migration Assistant kindly transferred to my 2014 mini . Invisible files and such often gets copied too . iTunes data structures have changed significantly , with loss of artwork or metadata upon upgrade being fairly common . Apple is pretty good , but they 're not infallible . With a jump of that many years , I 'd go for the clean install , followed by thoughtful installation of needed Apps , and manual transfer of docs , pics , music etc. . That way you 'll end up with a thoroughly modern System rather than a System that also contains a hodgepodge of used or unused pieces dating from an earlier decade .
If it 's a 2005-2009 model then NO ! You absolutely can not plug directly from a AC power source to a computer that does not have a built in transformer power supply , which the Mac mini 2005-2009 model does not have . The AC current must be converted to DC current first and that is what the Mac mini 's power supply does . Starting in 2010 the Mac mini used a built-in power supply and the power cord does not use a power brick like in previous modles , it plugs directly from wall to computer .
There are several choices based on the fact that any UPnP server should also be DLNA compliant : Free ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( easier to install with <URL> ) Paid ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> The bold ones are directly mentioned to be DLNA servers .
Yes , I too am a developer using a mid-2011 Mac Mini ( with AMD Radeon GPU ) connected to two Samsung displays one display connected using HDMI cable which comes with the Mac Mini , and another display connected using an Apple DisplayPort to VGA cable which I had to buy separately .
Try pinging the broadcast address . This should work as long as the Pi got an IP from DHCP and responds to ping . First , open up a terminal and run . This should give you the info for your ethernet interface , if not , just use and find it yourself . Make a note of the broadcast address . In my case , it 's 192.168.2.255 : So I 'll run the command . Do the same with your broadcast address , and hit CTRL-C to stop the ping once you have some results : The broadcast is intended to go out to everything on the network . Everything that hears it should respond . In my case , I only see my IP and my router 's - I guess it did n't bother passing the request on to my other machines , but you 're directly connected to the Pi so you should see it there .
I ended-up installing macports and using it to install rpm ( ) It took about an hour to compile all the dependencies , even if I do have 4 cores and a SSD .
Here 's my copy , hope it helps . <URL> PS : I 'm going to remove it next week , so be quick !
The Synology NAS supports a Network Recycle bin , but only for SMB volumes . Therefore if you want to make use of it from your Mac , you need to access the share via SMB and not AFP . This can be enabled from the under . The Synology by itself fully supports Time Machine , and can act as a Time Capsule . Most of the documentation on the Internet mention the Network Trash and Time Capsule option in the same place , but as an Windows/Mac comparison type description . The manual for DSM does not mention Network Trash for Mac either , only for Samba . I am not entirely sure where you read that the Synology supports this feature for OSX , since I could n't find any reference to it in the way you described . OSX , unlike the previous OS 9 , does not support a of any kind , and I am not aware of any plans to bring this feature to OSX . Therefore it also ca n't be activated from the OS layer . I suspect the naming was changed from Network Trash to CIFS Recycle Bin in the new DSM by Synology because of the confusion it has caused .
No - macs ship with one license to Lion - for that mac . If you buy an upgrade outright , that applies to all your macs .
Booting from an install media such as a Snow Leopard install DVD will not boot to your desktop . Instead , it will boot to the OS installed on the disc and whilst this is OS X , there 's no Finder for you to move files around . However , the disc does come with Terminal and you can use it to copy your files to somewhere else , another disk , etc. . There are numerous tools that you can use in Terminal to copy files , but for individual files/folders as mentioned in your question you can simply to copy them . Then , using the disc , reinstall Snow Leopard and copy your files back once booted back ( using the now-available Finder ) .
Yes , there is way . And since you 're already jailbroken , it 'll be so much easier . Just open up Cydia and search for <URL> . It 's from the ModMyi repository , which comes preconfigured with Cydia . It allows you to select the DNS server to go through when using a cellular data network , and it does it right from the Settings app .
Aqua Extreme comes with a separate package called Remove Aqua Extreme which restores the default user interface . If you download the latest Aqua Extreme from <URL> you will find the Remove Aqua Extreme package inside the installation bundle . Run this package , it should restore everything .
The App Store only distributes one version of each app . Xcode 4.0 is no longer available as Xcode 4.1 replaced it . If the author of the software wishes to keep an older version on the store , the new version has to be uploaded as a different sellable item . In this case , Apple did n't choose to leave both . You can <URL> by joining the paid developer programs . Last time I checked , Xcode 3 was available with the <URL> . It runs on Snow Leopard - but it does n't look like you can buy Xcode 4.0 anymore without a paid developer account - it might not even be available to the developers - you might ask before paying money if you really need 4.0 and only 4.0 .
wrt the issues above : Yes you can . Very effectively . Just be aware that your Django sites wo n't integrate into Server App 's GUI unless you restrict yourself to python 2.7 ; Apache mod_wsgi ; no virtualenvs . Not if you wish to proxy to a wsgi server like Gunicorn , because when you save the Website 's panel , OS X Server will sanitise some of your essential Apache directives and you will lose control over how your Django static files , for example , are served . OS X Server has a particular execution and configuration model in mind and it does a good job of managing websites that accord with that model - but at the cost of flexibility . I know that people successully deploy Django using Apache 's mod_wsgi , but that comes with severe limitations . As in 2 . The section of the plist for your web app in OS X Server 's directory is all-or-nothing . e.g. . You ca n't Include a in the right place for it to have effect . Not with Apache mod_wsgi . No . OS X Server 3.2.1 uses Apache 2.2 . Proxies via UDS was not included in Apache until later . ( Perhaps you could have Apache proxy to Nginx ( via a TCP port ) and , in turn , proxying to Gunicorn via each Django site 's own UDS ... if you thought there was a compelling reason . ) Yes . The approach I took : Put your application 's Apache file in OS X Server 's directory where it will be left alone by the Server app . Forget about trying to use the Server GUI and ' binding ' web apps to sites through its Advanced settings window . A nice idea but ... Use virtualenv ( wrapper ) to set up the different python and package versions for a more future-proof approach ... OS X Server 4 on Yosemite coming up ! Example code : . conf for Django virtual server This is adapted directly from the file that OS X Server generates from its GUI with these main differences : is off by default . prevents the Alias directive from being ignored . I found that , when including this directive using the Apple-recommended web app . plist section , the Included lines were in the wrong place to have the desired effect . your SITENAME and PORT : LaunchDaemon plist for Gunicorn wsgi server your SITENAME ; REVERSED_SITENAME and PORT : Snippet from the OS X Server 's Shows virtualenv paths specified by the virtualenvwrapper environment variables Snippet from the Fabric automation file Shows : The target paths - the directories where your configuration files will end up ; The commands to activate the Django site in the final steps in deployment
According to <URL> : You 'll need a working OS X partition and you 'll need to reboot with Option + Command + O + F . It is a bit complicated so follow the link for more info . I personally would go with Ubuntu on your Powerbook . Follow <URL> for info on how to install . Although the guide is for a Power Mac G4 , it should work with your Powerbook .
end question
